mr president, let us ask ourselves, when we set goals for renewable energy and energy efficiency, whether we have the infrastructure to make this energy revolution happen. we have the example of germany, which set its serious ambitious targets and then it turned out that it did not have the necessary infrastructure. in terms of interconnection, you know that a lot of countries are below the 10 percent target, and they're very large and important countries for the european union, like poland or the united kingdom or spain. this was noted in the third energy union report. we also need to set more ambitious targets for interconnection, because without good interconnection we will not be able to pursue our serious energy efficiency and renewable energy targets. and as far as luxembourg consuming a lot of electricity, not only google, but amazon consuming a lot of electricity in luxembourg, but the reasons are not only electrical, but sometimes also tax, but for that mr. thurmes can ask mr. juncker for more details.
madam president, i would like to thank mr cozzolino for his work and dedication in this report and commissioner crețu for being with us tonight. this union was built out of the ruins of europe but was made possible with the strong will of each and every citizen of that continent. the time to pay back that honour and trust has come. the only tool that the european union has to reach each and every citizen, each and every village and city in europe is our regional development policy. this is why i believe, after 2020, we should continue to support this policy in order to make peoples’ lives better in every possible way, in every possible city and village. we are facing a crisis which is scaring people just as much as any economic or natural disaster. i am talking about heavily depopulated areas. we have to pay attention to this and we have to support citizens in these areas – just as we should support all areas – to keep them there and encourage citizens to come back to those areas.
author. – madam president, i am here to put the question on behalf of the committee on regional development (regi), because of the real interest among the members of regi on the implementation of these extraordinary special measures which have been taken because of the commission proposal adopted on 17 july 2015 – a legislative proposal to amend the common provision regulation in respect of specific measures for further financial assistance to greece. this was a very strong reaction after the greece crisis, and at that time we believed, together with the commission, that we could support greece in the efforts of the country to get out of the crisis and succeed in the efforts to complete and implement the successful projects. the goal of this proposal was two-fold: to provide additional pre-financing for 2014-2020 cohesion policy operational programmes under the investment for growth and jobs goal and for programmes financed from the european maritime and fisheries fund in greece, and secondly, to allow for the ceiling for the cumulative pre-financing and interim payments to be 100% and to increase the co-financing rate for 2007-2013 operational programmes for the convergence and regional competitiveness and employment objectives in greece to 100%. in the european parliament, the decision was taken to deal with this revision on cpr under the simplified procedure (it was the decision of the regi committee), so we adopted this proposal as quickly as possible in order to allow a greater stimulus effect to make sure that the greek authorities could make full use of european union funding available for the cohesion policy under the previous financial period. the regi committee appointed a standing rapporteur to follow the implementation of the new regulation – later on he will take the floor here in the debate. but on several occasions, including during a joint hearing organised by the committee on regional development and the committee on budgetary control on the implementation of the priority projects list initiative in greece on 4 december 2017, members of parliament expressed their regret at the near absence of communication between the commission and parliament on the implementation and performance of these cpr amendments. the lack of reporting information made available by the commission and the greek authorities on the result of the special measures adopted for greece should be emphasised. more specifically, there has been no reporting on the real effects on the application of the maximum cofinancing rate of 100% to the eligible expenditure of greek operational programmes for the growth and regional competitiveness in employment objectives. in this respect, the first part of our question will be: what conclusions does the commission draw from the report provided by the greek authorities in may 2017 on the implementation of the specific measures in greece? and further on, how this mechanism, which is an extraordinary mechanism, has helped further progress in the priority projects in greece in their implementation and progress of these 181 priority projects. and on how infrastructure investments and european union structural investment funds have contributed to the improvement of overall competitiveness of greece. it is very important to implement today these discussions to hear the answer of the commission, because we made these together to support greece in the country’s efforts, and now we are very interested to see how our measures have been implemented in reality in greece and what the results are after these extraordinary measures.
in writing. at the end of last year, the leaders of the member states assessed the negotiations on the uk's withdrawal from the eu and decided that there was sufficient progress to move to the next phase. i do, however, retain all my concerns about what the final outcome of brexit will be and especially the treatment of the bulgarian citizens of the island. in saying this, i am fully aware that when it comes to protecting the rights of bulgarian citizens, they will be formally as well protected as the rights of all other european citizens, whether french, german or polish. however, we already know some of the worst practices of the english institutions. public opinion in the country since 2007 has been extremely negative towards bulgarians and romanians. we must be very careful in the negotiations and extremely firm when it comes to the specific guarantees to respect the agreed rights of our citizens.
mr president, i supported this report because i believe that macro and regional strategies are the key to ensuring the prosperity of european citizens living in the alps, the baltic, the adriatic and the ionian seas, the danube region or the mountainous regions of the balkans. i think it is extremely important that the report highlights aspects of the european union strategy for the danube region. as a european born and raised in the danube town of silistra, i feel that the regions are not getting enough visibility despite the potential they have. river transport, crossborder infrastructure development and joint tourism products are just some examples of policies that can help both vienna and budapest, vidin, ruse and silistra to develop better. the development of a strategy for the mountain regions of the balkans, such as the rhodopes and the stara planina, is equally important. i hope that the recommendations of this report will be taken seriously by the european commission and that it will propose and support policies and initiatives for the implementation of the danube strategy and develop macro-regional strategies for the rhodopes and other mountain ranges in the balkans.
thank you, mr chairman. dear prime minister, welcome to the country. for the first time, a bulgarian prime minister is here in the home of european democracy. bulgaria is heading the council at a difficult time for the european union: the migration crisis, brexit, populism, uncertainty around our external borders. i am convinced that bulgaria will not only be a good mediator, but also a good leader in finding solutions to the current challenges. the accession of our country to the eu 11 years ago was the biggest event in bulgaria's recent history. we belong to european civilization, but the communist dictatorship had for decades separated us and much of eastern europe from the european family. the path traced by our renaissance leaders, who wanted bulgaria to be equal to other european nations, has much to do with the vision of a united and free europe. the history of the balkans, especially the 20th century, has opened deep ideological wounds between the peoples of our region. european integration is the best medicine to overcome these historical and ideological divisions and to heal open wounds. i therefore welcome your decision, mr prime minister, to make the western balkans one of the main priorities of the bulgarian presidency. we must close these wounds, and not compete for the title of the greatest, but walk together in the common european home. history teaches us that europe is destabilized very easily through the balkans. just one spark, as you said, just one murder, could set things back decades. i wish the bulgarian presidency and the bulgarian administration success. thank you, and you have our support.
first, to my native bulgaria! mr. prime minister, it's great that you're talking about the future, because most of the bulgarian citizens don't see it. they're losing to the european union at the expense of a handful of people. we're talking about poverty, the dangerous symbiosis with corruption. in bulgaria, this symbiosis is deadly to society. let us not, like mr juncker's european bureaucrats, bury our heads in the sand like ostriches. act with perspective, but we also expect retribution from you, mr. prime minister. the danger is that a handful of oligarchs, notorious at home and abroad, enriched by european funds and privatization, have become moral mentors of our society in the name of the european union. they're done with freedom. it's now or never, mr. borisov! i've always been honest with you. we still don't have a politician or an oligarch in jail for corruption. bandits like ivo prokopyev, ognyan donyev, along with some of your former ministers, are awaiting sentences from the courts for hundreds of millions of public theft. when are we gonna see them in prison? act, because such individuals cannot be a symbol of european values. you promised her a future, and i wish you one. i don't want it to be just a fairy tale.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: dear mr. borisov, i too join in the wishes for success. the bulgarian presidency of the council of the european union comes at a time when europe is at a crossroads. there are important issues on the union's agenda. in addition, bulgaria's priorities also raise other important issues, such as the continuation of cohesion policy as the main instrument against division and disintegration in the union and the european perspective of the western balkans. i appreciate the fact that the western balkans has moved to a higher level of the european agenda, but that alone will not solve the region's problems. the six countries need systemic, political and financial support. to make real progress, they need a clear, written road map. it could be drawn up during the bulgarian presidency, with proposals from the european commission for a deadline of 2025. europe should not worry about the western balkans, but should conduct a policy on the western balkans. only with the integration of the region can we say that we have completed the project of europe as a zone free of ethno-nationalism. but let's not fool ourselves, mr. borisov. these causes can be doomed if you continue to rely on the extreme nationalists in bulgaria and lead europe with them. please fill in the contents of the letter of credit given to you by mr juncker. be a democrat, free yourself from them, free yourself from the shackles of extreme nationalism! do it for bulgaria, but also for europe! i'm counting on you.
for my generation, joining the european democratic family was a dream. the dream became a reality, but somehow we subtly understood that neither democracy nor membership in the european union is an insurance against abuse of power, against corruption. bulgaria was ranked 30th in the reporters without borders press freedom ranking in 2005, and today it is ranked 109th. bulgaria at the beginning of the transition was 9 million, and now it's 7 million. i hope that under the bulgarian presidency, we will have our contribution to make, let alone talk about depopulated areas, let alone depopulated countries. i hope that in six months' time my colleagues in the european parliament will be able to say that bulgaria has been a worthy and effective president of the european union. to the good hour!
dear presidents, commissioners, colleagues, mr. borisov, i congratulate you on being the first bulgarian prime minister in this room! we have a lot of work to do in six months: to change the dublin regulations and protect our interests there; to change the protection of the external borders and schengen - this also affects romania and croatia; to bring in the brotherly macedonia and the western balkans; to reach a fair deal with our friends in the united kingdom and our polish colleagues; to fight double standards in food, income, transport rights, etc. this fight, mr. prime minister, must be waged with intelligence, consistency, tenacity and self-confidence. the self-esteem of the people who built their country 1300 years ago in the balkans and, as they protected it in 717 from the invasion of constantinople, they protect it today. i wish you success, i wish you hard work, which will make us look at each other in the eye and boast about the successes achieved in six months, because this is the will of the bulgarian citizens. congratulations and good luck!
taoiseach. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members again for their interesting questions and contributions. i was asked how we can avoid boom and bust again, and i think there are two things here. first of all, it is ensuring that we do not have credit bubbles again in europe, and the european central bank is best placed to do that. and it is also around fiscal policy: balancing the books for the first year in 10 years, ireland will not have a budget deficit this year. it is about reducing our debt so that we can ensure we have the capacity to borrow again in future if we need to, and it is also about setting up a rainy-day fund – which we have set up – to put some of our budget surplus into, to prepare for a future downturn, which inevitably happens at some point. ms childers asked about the social contract and social europe. i think the best thing we can do to put fire back into the engine of social europe is to build on what was agreed in gothenburg. we actually agreed a really good political statement in gothenburg and i would like to see us turn that into reality by using the proclamation made there to guide european legislation in those areas in the years to come. i am delighted to see we are joined by commissioner thyssen for this particular part of the discussion. to ms harkin, i have to say that i like the idea of a citizens’ initiative. i think it is a good idea. it would be a good example of direct democracy though we would also have to have safeguards because, while one million people is a lot, in the european union of 500 million it is also a small minority. so we would have to make sure that any citizens’ initiative was not a loud minority, but was actually reflective of a majority view, and that is what representatives do best. to be frank, it is our intention to increase defence spending. we are not going to increase defence spending to anything like the level that you see in other european countries, but we intend to do it for two reasons: first of all, because a lot of the members of our defence forces – our air corps, our soldiers, people in our navy – are quite poorly paid. we are now restoring and increasing their pay and, of course, that involves an increase in defence spending. we also need to replace a lot of out-of-date equipment – our fishery protection vessels, some of our helicopters – so, yes, there will be an increase in defence spending, but it something that we would have been doing anyway even if we were not involved in permanent structured cooperation (pesco). on catalonia – one of my favourite parts of the world, and barcelona is one of my favourite cities – i think the only solution is dialogue, and i hope that the central government in madrid will engage in dialogue with the new government in catalonia. mr rangel asked me to reflect on a few things in relation to a single european constituency. he makes some good points, notably that the united states, which is a federation, does not have a single constituency for anything. they elect their president, for example, through an electoral college. but perhaps they should have a single constituency because, on two occasions out of four now, the candidate who got the second highest amount of votes won the presidency. that, of course, is a matter for them. i am not entirely sure that transnational lists would necessarily benefit big countries because i see what is here in front of me – the heads of groups – and i see that a number of the people who are heads of their groups are actually from small and medium—sized countries. so why might that not also happen on a list? but i think we have an opportunity now. the uk is leaving, there are seats that are free, so it is possible to have a transnational constituency without any individual member state losing any positions, and it gives people two votes: one vote for their mep, who represents them in their region, and a second vote for a european party, challenging people to think about those ideas. it is a big challenge and i imagine a lot of people would cast a blank vote the first time round. in time, however, people would get used to the idea. to mr nicholson, i just want to thank you very much for your constructive comments. i concur totally with what you said about the new relationship and also the need to get the executive and assembly up and running. the tánaiste and the secretary of state have already met on this, and i will be in touch with the prime minister on it as well. we really want to drive that forward. finally, mr peterle asked about how we can inspire europeans. perhaps one of the ways we can do that is something i touched on in my speech, which is really to take action in relation to africa, to make a part of europe’s mission to improve africa, to stabilise it, and to make it prosperous in the way that much of asia has become prosperous. that is a way in which i think we can turn a thought into a feeling and really give people in europe a positive feeling about what europe can do. thank you very much again for your contributions. it has been a real pleasure and a real honour to have the opportunity here to speak to the parliament and to answer some of your questions. thank you again. (applause)
in writing. i support the position expressed by mr vardacar on the need for a more democratic europe, but to achieve this we need to be closer to our citizens. i think that the path taken towards a more centralised europe, or, in other words, the federal idea of the european union, is wrong. the many options for reform give us room to think. my position is that within the eu, the double standard must be abolished and, above all, powers must be returned to the member states. we see a growing sentiment across europe of people wanting the institutions to be closer to them. we see what happens in catalonia, but in the end it's normal. people want strong nation states. so the path to reforming the eu is not more, but less eu, stronger nation states. less red tape, more work for the people.
in writing. – as an mep and president of the european movement international, my take on the ‘future of europe’ debate is that we don’t need to rebuild the whole house anew. the eu has a great body of achievements and we need to defend those that are valuable to eu citizens – such as freedom of movement, solidarity of cohesion policy or the emu. but we also need a europe that is able to change and adapt. we have a historic chance to establish a new relationship with citizens, and the wind is indeed in our sails. the levels of support for the eu have returned to those of before the crisis: 57% of europeans today support their country’s membership in the eu, and 64% believe eu membership has benefited their country. in fact, many europeans today are asking for a more engaged eu in spheres like migration management, security and defence and even social policy. the agenda that we set today is an indication of what kind of europe we aspire to – a europe that protects, a europe that offers solutions to its citizens in disadvantaged regions, a europe that has clear and uniform rules for citizens of third countries, an eu that creates stability for its immediate neighbours.
mr. chairman, madam minister, ladies and gentlemen, social media is the new media and that is the reality, whether we like it or not. we live in a time where any post can reach anywhere in the world, to hundreds of thousands, to millions of users in a matter of seconds. the more outrageous, the more improbable, the more imaginary a fake news story is, the faster it spreads. this has been exploited by both hostile propaganda and by aggressive minority communities that consider themselves the bearers of the ultimate truth of the last resort. and in this legislature, there are followers of a modern cultural marxism who are trying to censor and stigmatize those who hold different views. yes, fake news exists, but the answer is not to censor it or to write norms about what can and cannot be written on social media and why it's impossible. it's not about forcibly changing cultural patterns and traditions. the answer to fake news is to tell the truth as quickly as possible, in an organized, calm, and fact-based way. that's what every one of us should be doing.
fake news, especially in recent years, has taken on a global dimension. with the advancement of digital technology and increased connectivity, information reaches every corner of the planet in seconds. it's a powerful weapon that can easily and much more cheaply win the minds and hearts of millions of people. in the geopolitical race, this weapon is being used more and more to achieve political goals. the objectives of this propaganda pressure are to distort the truth, to provoke fear, doubt and division in the european union. the big question is what is our democratic response to such practices. the answer can only be one single truth. any false information must be immediately countered with the truth. so i call on both the european institutions and the member states to invest much more money, resources and people in this response to propaganda and fake news. the examples from my side are directed against the european union, nato and its geopolitical choices. the western balkans are particularly vulnerable to propaganda designed to change public attitudes.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank ms tomc for her report, which stresses that youth employment is, and remains, a top priority at union level. your report, ms tomc, comes at the right moment to take stock, four years into the launch of the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative. as you know, there are two sides of the coin: the policy and the financial support dedicated to young people not in employment, education or training, the so-called neets. setting up the youth guarantee required commitment and political support from member states, building new partnerships, as well as significant reforms of the labour market, education and training policies. back in 2014, only a few member states had fully set up their implementation structures and launched measures to benefit from this dedicated funding. given their budgetary constraints, many member states were struggling to ensure sufficient financial liquidity so that measures could take off. therefore, my first action as a commissioner was to address this shortage by proposing to release 30% of the youth employment initiative resources directly as advance payments to the member states. these efforts are now bearing fruit. since the launch of the youth guarantee, around 11 million young people have received an offer. the youth employment initiative has directly helped at least 1.7 million young people to receive job training or a further education opportunity. in parallel, we observe a strong decrease in the youth employment rate, from a peak of 24% in january 2013 to 16.2% last november. there are now two million fewer young unemployed in the union and one million fewer young people who are not in employment, education or training. i believe that the combination of the youth guarantee, the youth employment initiative and the european social fund (esf) has contributed to this remarkable improvement. together, they have created new opportunities for young people and acted as a powerful driver for structural reforms in all member states. however, i agree with you that our work should not stop here. youth unemployment is still far too high in many member states, and the figures diverge, from 5% in the czech republic or 6.6% in germany to around, yes, 39% in greece, and also, still, more than 30% in italy and spain. inactivity among young people, as well as untapped potential, remains a reality across the union and, as your report and also the report of the court of auditors highlight, not all young people have benefited equally from these initiatives. let me stress a few aspects that we will further concentrate on. we need to step up efforts to reach out and to support the low-skilled and those with fewer opportunities. we know that young people with disabilities, those with a migration background and young parents with caring responsibilities remain much more at risk of becoming neets. i agree with you that we have to expand the pool of good-quality offers. we need to ensure that they really help young people to get a solid foothold in the labour market. for the second phase of the youth employment initiative’s implementation, until of the end of the current financial framework, we will pay close attention to this quality aspect. the commission is already helping member states to improve the quality of their job and training offers and to design outreach measures. this is the case for the ‘find-bind-mind’ outreach method that certain member states already use successfully to ensure that the most disadvantaged and vulnerable young people are given special attention and receive the personalised assistance they need. and let us not forget that the esf can also be used. it can be used as an additional support for an integrated approach to these young people. it can also invest in the reform of services and the setting up of the so-called one-stop-shop approach, offering young people a single contact point for all formalities and assistance provided by several services – social, employment or education. in order to offer policy guidance to member states and stakeholders, we adopted a proposal for a european framework for quality and effective apprenticeships. we are also working to increase the supply, quality and image of apprenticeships through the european alliance for apprenticeships, and we will continue our efforts with the social partners on promoting the implementation of the quality framework for traineeships. as regards monitoring the youth employment initiative progress, we continue providing guidance on a regular basis and requesting member states’ feedback on data collection and monitoring. in 2019, we will report to you and to the council on the main findings of the member states’ evaluations of the youth employment initiative, which they are currently carrying out. the commission will also continue to support mutual learning and dissemination of good practices among member states. last october, for instance, we organised a youth guarantee learning forum that brought together youth guarantee policy coordinators from member states and youth employment initiative managing authorities. the aim was to disseminate good practices, take stock of the lessons learned so far and come up with proposals for the future. your draft report confirms that the youth guarantee and the youth employment initiative are, and will remain, important instruments for fighting youth unemployment in europe. as the court of auditors pointed out, we need to reach out further to the neets far away from the education and labour market, and ensure the quality of the offers provided. the commission and the member states are committed to improve further the outcome of these schemes. finally, let me thank parliament once again for supporting the increase in the youth employment initiative resources until 2020. this additional eur 1.2 billion will allow member states to support around one million more young people until 2020, in the member states and regions most affected by youth unemployment.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. – madam president, i am happy that this debate is coming just a few hours after the presentation of the bulgarian presidency and its priorities. one of those priorities is youngsters, and it is good to have youngsters as a priority because we have to fight for each and every one of them. they deserve it. no matter what crisis is going to hit us post-2020, no matter how hard it will be, no matter how impossible it looks, we have to find enough resources to provide ourselves with the tools to fight youth unemployment. and it is not just empty talk. it is obvious that our youth employment initiative is working well and delivering results. for example, in my own country, the country i know best, the youth unemployment rate dropped almost 5% in just few years, and this is how we are going to proceed. so we are obliged! youngsters deserve our support and the next multiannual financial framework should find enough resources, no matter which country decides to leave this union, to provide those resources.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on culture and education. madam president, ms thyssen, access to the youth guarantee scheme is selective. this shows the evaluation of the implementation of the youth employment initiative by the member states. the data show that the programme mainly benefits educated and highly skilled young people. people with disabilities, those with lower education and the long-term unemployed are left out of these statistics. in my country, bulgaria, the situation is similar. the scheme benefits almost exclusively young people with secondary and higher education at the expense of the low-skilled. young people registered with the employment offices are rather rare. so we need to think about alternative solutions. one of my proposals as rapporteur for the committee on education and culture is the creation of a single information desk. it will be possible for young people to receive information on various training, traineeship or job opportunities in one place. every young person, regardless of their economic and social situation, should have information and access to this type of programme. ensuring equal access will be the cornerstone of the initiative's success.
madam president, i also wish to congratulate the rapporteur for all the work she has done on this file. youth employment training and empowerment have always been among alde’s priorities, and i am pleased that the youth employment initiative has so far helped 1.4 million young people who were not in employment, education or training to get a job placement, an apprenticeship or a traineeship. while acknowledging this achievement, i also need to underline that there is much more to be done in order to enhance and improve the implementation of the programme and ensure that it successfully complements the national youth employment initiatives, in particular by reaching out to those at risk of exclusion. the assessment clearly shows that the pace of implementation of the youth employment initiative does not correspond to the one initially foreseen, taking into account the various options for implementation. on the basis of results obtained, specific measures should be undertaken in order to better respond to the specific needs and issues in each member state.
madam president, i would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur, mr zwiefka, for his excellent report. i am glad that many of the amendments i proposed have been incorporated into the final text of the report. i now hope that, despite the european parliament's consultative role on this issue, our voice will be heard by the council and our proposals taken into account. i believe that our proposals will contribute to better protecting the interests of children in procedures for the establishment or withdrawal of parental responsibility and in cases of divorce or separation of their parents, as well as in cases of child abduction in the union. the key to this reform is the strengthening of cooperation between the central authorities of the member states. equal treatment of the parties in divorce proceedings and in the withdrawal of parental responsibility is also an important issue. in international couples, each party should be fully informed in a timely manner of all measures taken in a language that it fully understands. the most important point of our proposals, however, concerns the coherence of the child's upbringing, his ethnic origin, religion, culture and language. in particular, in cases of long-term accommodation of a child, the authorities should always consider the possibility of accommodation with relatives and family members, even if they live in another country. it must be ensured that the parents and relatives of the child, irrespective of their place of residence, can have regular personal contact with the child. i consider that the 'brussels iia' regulation must ensure that the sovereignty of the member states in respect of national substantive law in the area of parental responsibility is preserved and that it does not impose legal relationships in that area which are alien to the member state concerned.
the european year of cultural heritage 2018 is a sign of a change in mentality. it is high time we realised that for europeans culture and tradition are extremely important and we cannot compromise on this anymore. at a time when countries are experiencing financial difficulties, the first thing they do is cut the budget for culture. this vicious practice must stop. according to the latest eurobarometer data, more than 80% of european citizens consider cultural heritage to be important for their region, country and the union. let's not forget that europe is visited by millions of tourists every year precisely because of its rich history and culture. i hope that the publicising of this issue will not be over in 2018, but will open a serious debate on the funding allocated to culture in the next multiannual financial framework. unfortunately, bulgaria, which has officially taken over the presidency of the european union, is one of the few countries that does not plan to specifically fund cultural heritage. it's a shame you missed your chance.
in writing. – i warmly welcome this year’s european year of cultural heritage. undoubtedly, our cultural heritage and history are powerful agents which could reinforce a sense of belonging in eu citizens to our common european space and identity. looking from this perspective, i believe that the initiative will promote cultural diversity, intercultural dialogue and social cohesion in a time when racism, xenophobia and nationalism are threating our eu integration. in the long term, the european year of cultural heritage will help build closer relationships between different regions at eu, national, regional and local level. last but not least, the european year of cultural heritage could be a golden opportunity to teach future generations about our traditions and cultural heritage. so let us seize that opportunity – let us not miss it.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, unfortunately, this case involving human rights activists again shows us that china is systematically violating a wide range of fundamental human rights, including freedom of expression, association and religion and minority rights. therefore, i call on the chinese authorities to end all cases of human rights violations and to release immediately and unconditionally all human rights defenders, activists, lawyers, journalists and petitioners who have been detained for their human rights work. the chinese authorities must immediately stop harassing minorities in the country, which for years have been under pressure. as a matter of fact, very recently, together with other colleagues, we nominated ilham tohti for the nobel peace prize because of the continuing crackdown on the uighur minority and his efforts to protect the rights of his ethnic group. china is an important strategic partner of the eu but the country has to respect and protect the rights and freedoms of its citizens who think differently and have opinions about government policies. last, but not least, i call on the eu to put the protection of human rights defenders at the top of the agenda of the next eu-china dialogue on human rights.
mr president, i fully support the council's decision to conclude the marrakesh treaty. this is an important step towards making printed publications more accessible to people with visual impairments and other visual impairments. this landmark copyright act will help nearly 285 million people around the world to access a wider range of works more easily. accessible format materials are extremely expensive to produce, and the european union is a leader in this regard. in this sense, the conclusion of the marrakesh treaty by the european union will have a strong positive social impact globally. access to education and culture is a basic human right, not a luxury you can hardly afford. something that we take for granted will finally be available to people with visual impairments and dyslexia.
mr president, i support the recommendation to conclude, on behalf of the european union, the marrakesh treaty to facilitate access to published works for blind people, persons with visual impairments or other disabilities who are unable to read printed materials. it is essential to do everything possible to minimise the barriers that make life difficult for people with these disabilities. access to published works, access to education, access to culture continues to be one of the tasks and goals that we have to defend here in this room. of course, we must not forget that sometimes in the pursuit of progress, it is possible to create a burden on rights holders. i was pleased to see that the concerns were met with great respect, a serious approach and we ended up with a carefully considered and well-structured recommendation. i therefore reiterate my support for the conclusion of the marrakesh treaty.
as a shadow rapporteur, i voted in favour of the report by mrs zwiefka on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters and matters of parental responsibility and on international child abduction. while i am a strong advocate of eliminating excessive unnecessary red tape, especially when it affects the most vulnerable members of our society, i recognise the importance of subsidiarity and other mutually agreed legislation in relation to family law issues. they're sensitive, at least by nature. and the competences of the member states should not be disregarded. so i strongly encourage better, broader and more comprehensive cooperation to provide children with the best possible care, legal protection and procedural protection.
mr. chairman, there's been a significant drop in youth unemployment rates. however, the evaluation of the implementation of the youth employment initiative should be based not only on quantitative but also on qualitative indicators. the european court of auditors' report reveals that it is difficult at present to give a realistic assessment of the results achieved. this is mainly due to the lack of monitoring systems and mechanisms to follow up participants leaving the youth guarantee scheme. the youth employment initiative should reach and benefit not only highly skilled people living in big cities like sofia and plovdiv. they have easier access to information on career development opportunities. young people in small towns and those in disadvantaged situations should have the same opportunities. this is the biggest breakthrough of the youth initiative. we need to work towards overcoming this trend.
mr president, i voted in favour of the implementation of the youth employment initiative in the member states. the last decade and the economic problems that accompanied it have led to a sharp increase in the number of unemployed. young people are especially vulnerable to this. the youth unemployment rate in europe increased from 15% in 2008 to 24% in 2013. the answer is to create a youth guarantee with a budget of €6.4 billion for the 2014-2020 programming period, whereby member states commit to ensuring that young people receive a good job offer. continuing education, apprenticeship or traineeship after they have become unemployed and left the formal education system. i support this initiative, but at the same time i do not agree with the commission's excessive interference with the competence of the member states, which binds them to decisions that should be taken at national level. that is why i voted against this report.
mr. chairman, mr. commissioner, as it became clear, the reason for today's call is the dispute between the european union and norway over the svalbard fishery. the right to equal access to resources there is guaranteed by the non-discrimination clause in the 1920 treaty of paris, to which most of the member states of the european union are party. however, eu trawlers and fishing vessels engaged in this fishing activity in svalbard are prevented by the norwegian authorities, despite having valid european union permits. recently, the latvian vessel that the other colleagues were talking about was detained for months and fined €200,000. commissioner, this is about jobs, this is about the economy. it is quite obvious that the commission has not done enough to ensure that the permits and the bilateral relations with norway are guaranteed, so what we are asking you to do is to do more to ensure that norway recognises the european permits and guarantees these jobs.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the european union's budget will be reduced over the next seven years and in this sense it is extremely important that the accelerating innovation report is adopted at this very moment. i'd say it's about time. there is a temptation, when budgets are cut, to cut funding for innovation in science, and i hope that this report will send a strong signal that funding should not be cut in this area. we must pay particular attention to the geographical differences, especially in the distribution of these funds in the countries of central and eastern europe. the commission should continue to finance projects in the field of electric and hydrogen mobility, both for cars and buses and for industrial needs. let me also point out that we must enable better management of these funds at regional and local level, not just at european and national level. finally, let me thank the rapporteur, mr buzek. it was an honor to work with one of the representatives of the heavy artillery in this parliament, mr. yeji buzek.
in writing. – when it comes to the future of europe, we should give a strong political signal that western balkans are a key element to build a better eu. together, we share the european values and the idea of long-lasting peace, stability and, consequently economic-growth. i welcome president andrej plenković’s statement that europe needs to reassert itself as a role model that will inspire people across the world to build a better future. it is not conceivable without a clear commitment to improve connectivity in the region. besides the value derived from cooperation at the official level, good neighbourly relations will accrue further benefits by working together, cooperating in the fields of culture, education, business and many others. there is still more to be done on the level of civil society initiatives, where efforts would have a direct impact on citizens. future generations need to feel closer to each other, in particular in the regions of the western balkans, with its societies that have been through conflicts in the past. prioritizing the balkan region in the eu agenda is crucial to ensure preconditions for increased youth mobility and thus help further educational, employment and cultural co-operation opportunities in the balkans.
madam president, i supported the proposal for a regulation to abolish geoblocking because this practice is contrary to the freedoms of the internal market. the elimination of discrimination on the basis of geographical origin will help to increase cross-border trade. in addition, bulgarian and european consumers will be able to shop online more easily and will have more choice and opportunities to benefit from lower prices. bulgarians rank twelfth in the ranking of the most discriminated citizens by online merchants. the offering of different prices based on geographical location is pure discrimination, which we must put an end to at once. with the adoption of the regulation, my fellow citizens will be able to shop online at more affordable prices, book holidays and use their credit cards abroad without any problems. last but not least, i share the view that at the same time we should not create an undue burden on business. we must not forget that smes are the engine of the european economy. i think we should create incentives for their development, not obstacles.
madam president, i supported the report on accelerating clean energy innovation because i believe that renewable energy and good regulation of the internal energy market can ensure security of supply and energy efficiency in the european union after 2020. at the same time, however, i am deeply concerned by the high rate of energy poverty in the european union, which, according to some estimates, affects one in ten citizens. the country most at risk of energy poverty in the european union is my bulgaria, where every third household falls into the 'energy poor' category. a significant proportion of these households are elderly people on low pensions. the european union's clean energy plans must take this factor into account and help these people by investing in renewable sources and energy that easily and cheaply reaches the most vulnerable.
mr president, commissioners, we cannot but congratulate the commission on its decision today and on the start of this process. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i would just like to remind you that this process began with the signing of the historic treaty of good neighbourliness with the fraternal republic of macedonia. the european union must be completed in this part of the continent - there is no doubt about that. of course, after the necessary changes and measures, the accession of the western balkan countries will complete the process of building the european union - i repeat - in this part of the continent. the processes in - i repeat - our brotherly republic of macedonia are particularly gratifying. of course, all candidates must meet the membership requirements that all other countries have gone through and resolve any disputes with their neighbors. this is particularly true for the republic of serbia, for example, which, in addition to choosing which world it wants to belong to, must really start respecting the rights and legitimate interests of recognized national minorities on its territory, especially in the western bulgarian peripheries.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome the presentation of the strategy for the enlargement of the european union to the western balkans. after a period of stagnation in the development of relations between the european union and these countries, the strategy sends a strong signal that they are not forgotten and have a clear european perspective, but that everything depends on them. what you said about no guarantee of the date is extremely important. but even without full european integration of the western balkans, the project of peaceful european unification will remain unfinished. this is one of the reasons why bulgaria and the bulgarian presidency have made the need for a clear european perspective for the countries of the region a top priority. one step towards this is to ensure the connectivity of the western balkan countries, which is in the interest of both the citizens of the european union and the citizens of those countries, contrary to what my colleague said a moment ago: transport, energy, education and digital connectivity. and i hope that both commissioner gabriel and bulgaria will succeed in finding such a roadmap for reducing roaming in the western balkans. the balkans have many historical wounds that can only be healed by european integration. it's the only medicine that can prevent them from reopening. in this context, i welcome the signing of the sofia-skopje treaty. the protests we are now witnessing on the streets of thessaloniki and athens, as well as such signals from quasi-nationalist forces in skopje against the attempts of the government of mr tsipras and mr zaev to find a solution to the name dispute, are not in the interest of the citizens of the region. given the strong support and the specific dates for the start of negotiations, i hope the parties will have the courage to find a common solution.
mr president, the new eu strategy for enlargement which has been presented today is another step on the long path to bringing the western balkans into the european family. i appreciate the fact that the topic of the western balkans is at a higher level on the european agenda, but it is not enough to solve the problems of the region. in order to make real progress, the countries need a clear road map, and the period of the bulgarian presidency of the council of the eu is the right time for this. the 2025 accession date proposed by the commission for two of the countries is an appropriate timeframe. however, i do not believe that this will have a positive impact on the region. on the contrary, there are historical contradictions in the balkans which can be solved only with the full membership of all six countries in the region. the idea of putting countries at different speeds is not good, and could undermine the fragile peace in the region. europe should not worry about the western balkans. the people of the region deserve eu membership. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, i welcome the new commission strategy on the western balkans enlargement. it is important not just for the countries of the region but also for the european union itself: without providing a credible prospect of full membership for all the countries of the western balkans the eu global role will not be credible, because this is our region, this is our first commitment. we need to invest more, both politically and financially. yes, it is a difficult process because enlargement is a joint effort. you need two to tango, and we are all aware of the efforts which have to be made by the candidate countries. but, at the same time, there is always an alternative that we should not forget, and the alternative is embracing nationalism and populism and creating rivalries and hostilities again. where there is a will, there is always a way, and last year the republic of macedonia made tremendous progress towards realising that european perspective. i will quote nelson mandela: ‘it always seems impossible until it is done.’ so let’s do this process.
mr president, mr hahn, the future enlargement of the european union towards the western balkans will mean more security and stability for the union, it will mean a stronger and more united europe. but the admission of the western balkan countries does not depend solely on the will of the union. the countries of the western balkans have a long and difficult road ahead of them. they must have the political will to undertake decisive reforms, respect the rules and values of the european union and meet the criteria for membership. their path to brussels is through deepening regional cooperation and developing good neighbourly relations. the key moment for the region is also the strengthening of ethnic and religious tolerance, freedom of religion and belief. the candidate countries must put the fundamental values of the european union: tolerance, diversity and mutual respect on the agenda. for its part, the european union must accept the fact that the future of the western balkans lies in the union. the european union is committed to encouraging and encouraging these countries to carry out the necessary reforms, to assist them in improving their transport, energy, communication and educational structures. the european union must clearly and unequivocally state to the western balkan countries that in the near future, if they fulfil the membership criteria, they will be accepted into the union. it would be a grave mistake to give the impression to the inhabitants of these countries that their countries will be perpetual candidates. for this reason, the european integration of the western balkans should be a top priority of the european union, not just a priority of the bulgarian presidency.
mr president, commissioner, today we are discussing the open door for the western balkan countries to join the european union - something that we considered unthinkable just a few years ago. what has changed is that the european union has gone through many different crises. the important thing is that they have made us realise that the role of the european union as a global actor is highly contested even in our closest neighbourhood. i am pleased that the bulgarian presidency is once again focusing on the western balkans - this common, but somewhat forgotten, european interest. i welcome the fact that the enlargement strategy does not make empty promises to the western balkan countries, but at the same time recognises that the european union has a political commitment to the region. the prospect of potential membership can be a driving force for reform and for improving stability in these countries. let's admit that the european union has its own interests in security, in immigration, in bringing these countries together. the western balkans perspective should therefore be a common european objective. i also welcome the fact that the european commission is committed to a digital agenda for the balkans. technology and digital skills are the sector with the greatest potential in catching up economies in the european union.
in writing. the western balkans eu accession strategy opens a wide window of opportunity for these countries, which they should make the most of. fifteen years after the thessaloniki declaration, the western balkans are returning to the eu enlargement agenda with the clear realisation that without them the european project is incomplete and there are gaps in european security. a stable and secure eu is only possible with the western balkans integrated into it. the strategy opens the door to enhanced cooperation with the western balkans, to accelerate their accession with a clear horizon until 2025. six flagship initiatives and dozens of concrete measures will help make this perspective irreversible, but first it must be the choice of the peoples of these countries for their european future. the prospect of accession will undoubtedly accelerate reforms in the countries, encourage more people to support the historic choice, help to resolve the many disputes between the countries and heal the wounds of past conflicts. the priorities of the bulgarian presidency of the council of the eu for the western balkans have moved the european political space. the momentum must be sustained with concrete steps by each side, with irrevocable commitments by the eu, to turn the western balkans into a region of peace, prosperity and calm.
madam president, we need a more balanced approach on the status of human rights in turkey. misunderstanding and bad judgment of the facts could create a rather negative picture of turkish society. in order to have a proper eu reaction to the events in a neighbouring country, we need to take into account the real situation there and the reasons for it to emerge. parliament should avoid strong condemnation of a country which is one of our closest partners, both in economic and political aspects. recently, we have started to forget turkey’s enormous efforts in dealing with the migration crisis and its role in providing asylum to millions of refugees. despite the fact that this is organised just based on a statement by the eu and turkey, it contributes effectively to the protection of the external borders of the union. this is visible in south—east europe and particularly in my country, bulgaria. the positive results have been recognised many times by representatives of the commission who are directly involved in the process. that is why we must show greater respect for our neighbour. soon, a formal eu—turkey meeting will be held, where we expect many of the contradictions to be overcome. at the same time, there are some proposals for the suspension of the accession negotiations. in this regard, questions arise. what is our goal? what kind of effect do we want to achieve? the only result would be the isolation of turkey and pushing it in another direction. we need turkey and turkey needs us for the security of the whole region and the european union. the aggressive tone of the discussion is not a productive one. i call for a more balanced approach and proposals.
madam president, commissioners, for the last four years we have been saying in this chamber that turkish president erdogan is becoming a dictator. a dictator who doesn't respect human rights, a dictator who crushes human rights, a dictator who meddles in the internal affairs of neighboring countries. a dictator who continues to occupy cyprus, a dictator who continues to provoke greece, a dictator who is trying to interfere in bulgaria's internal affairs, including through his attempt in recent days to extort bulgarian citizenship from two million turkish citizens. today, that same dictator is waging war on the territory of a neighboring country. this is an invasion of a neighboring country, the syrian arab republic. this is an invasion, this is an invasion. ladies and gentlemen, it is high time that we put an end to the hypocrisy we see among our colleagues from the left, the left, the greens and so on. erdogan is a dictator who violates human rights. erdogan is a man who clearly demonstrates why turkey has no place in the european union. this erdogan turkey should be subject to financial sanctions and restrictions. these are the rules and he must be made to understand that he has no place in the european union and that he must be punished for his behaviour.
mr president, the eu must put its full support behind reaching an agreement at the talks between the venezuelan government and the opposition being hosted by the president of the dominican republic. to that end, first the eu must reject in unequivocal terms the totally inadmissible threats by the us president and his administration to launch a military intervention against venezuela; second, call for an immediate end to us-imposed financial sanctions, since starving the venezuelan economy of its foreign currency earnings risks turning the country’s current humanitarian crisis into a full—blown humanitarian catastrophe; and, third, urge the representatives of the opposition to return to talks with the government in a joint effort to reach agreement on the upcoming presidential elections. the latest polls show that, as of today, fully 50% of venezuelans consider that hugo chavez was a good president. the one and only way to overcome the deep polarisation of venezuelan society is renouncing violence in favour of negotiations towards an agreement.
madam president, i voted against the proposed mandate for the composition of the european parliament for the next term of office because i believe that the text as it stands is a cause for concern because of many of the unclear aspects surrounding its innovations. i also find the proposed distribution of seats in the new parliament discriminatory, although the population in certain member states such as the netherlands, france and spain is growing, but this is largely due to net migration from countries such as my own bulgaria. it should also be borne in mind that the number of votes from each member state is actually relatively constant and if there are changes in the number of members of the european parliament, there should be a proportional increase for all, including my country bulgaria. i call on the european commission and the council to take these factors into account when discussing a proposal for the future composition of the european parliament.
madam president, the topic of this discussion – the consequences of rising socio-economic inequalities for european citizens – is central to overall european union policies. the drastic statistics on inequalities, surpassing any imaginable degree of sustainability, are by now more than well known. but what are the driving forces and, above all, the policy responses? as for the reasons, the aim of maximising short-term profits has led to a corporate model based on price competition and avoidance of obligations, be they social or environmental. in addition, it has led to downward pressures on workers’ and producers’ pay and on labour and environmental standards, and to companies paying as little tax as possible; with ever greater political power in favour of policies preserving and safeguarding the present system. the european union’s main tool for reducing inequalities between and within member states is cohesion policy, which we must endow with political power, human resources and financial needs, ensuring it becomes the lead priority in the post-2020 multiannual financial framework (mff). this means that european funding for cohesion policy must increase. the new cohesion policy framework needs to support, in particular but not only, the poorest european regions. priority emphasis must be put on social investment. national co-financing should not be taken into account in deficit calculations as part of the stability and growth pact, and grants ought to remain the standard form of financing. furthermore it is crucial that citizens become actively engaged in shaping the policies that influence their daily lives. this means gaining citizens’ support for transforming the eu into a fully fledged social union – a union of the people, by the people and for the people.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this report presents the perspective of the european parliament on the financial activities of the european investment bank (eib) in support of the eu policy goals. it has a broad scope, describing the bank’s activities in the areas of the main policies: accountability, financial operations and communication. the macroeconomic impact of the bank’s activities is visible when assessed at its cumulative investments; in 2015 in 2016 we were up to 2.3% eu gdp growth and 2.25 million jobs by 2020. in order to speed up the economic recovery in the union and to help certain economic sectors and geographical areas to catch up, the report welcomed the development of extended european fund for strategic investment and calls for further efforts to avoid geographical imbalances. the results at the end of 2017 show that the total investment related to efsi approvals have reached the level of eur 257 billion. while the implementation of the investment plan for the time being is intact, we expect better results from efsi too, with its eur 500 billion. at the same time, we are concerned that the five biggest economies in the eu received 54% of the total loans granted in 2016. while the information in the form of investment per unit of gdp could be misleading, we insist on further territorial distribution of funds, including as regards the efsi. the eib’s impact in the implementation of key public policy areas can be monitored through the results of investment in the key areas, for which purpose the eib should continue to define its monitoring indicators. the eib needs to further develop its risk culture in order to improve the effectiveness of its interventions with regard to the contribution to eu policies. while the potential beneficiaries of financing are generally not sufficiently aware of the bank’s products, there is a need for better information and a policy of inclusiveness.
mr president, commissioner, the benefits of civil society are undoubtedly many and varied, and it is therefore important to support and promote organisations that defend fundamental human rights. civil society organisations in some countries that promote and defend the rule of law, democracy and the fundamental rights of equality and tolerance are finding it increasingly difficult to gain a voice and to form legal structures. these problems are also highlighted in the latest report of the eu agency for fundamental rights of january 2018. just as human rights need civil society, civil society needs human rights protection to fulfill its mission. the challenges facing ngos in some eu countries are related to the shrinking space for dialogue between civil society and the authorities. this problem needs to be heard. the european union must support and protect civil society within the union but also in third country candidates. we must support these countries to stabilise their legislation and to put on the agenda the primacy of fundamental human rights, which facilitate the formation and functioning of civil structures. democracy is the heart of our society. let's not ruin it by suppressing the voice of the people! the problems of our complex society must be brought to the forefront and the solutions put in the hands of the voters.
mr. chairman, of course nature must be protected, the people of puglia must be consulted, there must be full participation of civil society. there's no doubt about that. however, i would like to inform you, colleagues, that every year, every winter, we in the balkans - in bulgaria, romania, greece and croatia - wonder whether there will be gas or not, what the relations between russia and ukraine are like, whether the gas pipeline will be stopped, whether it will not be stopped and what will happen. this is hurting our economy and the economies of these countries - austria, hungary, ukraine and italy. let's be realistic -- we need more sources of gas, and we need a source for our industry, because i'm assuming that the people in this room don't feed on solar energy and don't eat only organic food. we have an industry, and for that industry, we need a carrier of energy. for this energy carrier, we need to separate the sources. anyone who opposes this pipeline is working for the interests of a foreign northern state, and that's a little strange. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – yes, i am in favour. we need more sources, we need more pipes than one from russia. that is true.
in writing. – the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia (icty) was a united nations court of law that examined and prosecuted crimes committed during the bloody conflicts in the balkans in the 1990s. since its establishment, it irreversibly changed the landscape of international humanitarian law and international jurisdiction. тhe tribunal was unique because it gave the victims an opportunity to voice the horrors they witnessed and experienced. the court was supposed to demonstrate that no one was above the law, and that every person would have to answer for his actions, regardless of his position in the society. over the last 25 years some 161 people have been charged with crimes and 151 faced trial, including high-ranking persons such as radovan karadzic, ratko mladic and slobodan milosevic. the death by suicide of slobodan praljak has overshadowed the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia’s final verdict. the court has been heavily criticised by nationalists in serbia, but the truth is that justice has prevailed and after 25 years the court will cease to exist, but its impact will remain.
on behalf of the s&d group. ladies and gentlemen, today's report is a very important step for beekeeping in the european union. all of the more than 600 000 european beekeepers and beekeepers must receive adequate support and funding for their care. pollination is a basic function of bees and an environmental service that should be rewarded. in the new cap, that should be a fact. earlier today, efsa issued a clear opinion on three neonicotinoids. they harm bees and are one of the major causes of bee mortality. i call on the competent authorities in the member states, and in particular in bulgaria, to take these facts into account. imports from third countries are also a serious problem. bulgarian producers felt strong pressure from ukraine and china. european consumers have a right to know what products they consume and where they come from. in this connection, i am pleased that my proposal for country-by-country origin labelling and the percentage of each has been incorporated into the report. the report is a good basis for a new european beekeeping policy, and i will support it.
in writing. – with all european economies performing considerably better, 2018 has been the first time since 2012 that we can focus on upgrading our economic structure – to equip the banking union and the euro area with all the necessary tools in case of a new crisis. it is now time for the economies of the countries of the community to be supported with adequate tools to increase their resilience to future shocks. we want banks to act responsibly and our responsibility as policymaker is to help them by completing the banking union. we must not get complacent and rely on good economic times lasting forever. reaching an agreement on a common financial backstop for the srf, adopting the financial instruments for reforms and meeting the conditions to set up a european deposit insurance scheme must be top priorities for the eu and finalised before the end of the legislative term of ec and ep. it must be clear that the banking union is not an end in itself for the regulators. it is a condition to ensure that taxpayers money is not first in line to pay for banking shocks.
my dear mrs. president, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have discussed and commented on the threat to the security of european citizens posed by the link between islamist organisations, radical islam, and terrorist groups on european soil. over the last few years, we've commented, we've discussed, we've looked at the funding of isis, isis, al qaeda, al nusra, and other similar threats to our way of life. in the course of the war, these terrorist organizations lost over 90% of their territory and many of their fighters in the bloody campaigns for raqqa and mosul. this forced isil to return to its cellular structure, which was formed and developed between 2009 and 2011. we should not take this as a victory, but rather as a small step towards the defeat of jihadism. i have to say that due to the loss of territory and the trade in oil, the islamic state has already shifted its focus to the distribution of drugs and weapons. these goods come mainly through channels from africa and asia. we should note the funding of jihadist groups by the republic of turkey, saudi arabia and other gulf states. we must put strong conditions on the termination of this funding because it is a direct threat to national security for all countries and members of the european parliament.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today's regulation on the definition, presentation and labelling of spirit drinks, the use of the names of spirit drinks in the presentation and labelling of other foods and the protection of geographical indications is an important step towards the development of the sector. i am pleased that my proposal to preserve the linguistic diversity of the union was accepted and that the right to this multicultural diversity will be protected. i am pleased that the commission's initial proposal on the conditions for recognition of a new category has also been revised. the sector of the production of alcoholic beverages is already heavily regulated, so i do not think it should be made any more difficult. geographical indications for spirit drinks are also of great importance. i therefore believe that the legislation on spirits should be as close as possible to that on agricultural foodstuffs and products. this will help the european union as a whole to establish itself on the world market as a defender of local traditions, production and products.
ladies and gentlemen, european beekeepers face many challenges today and it is high time they were addressed. i am glad that we have adopted today's report, because it is high time that our beekeepers were heard. the main function of bees is pollination. this environmental service must be fairly remunerated and direct subsidies for pollination by bees must be introduced in the new cap. a total ban on the use of neonicotinoids, because it's high time that became a reality. the health of bees has been deteriorating since the 1990s, they are dying in many regions, and european agriculture is becoming monoculture. this trend must stop. we are proposing a 50% increase in financial aid for national beekeeping programmes, and that should be the minimum, and that should be done really, really quickly. imports from third countries are also a major challenge. low-quality or cheap copper from countries such as china, ukraine or argentina is choking european producers. the report is progressive and gives fairly sound guidance on the development of the sector.
madam president, it is a difficult name, but you have tried to pronounce it, colleagues, i represent bulgaria and the bulgarian government and i am dissatisfied to hear from you a lot of uncalculated words regarding the bulgarian position. and they are due to the very reason that we have seen now and in the room - most of you have proved that the conversation about this document is political and it is about leftist positions. i understand that some of my colleagues want to play communism and leftist positions, but they simply have not lived in communism. any violence is unacceptable and we are against violence against women, of course, and we will be against it. but clearly there is an ideology in this document, a gender ideology. and those things should be clarified and removed from this document. and no one will object. and it's not just about bulgaria. we're talking about the united kingdom, which is a serious western country. and we're talking about other countries that have doubts about this ratification. so please respect the internal order and the right of every society to regulate its internal order.
in writing. unlocking the potential of digital commerce is all about finding workable solutions for the physical delivery of parcels across the eu. in practice, this regulation is one of the conditions for the completion of the eu digital single market. if smes are to benefit from the opportunity to work with customers across europe, we need to ensure transparency in the formation of delivery prices, a clear choice of suppliers for international shipments and more innovation in the sector as well. territorial and economic convergence in the eu is also directly dependent on services of general economic interest, such as the delivery of parcels. more competition in supplies will enable businesses and customers in more remote regions of the eu to receive quality service at reduced costs. consumers and businesses are often not informed that different delivery options exist. the commission should therefore be able to assess the impact of the measures on the union industry.
mr president, when i look at the statistics of the victims and injured on europe's roads, i no longer think it's a problem or an accident. this is a war, and i don't think we're winning this war. in this context, the training of professional drivers is of paramount importance and directly affects the road safety of millions of people across europe. i believe that we should act now and i welcome the european commission's latest proposal in this regard. however, i do not think we can afford to create additional bureaucracy, additional requirements or financial burdens for a sector which is part of the backbone of the european economy and which affects and employs millions of citizens. on the other hand, we have to solve a number of problems: we have to recognise qualifications certificates in the individual member states. otherwise they lose their meaning. on the other hand, we must ensure that every driver, no matter from which eu member state, meets the bare minimum of requirements and standards, skills and knowledge, so that we can be sure that he is driving the motor vehicle entrusted to him safely.
madam president, low-growth or low-income regions should not be seen as a burden for the member states or the european union. on the contrary, cohesion policy has a very important role to play in enabling these regions and their citizens to become more competitive, more prosperous, and thus more win-win. for this reason, i strongly believe that cohesion policy should be maintained in its current format and budget in the new multiannual financial framework. in my country, we continue to see injustices and a widening gap between the capital and almost all the other regions and cities. to do this, the state needs to stand behind the people of these regions by becoming a guarantor and incentive for low-interest loans and investments: investments in digital infrastructure, investments in the future and new opportunities. there will be no two-speed europe when there are no two-speed states.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – mr president, in order to achieve maximum results through the overall planning process in the eu, the next mff should be embedded in a broader strategy. this long-term vision, covering the whole period of the next decade, is more of a statement of general strategic direction. the mff translates the eu’s policy priorities into budgetary means. eu policies are implemented through a wide range of programmes and, from this point of view, the mff is not a budget for seven years, but rather a collection of resources geared towards accomplishing the union’s main goals. the mff should prioritise support for the common agricultural and cohesion policies, closing the gap between the member states, as well as the emerging policy areas related to security and migration. to provide the resources needed, the system for financing the eu budget should be reformed based on the recommendations of the high level group on own resources. resources have to be spent more efficiently and effectively and create higher european added value. in order to achieve our goals for a strong and more ambitious europe in a rapidly changing political environment, we should increase the mff expenditure ceilings, foster flexibility mechanisms and special instruments and simplify the eu budgetary system.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the authors of the reports on their success in preparing the european parliament with a position, and a timely one, so that we can also enter into negotiations with the council and support the european commission in the expected proposal for the multiannual financial framework. it is essential that these reports pay attention to the need to achieve the 'added value' element of the european budget's investment in the european financial framework. the complementarity and combination of financial lines could lead to greater efficiency and would allow for flexibility in the future implementation of the financial framework. i would like to emphasise that this flexibility can also be achieved by attracting additional private resources and the combination of public and private resources in the future. a clear link between the european semester and the financial framework of the european union would provide the balance needed for future implementation.
) and madam president, demanding more and more from the european union, asking more citizens to believe in it, and at the same time talking about cutting budgets, is like drilling a tank in a car and at the same time expecting it to run forever. let's be honest with each other and with the people who are watching. having a good road, a renovated school and more jobs is not a value only for the new member states. this is something that all people, all citizens of every country in the european union want. and if this is a common goal and a common good, we need common activities. we need good funding for them. the main message from this room today should be that there is no longer an eastern or a western europe, no longer a northern or a southern europe. there is only one europe and that is a united europe. for that, we need strong cohesion. the short-term solution: let's cut funding there because of brexit, where people will feel it the least. and the long-term solution: real own resources that are not dependent on contributions from the member states.
madam president, the exemplary report before us makes the stark conclusion that the current multiannual financial framework (mff) quickly proved its inadequacy to meet actual needs and political ambitions. it was pushed to its limits after only two years. there must be no repetition of the situation post-2020 or the union will further slip into terminal existential crisis. additional priorities, such as defence, should not be financed at the expense of solidarity. today, the commission is presenting its so-called social fairness package. this and the social pillar cannot remain toothless statements. there must be all the necessary resources for, among other things, a real child guarantee – overturning the paradox of a union of riches with children in poverty – and, not least, resources for an upgraded european social fund able to foster social investment by also blending with financial instruments where appropriate and feasible.
in writing. the long-term budget is an important element of the debate on the future of the eu, because we cannot deliver on european political priorities without sufficient and predictable financial resources. the next multiannual financial framework should clearly reflect our priorities. i believe that the share of the overall eu budget allocated to cohesion policy measures after 2020 should be increased, taking into account the major contribution of the european funds to improving the living standards of european citizens and to overcoming socioeconomic disparities between regions. the legislative process for adopting the next mff should be completed before the european parliament elections in order to provide sufficient time for negotiations on eu sectoral legislation and to avoid delays in the implementation of new programmes. the eu should continue to provide financial assistance to bulgaria for decommissioning of decommissioned nuclear capacity in order to ensure effective protection of the environment and public health. no member state can tackle cross-border health challenges alone. the european budget must support member states in tackling health inequalities that undermine social cohesion and hinder european integration, and ensure an effective european foreign and security policy.
in writing. the first important task in reforming the mff is to ensure that brexit does not have a negative impact on the financing of programmes that have proven their european added value. one such programme is erasmus+, which, despite its undeniable success, represents only 1.36% of the total eu budget for the period 2014-2020. it will benefit only four million young people, mainly students, during the current programming period. i am of the opinion that the budget of erasmus+ should be increased several times in the future mff and the programme should be made more accessible, covering not only students but also students, trainees and young people with modest financial means. in addition to reinforcing successful programmes, we will also need funds for new education and skills policies. currently, 70 million europeans lack basic skills and 44% are digitally illiterate. functional and media literacy in the age of fake news is also a big challenge that we have to deal with. if the eu does not invest in the education of its citizens, it cannot expect prosperity.
in writing. – as you know eu-central asia relations are developed under the eu strategy for central asia signed in 2007 and reviewed in 2015. for nearly 11 years this eu strategy has played a vital role in reforming central asian states and making them important partners of the eu. progress achieved in the countries under the partnership with the eu should be saved and build up. therefore, i believe that the eu has to create and implement a new agenda which will develop stronger relations between eu and central asia states through strengthen dialogue and cooperation on important topics for both sides such as human rights, education, development, environment and security, particularly in the context of endless conflict in afghanistan and growing threat of terrorism and islamic fundamentalism in the region. in this context, it is important to note that region’s stability and prosperity can be achieved only through active participation of the eu and its readiness to cooperate with central asia states on common challenges and interests. the new eu strategy towards the region should be based on this assumption.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. – mr president, strong economic governance and better policy coordination between the member states could not be done without the european semester. this year, the process of macroeconomic budgetary and structural policy coordination is particularly important for the union in the context of the preparation of the next mff. in this regard, a real synergy between budgetary and monetary policies should be introduced in order to stimulate growth and job creation as well as to revive investments. ambitious reforms of the euro area governance should be proposed, including the introduction of a special instrument to support the adoption of the euro by the non-euro member states who have committed themselves to adopting the euro. important is the evolution of the european stability mechanism towards the european monetary fund. public and private investment in infrastructure, research and development, innovation and education should be encouraged in order to achieve the goals of budgetary growth and employment policies. most effectively, those goals could be achieved implementing a strong and well-resourced cohesion policy. having in mind the situation with the jobs for young people in the eu, we should underline the importance of the implementation of the youth employment initiative.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on regional development. mr president, madam president, i would like to thank you for your commissioner, madam, i have to ask you to stop. minister, ladies and gentlemen, the committee on regional development in its opinion welcomes the fact that there is a positive dynamic which favours the continuation of the recovery through economic growth, social cohesion, structural reforms and territorial cohesion. we welcome the better focus on country-specific recommendations, expressing concern at the uneven implementation of them in the member states. we underline the important role of cohesion policy in the recovery process as the main investment policy in europe, considering that its interaction with the european semester should be improved in order to increase the additional multiplier effect of cohesion investments and their contribution to sustainable and inclusive growth. there is a need for complementarity and synergies between the cohesion funds, the fund for strategic investments and other community instruments and programmes, which will contribute to the promotion of investment. the country-specific recommendations should better reflect the specificities of the member states. i also stress the role of the structural reform support programme.
mr president, brexit will bring change to the european union for both citizens and businesses. for us bulgarians, as for all europeans, it is important to reach an agreement in the short term that guarantees the rights of citizens so that all these hundreds of thousands of europeans can live without worrying about their future. over the last decade, trade between the uk and bulgaria has doubled to 1.2 billion euros a year. without a post-brexit deal, bulgarian exports to the uk, worth €500 million, are at risk. it is in our interest to maintain this economic relationship at least at today's levels. i'm sure other countries are watching with concern the development of trade and political relations with britain. we must abandon the language of political accusations and look pragmatically at the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, first let me congratulate the initiators of this discussion our colleagues from the edc. a much-needed discussion at the right time. the timing is right because the european commission has put forward its proposals, especially with regard to the mandate of enisa european cybersecurity agency. it's ambitious, it makes this mandate permanent. on the other hand, i'd say you could ask for a lot more. i am very impressed that we are in almost the paradoxical situation where the member states that are first in their cybersecurity prevent the european cybersecurity agency from being stronger. we have member states with 600, some with 1,000 staff in this area. at the same time, the european cybersecurity agency has 50 people, and with this proposal to double the budget, i'm guessing it can go to 100 people at most as capacity. on the other hand, who else could organise the response at european level when there is an attack, a cyberattack on more than one member state? who, commissioner, is currently responsible if we have a 'wan a cry' type attack on twenty member states? or we'll let this issue be decided by each country individually and saved individually. we have at the moment individual member states that have well-developed structures, and there are other member states that are not at all serious about organising their cyber services. the next question that is on the table is the question of standardisation: whether european countries will be able to agree to have their own certificate based on serious international standards, and whether this certificate will be so well opened that it can be used not only in the european union but also among our partners in the united states, india and other countries.
mr president, information and communication technologies not only provide opportunities for the development of society and the economy, but also pose challenges to european and international security. according to a number of analyses, the next security crisis will be triggered by the use of new technologies as weapons against critical infrastructure or even for military purposes and is expected to result in huge economic and social damage. and i'm not just talking about state-sponsored cyberattacks, but attacks by individuals with the ability to do harm. this requires enhanced international cooperation to overcome the effects of cybercrime, cyberattacks, electronic espionage and others. regional initiatives and measures, such as the europol cyber centre, together with technology companies, should deepen the debate within the un on the establishment of an international code of conduct for states in cyberspace, and coordinate efforts in the prevention and investigation of cyber-attacks, including through the exchange of information. in this context, it is of the utmost importance that as many countries as possible, not only from europe, join and ratify the budapest convention on cybercrime. why not even start working on a un convention to fight cybercrime. it's time to realize that cybercrime is real! they also require real countermeasures.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the europas initiative was born almost 12 years ago and was intended to respond to a pressing need of european citizens, namely to provide easy access to the possibilities and means of assessing their skills and qualifications. every citizen needs it, especially when looking for a job and deciding what and where to study. differences in languages, definitions, document formats and assessment and validation methods make it difficult for everyone from students and jobseekers to employers and government institutions. this is not to mention the additional problems caused by the increasing mobility of europeans from the newly acceding countries and third-country nationals. the need for a clear common framework, common principles, common terminology covering all parties is undeniable. this is how europass started, first and foremost as a dossier of documents providing maximum transparency of citizens' qualifications and competences, used on a voluntary basis. from the outset, europass has had clear objectives, which have remained valid: to help citizens effectively present their skills and qualifications in order to find jobs and training opportunities; to help employers understand and assess the skills and qualifications of the workforce; to help education and training organisations to define and present the content of curricula in the most sensible way. no one can deny that europass is one of the european union's most successful and popular initiatives. but while successful, the europas initiative is no exception to the general rule that technological progress always requires change. and not only that the revision of europass should reflect both changes in the labour market and new forms and practices in education and training. it should give people better and easier-to-use tools to showcase their skills and to receive useful and up-to-date information on learning opportunities and the labour market. we are changing europass to provide online services to european citizens, such as the creation of an e-portfolio and skills assessment, the so-called 'skills intelligence'. we are changing europe so that citizens can easily provide information on their skills and qualifications acquired outside formal education and training, for example volunteering, work-based learning, traineeships, self-study. since the changes in europass are binding on all member states, we sought and eventually reached a consensus from the outset to protect national competences on standards for the different qualification systems. we were looking for changes to ensure easier access to europass for people with disabilities and even better protection of personal data. we sought changes that were bold and useful, but without creating an excessive administrative burden for member states and excessive new organisational costs. i'm convinced we've made those changes. i am convinced that in the future european citizens will use europass more easily, more often and even with more pleasure.
mr president, madam commissioner, dear colleagues, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs and thank my colleagues for their contribution to this important file. i am convinced that we have ensured that the new common framework will make the europass services more user-friendly and will adapt them to the needs and expectations of both the users and the providers, while respecting the established national structures and its voluntary basis. in addition, the revised europass services should now be better adapted to digital developments, which is essential in our technologically-driven society. moreover, the accessibility of europass for older people and persons with disabilities had to be improved in order to facilitate and encourage their participation in the labour market and in society as a whole. we will achieve that with the planned modernisation of the tools and expansion of the platform. one of the main objectives for our group was to improve significantly the understanding of learning, acquired not only in formal, but also in non-formal and informal settings, and through practical experiences, including mobility. the methods of teaching and learning are constantly evolving, and we need to ensure that the europass services recognise those developments.
the rapporteur. i would like to say at the end of this successful debate that the beginning of the work on the dossier was difficult. in fact, it was so difficult that there was no end in sight, no end in sight. now is perhaps the time, at the end of this process, to share that much could have been avoided if the european commission's communication with stakeholders had started earlier and been better planned. we could have had a little bolder and a little more decisive renovation of europass. but now, at the end of this debate, i would like to thank everyone for their patience, competence and dedication in working towards the successful renewal of europass. it was a pleasure to work not only with colleague thomas mann as a co-rapporteur but also with all the shadow speakers, some of whom remained in the hall even at this late hour. a huge thank you to the extraordinary team of assistants, advisors, linguists who helped us, kept us from making mistakes and managed to combine all the corrections, suggestions, concerns and hopes of those involved in the drafting of the changes into one. i would like to assure all the colleagues who took the floor that this is what we really wanted to achieve: to make this tool more suitable for young people, for their opportunities and knowledge, to open it up to the more vulnerable and to the elderly and to oblige as much as possible the countries to make europass more visible, even more popular, because indeed over 60 million cvs were made, over 120 million visits to the website, but europass is still not popular enough, there are still people for whom it is not accessible. and above all, i think we have laid a very solid foundation for upgrading and modernising, because the next update of europass will not come for another 12 years, and in my view much, much sooner. we've laid a good foundation for the next audit. and otherwise, i am convinced that tomorrow our work will receive maximum support and a huge majority.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, sylvia costa, who is standing in front of me, for her long-term contribution and work on the creative europe programme. the preliminary agreement reached with the european parliament on 25 january will secure the funding of the european youth orchestra until 2020, which is undoubtedly good news and i fully support this decision. since its creation in 1976, the youth orchestra has repeatedly demonstrated its european added value. it is the only one of its kind in the european union whose membership is entirely drawn from the countries of the union. however, providing these funds until 2020 does not solve the problem of the need for long-term financing and the need to reduce financial dependence on the european union. in addition, further efforts are needed to improve the geographical representation of musicians. my country, bulgaria, for example, is among those groups of countries that are underrepresented geographically. we must also work to increase its popularity, so that there is equal and fair participation of musicians, soloists, conductors from all over the european union. the activities of the youth orchestra will also have to be in line with the priority of the 'culture' sub-programme to attract new audiences among young people. access to culture for young people should be a priority at both european and national level. unfortunately, culture is not one of the european union's priorities, judging by the meager budget allocated to it. in bulgaria, the situation is similar. a survey by the bulgarian association of employers in the field of culture shows that 53% of young people do not attend cultural events because they have no money, 41% do not go simply because there is nowhere to go, and 33% are not encouraged by their parents. the data is more than eloquent. however, borisov's government ruled that young people in bulgaria do not need a cultural check, it is more important to patch roads and build highways. you can draw your own conclusions.
madam president, i supported the report on the reform of the common framework for the provision of better services in the area of skills and qualifications because it focuses on two very important points. first of all, it should be noted that in its current form, europass is mainly used by highly educated people at the expense of the long-term unemployed, the low-skilled and the disabled. one of the aims of the reform is precisely to improve accessibility. every young person, regardless of their economic and social situation, should have equal access to training and employment opportunities. secondly, we all know how important a resume is when applying for a job. skills acquired from volunteering or stays abroad, for example, can prove to be much more valuable to an employer than an additional master's degree. the reform will make the 'europass' cv personalised, meaning that young people will be able to highlight their skills and competences acquired outside school or university.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this very important report 'europass' because it is an important online platform for consolidating the european union's resources on skills and qualifications, self-assessment and information on training opportunities in the european union. with the modernisation of the text, all our citizens will be able to use the extended portal with electronic tools to document and present all their skills and qualifications, as well as their educational and professional experience. the new instrument will significantly simplify educational and professional mobility across europe, which is absolutely necessary. our priorities in the negotiations were privacy, increased visibility of the platform and the highest standards of accessibility for people with disabilities. you'll see them reflected in the final version of the text. it is important that our citizens have the best and easiest tools to showcase their skills and qualifications in the best possible light.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported the report because it proposes the creation of a body defined by a basic act and therefore eligible for funding by statute, and we guarantee its continuation and its subsequent operation. it is important to remember that this body was established in 1976. following the change of the european union's cultural policy in 2014, which was previously supported by the union funds as a cultural ambassador, funding will only be available through 'creative europe'. after a difficult period in terms of finding appropriate funding, we are in a position and at a time when we have the power to ensure the continuity of this body and to embody the full range of cultural diversity that the european union represents.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported the report on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2019 budget because i fully support the view that when the council proposes new political priorities, they should be financed by new appropriations. the creation of conditions for the realisation and development of the potential of young people in the european union should receive substantial financial support from the budget of the european union when programmes are made for them and are a priority. instead, it is becoming a practice to fund any new initiative from existing programmes that have proven their added value. the european solidarity corps is one example. i fully support the initiative, which will allow young people from across the european union to participate in volunteering activities and contribute to socially beneficial causes. this should not, however, be to the detriment of erasmus+, which has proven to be the european union's most successful programme in the field of youth and education.
commissioner, the essence of ms shoidrov's report is the state of gender equality in the media themselves. focusing on the problems in them is an approach that allows for concreteness and public naming in a realm unfamiliar and elitist to many. i believe that the report's proposal for guidelines on the equal representation of women and men in decision-making in media organisations would have a positive effect. but more action is needed to support gender equality in all areas. this idea is also reflected in the strategy for women in digital technology presented by commissioner maria gabriel on 8 march, for which i congratulate her. i agree with the commissioner that the future of europe lies in digitalisation and that tackling stereotypes, promoting digital skills and education will help to tackle the gender gap in yet another area.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have spoken several times in this chamber about the double standards that exist in the european union and in this parliament. these double standards create a different way of life, a different standard in the two parts of the union - the east and the west. a concrete example of this is the attitude of some of my colleagues in the european parliament towards the development of tourism in bulgaria, for example. bulgaria needs, because of its location and natural features, the development of tourism infrastructure. a number of colleagues in this room are actively hindering the development of winter tourism, say in bulgaria in one of the iconic pirin mountains. we're talking, of course, about the rhodopes and vitosha, but mostly about the pirin mountains. it's interfering with the construction of new facilities. when i asked my colleagues in the room, "how many facilities were built last year in germany?" because this colleague is german, "and in the past few years?" she couldn't answer. it's about fifty facilities instead of one. that, ladies and gentlemen, is hypocrisy and double standards. and it condemns the eastern countries to a low standard of living and to migration that cannot be tolerated.
mr president, protein crops must find their place in european agriculture because their dependence on imports is not beneficial from the point of view of nutrition and food safety. i am concerned to hear from bulgarian producers that the imported products are in fact genetically modified and that, although they take all the care to grow them properly, the risk of contamination by gm feed is in fact serious. my country bulgaria has excellent opportunities for the production of protein crops. the peanut as such produced in the sadowo region has excellent qualities and unlike other imported, garden peanuts do not produce aflatoxins. that should be encouraged. european production creates and sustains not only livelihoods but also quality and safe food, and this must be known and protected. the new cap must support all protein crops with specific measures and a stable resource, so a mechanism must be provided for these crops to remain and be used in the 'agriculture' sector in the european union and not exported to third countries without the added value of the european subsidy.
mr president, the un global compact for migration and refugees will be the first intergovernmentally negotiated agreement prepared under the auspices of the united nations to cover all dimensions of international migration in a holistic and comprehensive manner. the global compact is a significant opportunity to improve governance on migration, to address the challenges associated with today’s migration, and to strengthen the contribution of migrants and migration to sustainable development. the un has a leading role in defending and advancing the negotiations and eu member states must unite behind a single eu position in order to promote a common european vision on migration, a vision which will be people-centred and human-rights based, and should provide for long-term sustainable and comprehensive measures for the benefit of all parties involved, building on the principle of a partnership strengthening cooperation among transit and destination countries in the region.
president macron this morning very rightly said that a large part of european citizens are angry. but they are not angry that the european union is too strong, but quite the opposite - that the european union is slow and inefficient and slow to adapt to the changing world around us. it's paradoxical that these same people who criticize the european union are not prepared to give the european union the tools to make us fast and efficient and to adapt to the changes around us. the citizens of europe want us to guarantee their physical and social security. the fears of european citizens are being exploited by various political players who are trying to cash in on this. while economic problems can largely be dealt with by ourselves, issues of terrorism and migration require a global response. in order to find a lasting solution to the migration problem, in addition to a global migration management policy, the focus should remain on addressing the various sources of illegal migration and forced displacement: conflicts, persecution, ethnic cleansing, violence and other factors such as extreme poverty or natural disasters. and last but not least, to deal with the problem, we need to work on protecting the external borders, on common defence, on common intelligence, on information sharing in terms of counter-terrorism, on limiting migration into the european union. we must ensure the very rapid return of those migrants from the territory of the european union who are subject to return and have no right to stay here. and here i would also like to call for giving the high representative, mrs mogherini, much more scope for a common european policy on security and migration.
mr president, the devastating impact that chemical weapons have had in the past, and their recent use not only by states at war but in civil conflicts and by non-state actors, provide the imperative for the international community to work towards complete global elimination of chemical weapons. this attack is a strict violation of international law and a crime against humanity, and is also another try by assad to preserve power. it is the moral duty of the international community to prevent further use of chemical weapons by the syrian regime against its own people. i welcome the fact that the eu is supportive of all diplomatic efforts aimed at the resolving of the conflict, but the syrian war enters its eight year and the situation remains critical. therefore, i call on the eu to mobilise all its diplomatic leverage in the upcoming second brussels conference on syria in order to find a long-term solution to the violence and human tragedy inside and outside syria.
do we have a plan for syria? no, i'm not going. the actions of the united states, britain and france do not engage the european union, nato or their parliaments. i doubt the west made any new friends in syria last night despite the destruction of the chemical plants. our leaders are trying to solve their internal problems through syria. but the war in syria has caused the biggest wave of migrants to europe in a century. only a common goal of peace and democracy, a european union strategy, can turn the syrian people into our ally. this strategy should be the sole responsibility of the european parliament and all its members. the european commission shall execute the decision. we are the parliament, the most important body in the european union. a europe in syria with a common purpose and agenda is a much more decisive force than a hundred or a thousand accidentally dropped bombs. syria must be our top foreign policy priority.
mr. chairman, it is high time we realized that the neo-ottoman turkey of the dictator erdogan is not our ally and is not our friend. it is high time we realised that this country, neo-ottoman in its essence, is a threat to the territorial integrity and security of its neighbours. the neo-ottoman turkey of the dictator erdogan is interfering unacceptably in the internal affairs of cyprus, unacceptably interfering in the internal affairs of the hellenic republic, unacceptably interfering in the internal affairs of the republic of bulgaria. these two soldiers are not under arrest. a person is arrested for committing a violation or crime. these soldiers are being held hostage by the erdogan regime. therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is high time that we in this house, in the council, in the commission, understand that we must do the following few things: we must immediately stop the negotiations for turkey's membership of the european union, because it is not a european country; we must stop the creation of funds, with tax and customs relief; we must make it clear to erdogan that this path that he has taken is not the path that will lead him to the european union.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and thank her in particular for the good cooperation we have had on this report. thank you, of course, and thank you to the other shadow speakers. i consider that the report is balanced and correctly reflects the main points of the european commission's annual reports on subsidiarity and proportionality for 2015 and 2016. i also welcome the european commission's initiatives in recent years to improve the application of these two principles in the adoption of european legislation. it is particularly important today, when the european union is facing an unprecedented crisis in its quest for identity, to create a solid european legislation where the european union can make real progress and add value. the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality must therefore be applied correctly. if we do not do this, we will only be giving arguments to the eurosceptics. national parliaments, in their role as representatives of european citizens at national level, also play an important role in bridging the gap between the european institutions and the public. i therefore believe that we should give them a real opportunity to participate in this process by providing for greater flexibility in the calculation of the eight-week period within which they can send a reasoned opinion. by adhering to these two principles, we will make better legislation that is not subject to constant criticism. only then will we regain the citizens' trust in our institutions and the policies we propose.
the rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on regional development. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the european court of auditors, on behalf of the committee on regional development, i would like to note that, as stated in the court's report, the error rate for the expenditure under the function 'economic, social and territorial cohesion' has decreased from 5,2% in 2015 to 4,8% in 2016, which demonstrates the positive impact of the corrective actions taken by both the commission and the member states. we note, however, that this rate is higher than the average error rate and call on the commission to continue to work with member states to improve their national management and control systems and to continue to use the available legal tools for supervision and prevention to ensure that existing errors are corrected at an early stage. the regi committee is concerned about the delays in the implementation of the programmes for the current period and at the same time calls on the commission to review, within the framework of the 'budget for results' initiative, the effectiveness of the indicators used, which will improve efficiency.
on behalf of the ppe group. ladies and gentlemen, the fifth anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing directive updates european legislation to keep pace with new technological developments that allow criminals and terrorists to finance their illegal activities. it will support the effective fight against terrorist financing in two main ways. for the first time, virtual currencies will be covered by european anti-money laundering legislation exchange platforms between virtual and fiat currencies and virtual currency wallets will have to be registered and carry out customer checks, removing anonymity. the introduction of a definition of virtual currencies also updates european legislation. the threshold for identifying the holders of prepaid cards is being lowered from eur 250 to eur 150, which has become particularly urgent given the use of this type of card for the rental of the car in which the perpetrators of the paris attacks fled. the directive will also have an effect on business by increasing the transparency of the beneficial owners of companies and trusts in order to prevent tax evasion practices. the agreement reached is important not only because it will help the work of the relevant services in investigating money laundering and terrorist financing, but also because it proves to criminals that the european union and the member states are relentless in their efforts to reduce illicit money flows. i therefore hope that the directive will be transposed into national legislation as soon as possible.
mr president, i support the report of my colleague, because the mechanisms it sets out will bring national parliaments closer to the overall integration process. in the spirit of the lisbon treaty, national parliaments are called upon to act directly at european level, whether in liaison with the european parliament or with the european commission. the positive aspect of the report is that it will encourage national parliaments to exercise their european functions to the full, in order to have a direct influence on european policies and to control their content. better interaction and increased exchange of information between members of the european parliament and members of national parliaments could help to improve the control of the european debate at national level and thus foster a genuine european parliamentary and political culture. i also support the creation of an annual european week, which could be held simultaneously in the 27 national parliaments and which should be attended by members of the commission and the european parliament, where european issues are discussed. both national parliaments and the european parliament should cooperate more closely on security and defence policies through joint interparliamentary meetings between representatives of national parliaments and the european parliament. this will enable national parliaments to participate more fully in the consideration of union matters and to be more closely involved in the development of the european integration process.
madam president, i would like to congratulate ms łybacka for putting this oral question today. in past years the bologna process has achieved a greater transparency. it has made information about the european higher education area easily accessible and has increased the quality of education mobility and academic recognition. for all that, i strongly support the implementation of the bologna process, but we are all aware that despite all the achievements, some areas still need development. we should focus on stronger cooperation in order to achieve common goals in relation to the european higher education area, especially developing appropriate legislative frameworks for consultation on its development and creating opportunities for all mobility to ensure the largest possible numbers of students are involved. at the same time, it is important that participating countries facilitate the recognition of academic study periods and credits gained abroad
in writing. – president duterte’s murderous ‘drug war’ entered its second year resulting in the killing of more than 12,000 drug suspects. duterte has responded to increased criticism of his anti-drug campaign by impugning, harassing, and threatening critics of the government and human rights defenders. under unclear circumstances and fabricated evidences senator leila m. de lima has been put in jail while at the same time the un special rapporteur, ms tauli-corpuz, has been put in the terrorist list. unfortunately, president duterte’s rule looks more like an authoritarian regime rather than democracy. under his term the principle of the rule of law has not been respected in philippines and human rights have been constantly abused by the government. in this context, i call on the authorities of the philippines to immediately stop the extrajudicial killings, to prosecute all perpetrators, to respect the rule of law and international human rights law. in addition, the eu must support the independent international investigation into the unlawful killings and other violations in the philippines in the context of president duterte’s actions. last but not least, i call on the philippines to remove unsr tauli-corpuz from the terrorist list and to ensure that senator lima has the right to fair trial.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported this report because i am firmly convinced that the financial system urgently needs to prevent terrorist organisations from being financed through it. we can look at the recent fracking cases of the birth and building of the terrorist organisation 'islamic state' which uses a number of financial organisations and institutions to finance its extremely dangerous and illegal activities. financial systems must be protected from the penetration of dirty money and money laundering to finance terrorist threats, which are the greatest threat to the lives and health of citizens of the member states of the european union.
i believe that the fight against money laundering is extremely important and it is good that the european union is fighting this phenomenon, this international crime. on the other hand, i must say that this directive contains certain provisions which, in my country, the czech republic, for example, are embarrassing to certain professional groups. i have received many protests, for example, from czech antique dealers who perceive that this general, comprehensive regulation will mainly affect small and medium-sized decent businessmen, who trade in antiques and cultural artifacts. i have therefore finally abstained because i feel that some of the wording in the text could have been more precise, could have been more unambiguous, and i will only hope that the concerns raised by the czech public will not be met in the end and that the directive will really tackle money laundering and will not bully and penalize small and medium-sized businesses with cultural artefacts in the czech republic.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the future of organic production adopted today is an important step forward for the development of the sector. scientific research shows that organic products have a positive effect on vulnerable members of our society, such as children, adolescents, but also pregnant women and people with serious illnesses. the interest and demand for quality products continues to grow both in the european union and in my country, bulgaria. however, this raises expectations of quality assurance. in this context, i believe it is extremely important that controls are strictly and consistently applied, also taking into account the unfair practices of farmers who spray near bees without warning or who spray with rapidly degrading preparations. i am of the opinion that inspections should remain an important and integral part of organic production. i support the report on the introduction of stricter import rules. organic production is linked to the farming process. for this reason, i think it is entirely fair that the same conditions should apply to producers in third countries outside the european union.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted against this report because i think it is making a big mistake. there is no doubt that civil society and its organisations are important and should have their support. but in the form of civil organizations, of civil society in many countries, especially in the eastern part of the european union, attempts are being made to influence and influence and change the traditional values of these countries. each country has its own history, its own traditions, its own biography. it is the right of every country and every society in the european union to protect its traditions and its values. on the one hand we say that the european union is based on equality in diversity, and on the other hand we try to change the values of some of the countries in the european union. this is unacceptable and unacceptable. for this reason, we believe in our group that traditional values must be protected and that states and societies must be able to preserve their self-consciousness and their identity.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the growing public hesitation about vaccines and the decline in vaccination rates in europe is a worrying phenomenon. i believe that a broad public debate is needed both at european and national level. the public's mistrust has also had its consequences in the form of measles outbreaks that have occurred in a number of member states that could have been prevented. the mass hysteria associated with vaccine side effects has even the most courageous parent vaccinating their child with a broken heart. what we do know for sure, however, is that vaccination is of paramount importance to public health. we can't afford to lose human lives because of a lack of information. in the last few years, the european union has taken on a great wave of refugees, and we need to think in terms of prevention as well. because let's be honest, a lot of refugees have an unclear health status, and that poses an additional risk to public health.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, i thank my colleague, mrs. yakovcic, for raising this extremely important issue. many countries in the european union have a tradition of shipbuilding and this industry is currently under threat. and then there is the question, which is raised all the time, of the so-called reindustrialisation of europe and of the european union. we need similar efforts, we need to preserve these traditions. we need to keep these jobs. we have competition - somewhat unfair - from countries outside the european union, which quite logically and quite naturally try to enter these markets. and it is up to us, and our collective efforts as the european parliament and the european union, to protect our own production and our own jobs. (the president agreed to answer the question 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. thank you for the question, mr mamikins, you are right: the accession of both latvia and bulgaria to the european union is a matter of negotiation and negotiation. yes, there were job losses initially, but it also provides an opportunity for future development. at present, there are two state-owned shipyards operating in bulgaria and several private ones. and they have treaties with other countries in the european union. so within the union we should cooperate. moreover, we should cooperate in the sphere of military production, where we can achieve good results.
in writing. the 2021-2027 budget is the real call for ambition on the future of the eu. so we need to think ambitiously and act responsibly with taxpayers' money. i welcome the fact that the priorities and changes proposed today by the european commission are close to the citizen - the funding of youth programmes, employment, education, research. increasing trust in the eu institutions is linked to the strengthening of visible eu programmes - erasmus+, the youth employment initiative, sme funding programmes, the proposal for free interrail trips for young people. the challenge is how to do more with less after the second largest economy, the united kingdom, leaves the eu. i believe we can optimise the means to achieve more in areas such as security and migration management and still maintain priorities such as cohesion policy. as regards cohesion policy, it is important to see it not only as a solidarity measure but also as an investment in the future of the whole of europe and a guarantee for the proper functioning of the internal market. let's not look at this holistic policy as a dividing line between net donors and net beneficiaries. we all know the picture is much more complex.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i would like to stress that the commission greatly values the important role that this house plays in scrutinising the activities of the european union institutions, including the eu bank. we therefore welcome marco valli’s report. the importance that parliament attaches to monitoring the european investment bank mirrors the key role that the bank plays in the financial implementation and delivery of our political priorities. the european investment bank is an indispensable partner in financing infrastructures and in supporting small- and medium-sized enterprises, innovation, employment, climate change, sustainable transport and policies related to external actions. i would like to focus on the commission’s actions in two fields of particular relevance highlighted in your report. first, on compliance: we cannot – and must not – allow taxpayers’ money to be channelled through complex structures with high tax avoidance or risk or through tax jurisdictions which do not comply with international tax good governance standards. the european union has achieved unprecedented progress in its efforts to counter tax avoidance. let me give you a few examples. we have swiftly adopted all the elements of the anti-tax avoidance package, dramatically increased tax transparency and adopted the first ever eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes. all these collective actions have put the european union at the forefront of international efforts to improve tax good governance. at the same time, we have been taking steps to improve consistency between our tax policy objective and the delivery of eu funds through international financial institutions. as a result, a number of regulations governing the use of eu funds now contain clauses intended to ensure that eu-funded projects do not contribute to tax avoidance. all eu partners entrusted with the implementation of the european union budget will need to meet these requirements. in order to ensure effective application of the new legal rules, the commission adopted a communication on 24 march providing guidance on the new legal requirements. we have also asked our implementing partners to reflect this guidance as quickly as possible in their policies. however, the impact of the guidance depends on the union’s ability to send a unified message. for this to happen, it is important that member states’ representatives in governing bodies of international financial institutions, development financial institutions, and national promotion banks, along with other institutions supporting projects through the use of public funds, adopt a consistent approach that reflects our joint commitment to countering tax avoidance. parliament’s continued support in this endeavour is most important, not least in order to reach out to the member states as shareholders of the eib. secondly, on the transparency and the addition of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), the first detailed reasoning for the decisions of the efsi investment committee approving the use of the eu guarantee was recently published on the eib website in line with the new requirements under the efsi 2.0 regulation. the first scoreboards related to those decisions have also been made publicly available. they give detailed information on the four-pillar assessment that each project has undergone before being submitted to the efsi investment committee. this significantly increases the transparency in decision-making on efsi support. responding to the criticism in this house, i would say three things. firstly, you have to bear in mind that efsi was a revolution for the eib in terms of expectations as regards the type of operation and risk. secondly, today’s results are overwhelmingly positive, as all member states are covered, smaller projects are being pooled through investment platforms and new instruments are being developed, including for the social sector. the top five users of the efsi are currently greece, estonia, bulgaria, portugal and spain. finally, i am convinced that collectively we have made a lot of improvements through the efsi 2.0 regulation, including on additionality, transparency and both sectorial and geographical balance. i would like to assure you that the commission continues to be attentive to parliament’s observations and is committed to ensuring that those observations are best informed. thank you very much for your attention, and i look forward to the debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, at the beginning, i would like to congratulate mr valli for his hard work on this well-balanced report and especially for his openness to work with all of us, the shadow rapporteurs. this is the third year in a row i’ve been involved in a way in the consideration of the annual report of the activities of the european investment bank, and i can see improvement. i can see progress, especially, by the way, in the communication with the parliament – this is something that we should all welcome. however, there is room for further improvement. for example, i think – especially now with the current proposal of next mff, bearing in mind that probably the share of financial instruments will be even bigger – the european investment bank should guarantee a well-balanced (in geographical terms) distribution of these financial instruments. moreover, i think not just geographical balance but the distribution of financial instruments towards the different sectors of our economy is crucial as well. i think this is achievable and i’m sure that the good communication between the bank and the parliament will continue, and i’m looking forward to a fruitful discussion that we’ll have today.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the valli report acquires added relevance in light of the post-2020 mff perspective just announced by the commission. one important aspect is the spending on social investments. the report highlights that efsi investments in human capital, culture and health amounted to only 4%. furthermore, it is regrettable that within the annual eib portfolio social investments amount to less than 6%. the focus of the eu budget and new challenges such as migration, borders and defence underline the increased need for the eib to promote investments in priorities set out in the treaty, such as cohesion. given that social cohesion is a key horizontal priority goal for the eib, and while the bank is still struggling to achieve the mandatory 30% threshold, it is now evermore called upon to identify and include in its activities new forms of investments which are suitable and effective for the social sector and to implement them on a broader geographical scale, taking into consideration the need to implement the social pillar, as well as to counter inequalities, parities and disparities within the eu. mr president, without adequate social investments, the very future of the european project will be severely jeopardised. and by the way, mr president, how come there is no representative of the bank at this discussion? is it possible that parliament failed to invite any bank representatives? president hoyer always takes part in a very engaged way. i would be grateful if you would find out how this most unusual situation could have arisen.
thank you, madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the annual evaluation of the use of european funds in the form of the report under discussion is extremely important because it contributes to the analysis of the effectiveness of european funding. i am therefore very pleased that there is a general decline in errors and fraud with european funds - this means that more money is going to those who really need it, namely the european citizens. at the same time, we must not stop being demanding every euro cent spent for the wrong reasons is at the expense of citizens. in this context, i welcome the creation of the european public prosecutor's office, the adoption of the directive on combating fraud involving european funds, and the more general directive on combating money laundering, because all these measures will give additional tools to the member states to fight against all kinds of financial fraud. effective implementation of the legislation in practice is key in this respect and i hope that it will be transposed as soon as possible!
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking all those who have taken part in the drafting of this report and helped to achieve what i believe is a good result. i also want to thank the coordinator, mr. nistelrooy, for also devoting some of his efforts to getting the report finished on time. when the european union starts building roads that save potentially hundreds of lives, when the european union starts connecting villages, towns and families with its motorways, when the union starts saving travellers tens of hours thanks to the roads and railways it builds, then we start speaking in a language that people understand. then the european union is not a distant, imaginary entity for people, but something they understand and believe in and feel a connection to. the title of my report is quite long and complex, although the aim behind it is very simple: to show that the european union has never achieved more in transport infrastructure investment in the last ten years. moreover, i am pleased that this report comes so timely, just two hours after the draft for the next multiannual financial framework was presented. we had a very simple goal. first, to assess how useful and effective the investments have been in the 2007-2013 period, to look at half-time at how we are doing in the current programming period and to make recommendations for the next one. i think we did a good job. however, it is clear that there is room for improvement in the way the union functions. lastly, as i'm sure each of you knows, to complete the ten-t network in the european union, we need half a trillion euros. i am not sure that we are anywhere near that number in finding those funds, but we have to say: if we succeed in doing so, and we have to, the european union will provide almost 10 million new jobs and will provide an additional 2% per annum to the union's economic growth. this is not to be ignored. moreover, if we are to leave aside kilometres, ports, motorways, railways, we have one fundamental objective when we talk about transport in the union, and that is that eastern and western europe, northern and southern europe should remain only geographical concepts. to have the regions so well connected that we can overcome the distances in hours, to be able to say: we have free movement of people, goods and capital without having to wait at the borders or having to, despite the beautifully constructed roads, have some country say: for me this is not a priority, and have the so-called "botonex". it's not allowed. i think it is entirely possible to take a step forward and i am sure that in this debate we will all agree that there is no alternative to the european union's cohesion policy grant, especially when it comes to transport, especially in regions that cannot afford to attract private investment for this purpose. i thank you all again for joining this debate and look forward to hearing from all of you.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to thank everyone who took part in the debate. commissioner, there are 28 flags of 28 member states behind you. thank you for being in each of these countries and for showing the human face of cohesion policy, promoting so many projects in each of them. and that's what this report is, a business card of what we can achieve. i think there are success stories from derry to nicosia and from madeira all the way to helsinki, and that's the direction we need to go in. i am a little disappointed that the proposal for the next multiannual financial framework has a slight increase in money for the 'connected europe programme'. if we do not provide enough funding for these projects, third countries will be found to do so and then we would risk our european standards and the objectives we have set ourselves. i think we need to look at new criteria in the future. gross domestic product per capita does not give us the whole picture. before we invest in roads, let's look at the state of the road infrastructure and focus our efforts and investments where they are most needed. then our success is more visible, then we become more understandable to people. i think we're on the right track. the very fact that this report is one of the first to speak of an evaluation of the past programming period and a mid-term review of the present one in relation to transport is encouraging. i also think it's timely and it will have an impact on how we continue to spend money on transportation in the future. i also think that from now on, whatever we have done for transport infrastructure will be built on and used as an example of how the european union can work in cooperation with individual member states, individual municipalities. i'm sure we'll do it and people will appreciate it. for the next 12 months, that's what we're gonna be doing.
member of the commission. – madam president, i think that we have the solution in our hands. we have important pieces of european legislation and a lot of national laws – for instance, as was just mentioned, the criminal law in hungary – which must be properly enforced. that’s the point: that we need legislation plus enforcement. i think that we still have a lot of work to do on a european protection order. i mentioned before that we have to increase awareness among the professionals and also among the victims that this instrument exists and that they can use it in a situation when it is needed. a lot has been said here about the istanbul convention, so i want to come back to this briefly. i want to inform you that, on the eu accession to the istanbul convention, the commission is working closely with the bulgarian presidency to make progress on the conclusion of the eu’s accession to the convention. we are now working on the code of conduct and the specification of all the legal circumstances, so i think we are on the right track. regarding ratification in the member states, on monday i was in bulgaria and had a very fruitful – although quite heated – debate with people who are for and people who are against the ratification of the istanbul convention, and i realised that we have to do much better in explaining to our citizens what the istanbul convention is about: that it is not, for instance, introducing the third gender into the national legal order, nor is it pushing the member states to legalise gay marriage. this is the convention whose main purpose is to fight against violence against women and children; to fight against domestic violence and all very brutal forms of violence, including female genital mutilation, forced sterilisation, forced marriages, and all kinds of violence, including stalking, rape and so on. we need to do be much better at explaining and also in looking into the translation of the text of the convention in different member states, because in the bulgarian language – and also in the czech language by the way – we do not differentiate between the words gender and sex, and this creates a lot of misunderstanding and misconceptions. so we have to work more on this. i confirmed in bulgaria that i am not pushing any member state to ratify, but i am honestly trying to convince the member states, because from the bottom of my heart i am convinced that this is the way to achieve the proper harmonisation of the criminal offences of violence against women and children, and this is simply a very useful piece of legislation which we are obliged to have in order to help the victims of such violence. finally, concerning the victims’ rights directive: you all know that the directive was adopted in 2012 and entered into force in november 2015. the level of transposition was not satisfactory so, in january 2016, the commission started infringement proceedings against 16 member states for non—notification of national measures transposing the directive. some of the infringements are still ongoing. this is again a very practical piece of legislation which needs proper implementation in the member states and the introduction of all the measures, which should serve the better treatment of victims and give better assistance to victims, which requires this to be brought into practical life in the member states.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i would like to conclude by stressing that we share the view that stalking and the protection of its victims is an issue of common concern that touches upon the core values of the european union, and therefore need to be addressed with a high level of commitment by both the european union institutions and the member states. concerning the calls upon bulgaria made by the honourable members of the european parliament lenaers, urtasun and lópez aguilar, the convention is part of an internal debate in my country and i would like to underline that i am here today in the capacity of presidency of the council, representing all eu member states. therefore, i am not in a position to enter into details of the current situation in bulgaria. nevertheless, i would like to underline that it is beyond any doubt that bulgarian society is firmly opposed to any form of violence against women. the fact that the convention was included as a priority file in our presidency programme is a clear demonstration that the bulgarian government is convinced of its importance, and we have taken the decision to do so in permanent consultation with the european parliament, and in particular with the chair of the committee on women’s rights and gender equality. unfortunately, there is still a high level of polarisation in the bulgarian political elite and society. society is not ready and the government has to act within these limits. we would like to broaden the debate to have our whole parliament and our society on board so that the convention can be implemented effectively. at present, we are waiting for clarification from the constitutional court concerning certain aspects of the convention in relation to the bulgarian constitution, and i am convinced that this will contribute to reassuring public opinion. it will also clarify many legal issues and will contribute to a more constructive debate on the topic. we will assess the situation in the light of the court’s ruling. as a presidency, we are doing our best to finalise the discussions on the code of conduct so that the council is in a position afterwards to adopt the decision on the conclusions of the istanbul convention by the european union. the council is also committed to proceed further on the subject. during the forthcoming justice and home affairs council in june, the council is expected to call for a comprehensive approach and for a wide range of actions to be taken by the commission, the member states and the european union agency for law enforcement training (cepol) in order to enhance the prevention and detection of, investigation into and protection against all acts of gender-based violence, including those that cause or are likely to cause psychological harm or suffering to women, for example, stalking.
in writing. of course, protecting women from violence is important and all those persecuted in one member state should receive help in all others. but we must be careful not to demonize one gender at the expense of the other, since you all talk about equality. i do not understand mrs yurova's desire, supported by the council, to resume the discussion on the istanbul convention. women's rights are protected by a number of other international instruments and there is no need to raise again issues that we have just concluded. bulgaria does not agree with this convention and we will not support its adoption. mrs. yurova, your own czech republic doesn't want to hear about this convention, and you're trying to push through the european institutions to ratify it. i think it is clear that each country has a sovereign right and that it cannot be forced to join or not to join a convention. i believe that the debate on its ratification should be stopped, because the pressure on member states will not lead to anything good, but on the contrary will shake the already fragile eu further.
i have supported the 2016 annual report on the protection of the financial interests of the european union, as i believe that it describes all the important aspects, highlights the problems with the additional reporting required. the report by mr berniot states that a european public prosecutor's office should be set up, with its own resources to detect abuses and fraud. the report itself encourages a more rapid and effective establishment of this office. i also draw particular attention to the financial interests directive, which introduces minimum rights in relation to the definitions of fraud offences and sanctions affecting the financial interests of the union, covering crossborder vat fraud. the directive gives a definition of corruption and sets out the types of fraudulent behaviour that should be criminalised. this is a first step towards harmonising european criminal law. the report calls on the commission to publish a publicly accessible annual report on the use of european union funds and on the transfers of the european investment bank, the european bank for reconstruction and development to offshore structures. i believe that these steps will contribute to a more effective protection of the financial interests of the union.
madam president, we have repeatedly spoken in this chamber about the serious situation in venezuela, and we have last discussed the enormous social and economic problems facing the venezuelan people, where the socialist dictator maduro has caused a once rich country to suffer today from a situation where people have no medicine, no basic necessities of life. at the same time, there is a huge constitutional crisis in this country, undemocratic processes, and unfortunately today we voted on the situation that is going to happen on may 20, when the early presidential elections in venezuela are going to take place, and now it is already clear that these elections will not be free, they will not be democratic, that opposition candidates will not be able to participate. it is therefore good that the european parliament, in its vote today, has made it clear that we do not recognise such elections and that we call on the venezuelan authorities to postpone the electoral process and bring it into line with the principles of a democratic state governed by the rule of law.
my dear mrs. president, ladies and gentlemen, i supported the report by mrs novakova because the european union's cohesion policy is the most visible instrument of european added value for citizens. investments through the european union budget not only meet long-term objectives, but also have an impact on local communities and businesses. investment in transport infrastructure under the thematic objective 'promoting sustainable transport and eliminating bottlenecks in all key network infrastructures' is among the most tangible achievements of cohesion policy, as it contributes to eliminating disparities within the european union and to the competitiveness and economic strengthening of all member states. this is particularly important in the balkans, where there is no connectivity and where the number of hours it takes to travel from sofia to brussels between the member states and the capitals of the member states is limited.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. the placing of similar products should be strictly respected in order to avoid a situation in the single market where european producers have more difficult conditions for the production or sale of products. the recent media reports of inhumane treatment of animals during transport from australia are just one small example of how global trade lacks rules to put european producers on an equal footing with those from third countries. the european commission must look very carefully at any such bad practices and demand the same high standards from third country manufacturers as it does from european ones.
madam president, the ban on animal testing for cosmetics in the european union has borne fruit. first, it confirms the positive balance of the ban. secondly, imports of cosmetics from third countries will no longer be based on animal testing. thirdly, with this resolution we are taking responsibility because we are reaffirming that alternative solutions exist and that europe has been using them since 2013. finally, we go further by calling on the international community and third countries to follow our lead and to pay particular attention, in the framework of free trade agreements, to compliance with our legislation in this field. i was a co-signer of this text and naturally voted in favour of it.
the sheep and goat sectors have a thousand-year history in europe. at the same time, however, sheep products are increasingly appearing on the european market, mainly from countries such as australia and new zealand. the sheep sector should be excluded from a future agreement with both new zealand and australia because the conditions for producers there are much lower than in europe, and this puts the european in a non-competitive position. the new cap unfortunately provides for a smaller cash resource in the next programming period. this will have an immense negative impact on the attractiveness of agriculture, especially for young people. i therefore believe that for young farmers, especially for sensitive sectors such as sheep and goat farming, a doubling coefficient and, consequently, more targeted support should be introduced. i call on sheep and goat farmers in my country, bulgaria, to take advantage of market tools, such as mountain products and quality schemes, to protect quality products as soon as possible and to bring bulgarian products back to the table.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, pluralism, freedom and independence of the media are things we cannot afford to compromise. they are the guardians and guarantors of democracy. unfortunately, we have to admit that lately there has been an increasing number of attacks on freedom of expression in the european union. the murder of maltese journalist daphne caruana galizia signals a dramatic deterioration of media freedom in the european union. unfortunately, this is not an isolated incident. there are also attacks on media freedom in my country, bulgaria. the annual ranking of reporters without borders ranks bulgaria 111th in terms of freedom of expression. not surprisingly, we are the last in the european union, with even the western balkan countries doing better than us. being a journalist in bulgaria is not an easy task nowadays. the backroom deals between oligarchs, the media and the government are no secret to anyone. the scary thing is when we start to take this for granted.
madam president, i voted 'abstention' on this report by mrs spinelli for several reasons. there is no doubt that media freedom is crucial to the level of democracy. there is no doubt that free journalists and free media must be protected and promoted. in the world, and in europe in particular, we are currently witnessing unprecedented pressures on journalists, on publications, on entire sectors of the profession. but then there's the issue of fake news. it's about how the news is presented to the public and to society in general. and this is a fundamental question that needs to be addressed to the owners themselves, and to the editors themselves, and to the people who work in them. on the other hand, this report contains inconsistent and unnecessary references to the istanbul convention, which one third of the countries in the european union have not ratified. there is no reason to mix the two, and that is, in my opinion, harmful and wrong.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. – mr president, among the most important sectors within the eu are food and farming, employing more than 60 million people and providing the food security for all of the union’s citizens. rural areas, including remotely-located mountainous areas, are not only used for production of food but are also home to a substantial number of europeans and support the recreation and tourism industries. we should also not forget the environment protection measures. having regard to the aforesaid, in order to deliver the objectives of the common agricultural policy in the future, there are some important aspects which should be underlined. firstly, provision of an adequate level of funding within the next mff, thus ensuring sufficient resources for the sector. secondly, simplification and modernisation of the cap should be done while at the same time, the financial and performance control and audit functions should be performed to the same standard and under the same criteria across all member states. finally, a fair distribution of direct payments among member states will allow faster closing of the gaps between the different regions of the union. supporting the small farms and increasing efficiency of farming is essential.
in writing. – the recent report on the implementation of the cap young farmers’ tools in the eu after the 2013 reform highlights key issues such as improved access to land and credit, encouraging knowledge transfer and succession planning, the setting up of more advisory services, and the reduction of administrative barriers for young farmers. unfortunately, there are more issues, which we should address such as demographic picture in some regions of the eu that are very unbalanced, with few or no young people living there. obviously to counter these negative trends the eu and member states should support young farmers. young farmers and new entrants represent important sources of innovation and entrepreneurship within agriculture, bringing benefits such as the introduction of new knowledge or techniques, the development of new business and organisational models, more sustainable farming systems (e.g. share farming, pre-financing, crowdsourcing), the increase of connections between farming and the local community, and the adaptation of traditional knowledge to develop business innovations. therefore, eu and member states have to provide systematically consultancy and support for young people who want to become young farmers. because young people are capital, which eu agriculture needs in order to be sustainable and developed.
in writing. with the adoption of the resolution on the review of cap instruments to support young farmers, the european parliament reaffirmed its strong commitment to generational renewal in agriculture and to making it a modern and attractive sector for young people. support for young farmers under the cap should be maintained and strengthened in any subsequent policy reform in order to encourage young people to pursue a career in agriculture. a strong cap targeting young farmers will also help to address the main challenges of access to land and finance, reducing administrative barriers, further training and developing business skills. young farmers are eager to embrace new technologies and are drivers of innovation and entrepreneurship. the cap should therefore encourage a new generation of young farmers who implement new business models based on end-users and develop smart solutions for sustainable and environmentally friendly farming practices. generational renewal is also key to maintaining viable rural areas. the attraction of young people, i.e. young farmers, to rural areas is linked to the availability of appropriate material, social and digital infrastructure, as well as to the provision of conditions and a standard of living similar to those in urban areas.
mr president, i believe that we do not need a budget to advertise the european union. it is enough to promote the results that the connecting europe facility is producing, because on our european roads there is more politics than tarmac, i believe. we all agree here that the biggest cause of car accidents is bottlenecks, and at the same time, the best tool we can provide to solve bottlenecks is the connecting europe facility. we all agree here that we have to complete the trans-european transport (ten-t) core network. we all agree that we need half a trillion to complete that network, and still we do not provide a sufficient budget for the connecting europe facility. i think we should do better than this. although at the moment we have to agree that the progress made in the connecting europe facility is significant, i believe we should create additional tools of influence to the member states in order to push them to make it possible to complete the ten-t network as soon as possible.
we're here today to discuss the controversial mobility project. scandalous because it's the most blatant display of double standards this room has ever seen. president macron's proposals are anti-european and eurosceptic. they are so because they aim at one thing only - to bankrupt the eastern entrepreneurs and to attract their workers as black workers to their companies. this project does not propose market practices but administrative ones, free market violations, freedom of movement violations, distortions of competition, and all this is hypocrisy and double standards. there can be no european union in which there are companies that work in the eastern markets and eastern companies that do not work in the western markets. this is wrong, unfair and, again, anti-european. these proposals in themselves show a clear trend towards a 'two-speed' division of europe, which is detrimental to the eastern countries and would turn eastern european carriers, including those from bulgaria, romania, etc., into gas-barge operators. this is unacceptable and unacceptable. ladies and gentlemen, you should be aware of this and vote against it.
mr president, european agriculture is on the verge of a demographic and generational crisis. the 'young farmer' measure is a tool in the right direction, but unfortunately the negative trends of rural exodus have not changed. more flexibility for both young and beginning farmers is critical to keeping rural areas alive and active. if a more flexible and specific approach is not introduced, more villages will disappear in the shortest possible time. the extremely difficult access to land, which remains concentrated in the hands of a few producers, especially in countries like my own bulgaria, is one of the most serious reasons for the inability of young people to see in agriculture a potential livelihood and occupation, especially in disadvantaged regions such as mountain regions. i call on the national authorities to introduce a two-factor increase, taking into account the number of harvests per year or the types of crops when determining the aid for young farmers in mountain regions, as we called for with the vote on the report today.
mr president, i did not support this directive on the posting of workers because i believe that it is a regulation which damages the principles of the internal market of the european union, which in my view is contrary to the principles of the free movement of services. the problems of wage levels cannot, in my view, be eliminated by administrative restrictions and administrative regulations. i believe that wages should be commensurate with the strength of the individual economies. the regulation adopted today is damaging to individual firms, burdens them with administrative work and may, in the future, lead to an increase in unemployment. that means we are interfering with the liberal economy, we are interfering with the free market, we are interfering with the principles on which european economic integration is based, the four freedoms of the internal market. i think this measure is very unfortunate and it is the expression of the lobbying of those who fear competitiveness and a cheaper and more efficient workforce.
mr president, i voted against this document because it actually stifles and kills entrepreneurs in central and eastern europe. this document is a clear indication of double standards and hypocrisy. on the one hand our partners and neighbours in western europe say 'we want a free market, we want to work in your markets, we want to be able to sell in your markets.' on the other hand, they say 'your companies should not come to our markets because they will take the jobs of our workers.' this was shared in the hall today by colleagues from france. we can't accept such an idea, since french companies operate on bulgarian territory. there's a difference. when you say "we want equal pay", do western companies in eastern europe pay the same wages as western companies? no, this whole idea is wrong. it kills the free market, it kills competition, it kills free enterprise, it kills mobility and it divides the european union in two. this idea is anti-european and eurosceptic, which is why i voted against it.
madam president, madam high representative, the establishment of a peaceful and stable situation in libya is a matter of paramount importance both for libya itself and for our own security. that is why it is imperative that we continue to support the stabilisation of the country by providing both economic and institutional assistance, and of course support the un plan of action for libya. there must be reconciliation between the various warring factions in the country. today is a day of hope for libya. the basis for holding these parliamentary and presidential elections, which according to today's agreements should be on december 10, should be a constitutional referendum and an electoral law, but most importantly, the agreements between the warring parties must be respected. it is also important for us, of course, that the southern border of our european union is well guarded. terrorism knows no borders, and so the fight against terrorism cannot know any borders either. the best tools against terrorism, against violence, against extremism, are reconciliation and economic prosperity for young people, especially in africa and especially in libya. we must hope that what has been achieved in paris today will not just be on paper, but will happen in reality. the european union, and i am confident you will continue to work towards this. i wish you success, i wish you success in restoring statehood in libya and, of course, security for european citizens.
- what? chairman, madam high representative, nearly eight years after the start of the revolution in libya, the country is still divided and its citizens are suffering daily from attacks by warring factions. it is time for the european union to have a clear, consistent and above all proactive policy towards libya, providing unreserved support to the un-recognised government of fayez al-sarraj with a view to restoring statehood in the country. the government should be provided with continued technical and financial assistance in the fight against the islamic state as well as against human traffickers. to this end, the european union and the member states should step up their actions to ensure the security of the libyan borders, in particular the maritime borders, by providing the necessary equipment and by providing training programmes for libyan border guards. it is of the utmost importance that the mandate of the european union mission to libya, eubam, be extended beyond 31 december 2018 and that, at the earliest opportunity, the mission be relocated back to libya in order to be more effective. ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary to mobilize all the resources that the european union has to help the official government to return libya to peaceful states.
mr president, the annual report on the functioning of the schengen area once again states that bulgaria and romania fulfilled the criteria for accession seven years ago. the readiness to join was repeatedly confirmed by the european parliament, the president of the commission and the council conclusions. i fully support the report's view that 'the full implementation of schengen law in the member states that have met the criteria is essential for a coordinated and robust legal certainty framework'. if internal borders are removed, the interoperability of border schemes will be improved. schengen would indeed be stronger if bulgaria and romania were part of it, as commissioner avramopoulos once said. the arguments against are purely political. i therefore support this report, but i also urge the council to take the long-needed action to admit bulgaria and romania to schengen.
mr president, i congratulate mr quelu for this objective report, which gives a real assessment of the state of the schengen area today, highlights the pros and cons, and the actions that need to be taken. the schengen area has been under great strain in recent years, and it is precisely times like these that require the european parliament to play a more serious role in preserving this area. the european parliament is obliged to protect the rights of citizens by actively fighting for the preservation of the schengen area. unfortunately, however, the functioning of schengen today cannot be said to be optimal. the reintroduction of border controls seriously undermines citizens' confidence in european integration. measures should therefore be taken to restore the benefits to citizens, so as not to undermine the basic idea of free movement. the european union faces new challenges threats from attacks and terrorism. all these threats call for better information exchange, better coordination, closer cooperation and more european solidarity. the effective functioning of the schengen area depends on the degree of unity and solidarity between the countries. it is this solidarity that demands that bulgaria and romania be admitted to schengen immediately. the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen will contribute to greater security and stability in the european union. the union must immediately decide on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area, because both countries reliably protect the external borders and must therefore be full members of this area.
mr president, in recent years the schengen area has been faced with a number of challenges - the migration crisis and the terrorist threat. and we've seen the introduction of internal border controls between countries that haven't had a border between them for a quarter of a century. this is a dangerous trend, because in reality the european union would be very difficult to function without schengen. we can even say that schengen and the european union are indivisible. it is therefore important that all member states are part of the common area without borders after having fulfilled the necessary legally established criteria. bulgaria and romania did this seven years ago. we are actively using the schengen information system and i hope that the council will decide on 100% access to the system for both countries very soon. we are part of the european border and coast guard, we use the single entry/exit calculator, we have access to the visa information system, we fully apply schengen legislation, we guard the most difficult and busiest external border - the one with turkey - from both criminals and illegal migrants. bulgaria is actually part of schengen. it is time that this was reflected in a political decision to lift internal border controls and to join the schengen area. bulgaria in schengen means a more secure european union.
in writing. – i congratulate the rapporteur, mr coelho, for his diligent work on the report and his dedication throughout the years of defending the principles and merits of schengen as one of eu’s brightest achievements. i consider schengen indeed to be a space of not only security and open borders, but also a space of solidarity and recognition of the trust between our economies and societies. in that relation i highly value the acknowledgements of the rapporteur for the role of countries like bulgaria and romania, who are at the forefront in protecting our common borders and ensuring high-levels of control by allocating the necessary financial, technical and human resources to those tasks. i would like to reiterate the rapporteur’s conviction that bulgaria and romania should be granted immediate accession to the schengen area as fully-fledged members, as this has already been announced in the european parliaments resolution from june 2011. those conclusions in the report are based on proven facts that both countries comply and fulfil all criteria for conclusion of their schengen accession. this will reinforce citizen’s trust in the credibility of european institutions and will foster further cohesion including the full benefits related to the freedom of movement.
the common agricultural policy is the oldest european policy. given the turbulent times that european agriculture is going through and the uncertainty facing european farmers, and in particular bulgarian farmers, i find the proposal to reduce the budget of the common agricultural policy to be dangerous. in this context, i believe that the bulgarian government should at least insist on maintaining the budget for bulgaria during this programming period and i urge it to finally do so following the example of other member states. it is time, however, to change the model of bulgarian agriculture. the allocation of subsidies is not fair. it is not logical to subsidize cereals and vegetables disproportionately, as is the case at present. agriculture is becoming monocultural, the sector is not attractive enough for young people, there is no targeted policy towards mountain areas. the problem of land concentration is becoming more acute. against this background, the reduced budget in the next programming period is not a solution and it is irresponsible to accept this.
odometer fraud costs europeans billions every year. this is a well-known problem in bulgaria, which has one of the highest import values of used cars in europe. studies show that between 40% and 80% of cars in my country are rigged. this is a serious problem, and not just a market problem, but a competition problem. this is also an economic loss of 8 billion euros for the entire european union. i am therefore pleased that we are proposing a european solution to a european problem and i hope that the commission will stick to the measures and decisions in this report. the cases of odometer tampering in cars have a direct impact on both the self-esteem of european consumers and the confidence of our voters and consumers. the manipulations can be stopped. there are solutions, like the ones that the netherlands and belgium have found, that have put an end to the falsification of car mileage. let's not make our european consumers regret their purchase. let's make sure they're better protected.
madam president, it is no secret that turkey is not a democratic country, quite the opposite. it's no secret that the turkish president is a dictator, violating freedom of speech, freedom of expression, freedom of journalism in his own country. it is no secret that this country is interfering in the internal affairs of its neighbours and is a threat to them. it's no secret that this country is finding and buying support all over the world. it is no secret that there are colleagues in this room who are working for the cause of turkey - an undemocratic, non-european country. of course turkey uses the money that is given to it to buy equipment and to crush anyone who disagrees with it (i.e. military equipment, we all know). and it's high time we stopped burying our heads in the sand. it is no secret that this country is not european, will not be european and cannot be part of the european union. so, ladies and gentlemen, it is high time that we put an end to this hypocrisy. it's time to stop paying european taxpayers' money to a dictator. so it's time to break off the negotiations and get things straight.
madam president, the ipa funds are investments which contribute to both the accession countries and to the union. while these funds help our partners to implement political and economic reforms, they also help the eu to reach its objectives regarding a sustainable economic recovery, energy supply, transport, environment and climate change. the modal sector approach of ipa ii promotes structural reform that helps to transform a given sector and reach the eu standards. the eca assessment of the pre-accession assistance to turkey shows that it has been well designed but encountered difficulties in supporting sector-wide reforms. assessing the implementation in three priority sectors – the rule of law, governance and human resources – reveals a mixed picture. despite the difficulties in the implementation of ipa in turkey, it is indisputable that, without this programme for our partners, it would be more difficult to fulfil eu membership obligations and support the political reforms, economic, social and territorial development. concerning the use of conditionality related to the implementation of ipa, there is a need to assess what would be the impact of the pre-accession fund if negotiations are suspended. in this case, under ipa2 there are no explicit provisions for suspensions of the funds.
on behalf of the ppe group. one of the most common clichés when talking about youth is that the future belongs to young people. this cliché is much wiser than it seems, because it contains the hidden truth that the present does not seem to belong to young people, and it does. many of the decisions that are made in the present decide the future of young people, but they cannot participate in making these decisions. i think one of the main strengths of this report is that it has listened to and reflected the maximum number of voices of young people and their organisations in the european union. and i think we need to be honest with these young people and tell them frankly: much of the key policies that affect your future, which are essentially youth policies, education-related policies, the reforms needed for new forms of learning, everything related to successful social integration, tackling youth unemployment, are actually up to your national governments. we, at the level of the european institutions, are pooling experience, providing best practice, raising the bar, setting high standards. don't let your governments ignore these standards, don't let them slip under the radar. and may god grant that as many european governments as possible exceed those standards.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur for all his efforts in the preparation of this report. young people in europe face numerous challenges in the fields of education, the labour market and more. their status has recently come under pressure with new developments in the eu, such as the ongoing brexit negotiations, discussions on the next multiannual financial framework (mff) and the future generation of erasmus+, for example. as a liberal, i strongly support encouraging young people to take an active role in public life. the structured dialogue between youth organisations and institutions in the eu and at national level needs to be continued and reinforced. it is very important to focus on improvement of the status of young people. in addition, we have to improve the quality of offers under the youth guarantee scheme, defining standards and improving the member states’ monitoring, reporting and performing systems, to ensure that the funds from the european youth employment initiative are being used as a supplement to national funds and not as a replacement for them. lastly, the member states must continue their efforts on national implementation and validation of the system and provide adequate funding for youth to acquire skills, including through non-formal education and training. we need to step up our efforts and make the necessary changes in the labour world in order not only to facilitate young people’s transition from education to internship and employment, but also to welcome innovation on the labour market.
madam chairman, mr. canete, i'd like to present a different point of view tonight. we hear all the time that young people are the future of europe, that we should invest in them, that they are a priority for the european union. but i'm afraid that these beautiful stories have practically no real coverage. the reality is very different. youth unemployment remains very high and many young people are taking on jobs that are below their skill level just to make ends meet. they continue to be the first victims of the economic crisis. at the same time, the european union, which claims that young people are a priority, offers youth-oriented programmes such as erasmus+, which are, however, only available to young people who have the appropriate financial means. my question is what do we do for these young people who dream of going on an erasmus+ exchange programme but cannot afford it for the simple reason that the scholarships are small and their parents cannot bear such a financial burden. we boast incessantly that erasmus+ is the most successful programme of the european union, but unfortunately it remains inaccessible to a large number of young europeans. again, we're talking about double standards, not equal opportunity. in the same vein, the evaluation of the current european youth strategy shows that the european union is making policies for young people without the involvement of young people themselves. mr caignet, you said that this european strategy was drawn up with the participation of young people over the last year, but they say that 56% of them are not being taken into account at all. i believe that in order to have a well-functioning and democratic union, young people need to be involved and their policies and their voices heard. instead of encouraging their active participation, however, what happened with the european youth forum in bulgaria was that these young europeans were made to clap on command. that's why in bulgaria the young are apathetic to politics.
in writing. – many members of the european parliament are concerned about the situation of human rights in iran. more than half of the executions in the world take place in iran. women have been beaten up, humiliated and arrested in public for refusing to comply with strict rules on compulsory wearing of the veil (hijab). in late december 2017 and january this year, nationwide anti—government protests and uprisings shook the country and covered 142 towns and cities in all the 31 provinces of iran. thousands were arrested during the protests and 14 individuals have died in custody following their arrest. the top leaders of the islamic republic of iran have professed a leading role for the opposition pmoi in organising the protests. the protests have continued in iran. for example, on 16 may in the city of kazerun, government forces opened fire on protesters, leaving 4 dead and many more wounded. also, truck drivers all over iran have gone on a strike since 22 may, which has paralysed the country. i believe we should make human rights a condition for our relations with iran. human rights and recognising the uprisings in iran should be our priority, instead of being obsessed with the nuclear deal.
mr president, i have supported the report on the implementation of the european union youth strategy because i believe that it addresses a number of very important aspects. first, i support the view that programmes and policies targeting young people, such as erasmus+ and the youth guarantee, should have a sufficiently ambitious budget in the next multiannual financial framework. only with stable funding can we expect results in the long term. secondly, i believe that if young people are indeed a priority for the european union, then programmes targeting them should be accessible not only to young people with higher education and those with financial means. low-skilled and disadvantaged young people should have equal access to opportunities. in conclusion, i would like to say that in the development of the next european union youth strategy, we must give a greater voice to young people and youth organisations who feel excluded from this process. we can't make policies for young people without their participation.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, madam łybacka, i’m very pleased to have this debate with you today. you underline in your report the crucial role of education in shaping the future of europe. i couldn’t agree more. the transformation of our societies and economies creates changing education realities that need urgent responses if we want to offer bright futures to all our young people. in fact, over the last year or so the topic of education has visibly moved up on the eu’s agenda. in march 2017, the rome declaration called for a union where young people receive the best education and training and can study and find jobs across the continent. in november last year, eu leaders debated education at the gothenburg social summit and adopted conclusions on the topic at the december european council. with this mandate, the commission has recently outlined its vision for a european education area where people can move freely to study, learn and train, and where we can offer high quality and innovative education for all our citizens. i thank you for your explicit support for the european education area. this project is based on three objectives. firstly, to promote cross-border mobility and cooperation in education and training. secondly, to remove unjustified obstacles that make it difficult to learn, train or work abroad. our aim is to make the free movement of learners possible and to create a genuine european learning space. thirdly, to support member states in making their education and training systems more inclusive and innovative and to base them on the idea of lifelong learning. on 22 may 2018, we proposed a second set of concrete steps towards turning the vision of a european education area into reality following a first batch of proposals we tabled in january. in may, the commission presented three proposals for council recommendations. first, a recommendation on the automatic mutual recognition of higher education and upper secondary education diplomas and the outcomes of learning periods abroad. i firmly believe that we can only succeed in building a strong european identity if young people are free to study and learn in another eu country, unimpeded by administrative hurdles. let us remove the recognition obstacle, at least inside the eu, once and for all. second, we want a comprehensive approach to the teaching and learning of languages. our societies, our economy and the european project itself depend on our citizens being able to communicate with each other. alas, multilingualism is far from being a reality in the eu. it is high time we stepped up our efforts to be a truly multilingual europe. third, high-quality early childhood education and care systems. evidence shows that if learning opportunities are missed at an early age, it takes much greater efforts to make up the deficit later. the commission proposal aims to create a quality framework for early childhood education and care with the aim of giving all children the best possible start in life. we have outlined some key initiatives in support of the european education area. let me mention just some them. first, the european universities. these will boost cross-border cooperation between higher education institutions. higher education institutions which share the same vision and values will develop long-term institutional strategies for top quality education, research and innovation. the commission aims to launch pilot projects in 2019 and 2020 under the erasmus+ programme. second, the european student card will simplify learning mobility by reducing administrative burdens and costs for students and educational institutions. the aim is to make it available to all erasmus students by 2021 as a visible symbol of european student identity. third, with the graduate tracking initiative, we have launched the first ever european survey of graduates in eight pilot countries, with initial results expected by the end of 2019. all these initiatives build on the first proposals on the european education area we put forward in january. back then, the commission had launched an ambitious digital education action plan. this promotes digitalisation and innovation-driven approaches in education. a new european framework of key competences reminds us that we have to invest more in developing basic and digital skills, civic competencies and entrepreneurial attitudes, and we have to encourage more young people to study science, technology, engineering and mathematics. finally, the council recommendation on promoting common values, inclusive education and the european dimension of teaching was also tabled in january and adopted by ministers in may. never before has the eu said so clearly how important it is to promote our common values, to create a sense of belonging, to teach about the functioning values and origins of the european union and, most importantly, to learn about the cultural and historical diversity of member states. madam łybacka your excellent report and its constructive recommendations come at just the right moment. on 30 may, we presented our proposals for the future erasmus programme, which will continue to play a key role in delivering the objectives of the european education area. let me take this opportunity to warmly thank this house for your unwavering support for an ambitious erasmus programme post 2020, with an increased budget that is proportionate to the size of our ambition. i agree that we need to make the programme more inclusive and accessible. our proposal will allow 12 million people, more than ever before, to participate in different types of exchanges while reaching out to more people of all social backgrounds. in order to reach new groups of learners, the commission proposes to increase support for school pupil mobility, mobility of learners in vocational education and training, and youth mobility. furthermore, the commission wants to provide more flexible formats for learning mobility, such as short-term and group activities and virtual mobility. we also want to make it easier for smaller and grassroots organisations to take part, in particular community-based organisations that work with disadvantaged learners of all ages. i would like to thank you, madam łybacka, for your excellent cooperation in drawing up this report. all of you are a key partner for us in supporting member states in improving and modernising europe’s education systems.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr navratsic, i would like to thank you for your interest in the project. i supported the report by kristina libacka because i believe that modernising education is something that we cannot continue to put off. we live in a time where new technologies and digitization are developing at a rapid pace, and education systems need to keep pace with these developments. otherwise, our schools will continue to produce future unemployed and people who don't have the skills of the 21st century. when we talk about modernising education, it should not be understood as just upgrading the material base of educational institutions and buying modern equipment. it is important to keep up with new technologies, but they do not guarantee that adolescents will be able to better acquire knowledge, skills and competences. the results of the international pisa study show that the availability of modern digital infrastructure does not improve student performance, and this is not surprising. the problem of functional literacy is well known in the bulgarian system. our students are being overwhelmed with vast amounts of theoretical knowledge at the expense of stimulating critical thinking. we need a holistic approach, an approach that takes into account the needs of our teachers, because without them, no reform can be successful. the attitude towards them is indicative of the attitude towards the whole education system. raising their paychecks isn't going to solve the magic wand problem. they should have more autonomy and access to professional development opportunities. to this end, however, it is not enough to rely solely on the possibilities offered by the european programmes. we cannot expect brussels to solve all our problems. we need a national education policy. unfortunately, we lack such a system, and the priorities of the bulgarian government are different. it's a pity that the ones who suffer will be our children.
in writing. i welcome the report on the modernisation of education in the eu and consider it a step forward in ensuring quality education for all europeans, but also in setting even more ambitious overall targets for systemic change at national level. educational reforms, which must respond not only to the present but also to the future, require political will and strong public support from their joint design to their effective implementation with the participation of all stakeholders. we often emphasise the key role of all stakeholders, but i would go even further to encourage the creation of national alliances for quality education across the eu. one such example in bulgaria is the ngo education bulgaria 2030, an advocacy group of civil society, business and public sector whose mission is to raise the quality of education in the country by 2030. the network of over 40 organisations and experts is working actively to achieve measurable goals by monitoring progress on key indicators, informing the public about challenges and possible solutions, and translating them into educational policies through advocacy. such groupings are vital for the modernisation of education at national level and for constructive and fruitful dialogue between stakeholders in the common vision of quality education for all.
i rise at a disturbing moment about the state of democracy in my homeland, the republic of bulgaria. the reason for my speech today is the change of names of 800 localities bearing turkish-arabic names in the municipality of stara zagora. let me give you an example of what i'm talking about. ahmed bayer became antonov ridge. bair can trade with reid, but not ahmed with anton. the question is, what's it for? to make it sound more graceful? i don't think so, you know. the real reason is to remind the turks and muslims in bulgaria of the consequences of the dark policies of the communist regime, which left wounds in the souls of hundreds of thousands of bulgarian citizens. and if the ageing communist regime was responsible for this period, today's actions bear the imprint of empowered extreme nationalism, clothed in state power, standing shoulder to shoulder with the gerb a political party affiliated to the european people's party. your colleagues are members of this political party. this cannot be european behaviour, especially from a country holding the presidency of the council of the european union, and this in the european year of cultural heritage. what irony. my party, the movement for rights and freedoms, will continue to be the voice of democracy and human rights from every rostrum.
i voted in favour of the report on the modernisation of education in the european union because i believe it highlights the problems that are so acute in this area. first of all, i am totally in favour of the idea that teachers should be given special attention. they are the backbone of every educational system and without their direct involvement no educational reform can be successful. a decent reward is not enough. teachers should have access to retraining and upskilling opportunities throughout their careers to enable them to adapt more easily to new challenges. secondly, i defend the thesis that the modernisation of education should not be understood only as improving the material base of schools and investing in modern digital infrastructure. the availability of modern technology does not guarantee that knowledge, skills and competences are better absorbed. in the european union, there are still 70 million europeans who lack basic skills such as reading, writing and arithmetic. that statistic is pretty telling.
mr. president, i would like to thank you for your service. president, ladies and gentlemen, madam mogherini, allow me to begin by congratulating you on your timely and useful position for the european union, which you have expressed in the first hours of this crisis. the position was correct and it should be followed by our colleagues. ladies and gentlemen, the agreement with the islamic republic of iran is beneficial for the european union and its members. this agreement is working, this agreement can and will create jobs in each of the member states. it can, and will, be an additional guarantee for the security of the citizens of these countries. we cannot and must not allow third parties to threaten the interests of the member states of the european union. we cannot and must not be held hostage to a policy of unreasonable and voluntaristic. when we talk about human rights, we have to be clear about the limits of not interfering in the internal affairs of sovereign states. this is a good agreement, we must respect it and develop it.
in writing. – unfortunately, in 2017 we continue to witness а decline of human rights and civil society worldwide. it is important to note that in 2017, the eu remained a leading player in the universal promotion and protection of human rights at multilateral level, working in particular through the third committee of the united nations general assembly (unga) and the united nations human rights council (hrc). the eu strongly supports civil society space and the protection of human rights defenders, focused on reversing crackdowns and new restrictive laws on non-governmental organizations in certain countries, on releasing imprisoned human rights defenders and peaceful activists and on supporting their freedom to conduct their work in numerous concrete ways. however, it is necessary to witness progress in the promotion and protection of human rights and democracy in the next 2018 human rights and democracy report. to achieve this progress, the eu should strengthen its cooperation with all international and regional organisations working in both fields. furthermore, we must continue our full political and financial support for advocates of liberty, democracy and human rights throughout the world.
the statistics from the russian invasion in 2008 show hundreds of dead, thousands of wounded and injured, dozens left homeless and displaced from their homes, who in their own country became refugees. thus began the long-planned invasion to overthrow the georgian government and consolidate moscow's control over the region. but contrary to some expectations, georgia has been reborn. democratic institutions are developing, foreign investors are returning, and the world must recognize that russia's behavior is unacceptable. this development is a threat to all free nations who believe that international borders should not be changed by force. observers have been expelled from these territories, the media is silenced, and georgian citizens are forbidden to return to their homes. meanwhile, russia is building military bases and continuing its creeping occupation of georgian territory. that is why we must call on other countries to insist on the territorial integrity of georgia and not to recognize the occupied territories.
allow me to begin by expressing my condolences to the families of two bulgarian military pilots who were killed in a military helicopter crash last night while on a training mission. this disaster shows how much our countries need to cooperate more closely with each other, to purchase new combat equipment that is compatible and that meets nato standards. there's no doubt that any defense alliance, including nato, should have a clear line of command. yes, a partnership between the european union and nato is needed. yes, it is necessary for european countries to have increased cooperation in the purchase of weapons, in investing 2% of their gross domestic product in upgrading their weapons systems and being adequate and ready to respond to any external threat. this is even more important for countries like bulgaria and romania, which are in the black sea region, a region of extremely high uncertainty.
and i want to join in the condolences to the families of the pilots who died in bulgaria. this shows once again how important it is to have reliable equipment that is compatible with nato. first of all, i want to state that nato is our defense alliance. it is up to us to make nato effective and strong, and that is why the european union must be nato's effective and strong pillar in europe. the european defence structure cannot duplicate nato but must complement it. the challenges we face are huge, both terrorism, extremism, cyberterrorism, insecure neighborhoods, both from the south and from the east. our common objective is to ensure the security of european citizens. no one has the right to divide the world into spheres, especially without asking those who will be divided. we have seen this since the second world war and it must never be allowed to happen again. after brexit, 80% of nato's defence spending will come from outside the european union, and three of the four battalions in the east will be led by non-eu countries. in this respect, we really need to invest much more here in the european union in the defence sector, both in purchasing and in spending on innovative activities and technologies.
in writing. one year after the istanbul convention was signed, we can boldly state that it is a political act that is absolutely unnecessary. i support the fight against violence against women, but i am strongly against using this motion to push ideas for legalizing gay marriage, introducing the idea of "social gender" and most of all i am against the idea of gender as a social role. bulgaria is one of the countries that has not ratified the istanbul convention and i think that's the right decision. this unnecessary document does not help to combat domestic violence, but rather shifts the focus and hinders the enforcement of effective policies to combat domestic violence and support families.
mr president, prime minister rutte, thank you for your speech on a united and stable europe. indeed, we are all facing global challenges, and as you say, we need to have a european union which delivers an added value where the national sovereign state cannot be effective enough. such areas are common migration policy, a fair and effective european asylum system, protection of the external borders but also preserving and extending the free schengen area. thank you very much for the birthday wishes to prime minister borisov, and congratulations to the bulgarian presidency. i am not asking you for a present for prime minister borisov’s birthday, but for fair treatment of all countries which fulfil all the criteria which are needed for the schengen area. the same goes for erm ii – the exchange mechanism for the eurozone. i hope that you act only on behalf of the netherlands and not some other prime ministers hiding behind your back. but when will the netherlands give up this opposition and let bulgaria and romania join the schengen area, at least as regards their international airports?
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this oral question which reflects parliament’s strong commitment to multilingualism. just three weeks ago, the commission adopted a proposal for a council recommendation on the teaching and learning of languages. in fact, this proposal’s recommendation is a response to the european council which last december called on us, i quote, ‘to enhance the learning of languages so that more young people will speak at least two european languages in addition to their mother tongue’. language learning and multilingualism have never been higher on the political agenda. we should use this momentum. let me now answer your questions. first, the mutual recognition of language competence is based on the common european framework of reference for languages. the commission supports and encourages member states to use this council of europe framework. it facilitates the assessment of language competences and helps to create mutual understanding and transparency for the recognition of such competences. in recent years, the commission has reinforced its cooperation with the council of europe and its european centre for modern languages, situated in graz, austria. we have supported several joint projects, including on the assessment of language competences. two practical tools have also been developed. first, the european language portfolio, a document that helps language learners, at and beyond school, to record and reflect on their language learning and cultural experiences. the second instrument is the europass language passport, which is part of the europass online tool. these two instruments help validate language competences in a transparent and comparable manner. countries can use them to move towards the recognition of different language competences. on your second question, on teaching languages in the context of the modernisation of education in the eu: language competences are at the heart of our ambitious vision to create a european education area. being able to speak foreign languages is a key condition for studying and working abroad. it provides valuable and much-demanded skills on the labour market, strengthens a sense of european identity and enable learners fully to discover europe’s cultural diversity. the commission proposal for a council recommendation on a comprehensive approach to the teaching and learning of languages stresses that young people need to be able to express themselves in three languages. first is the language of schooling, which is generally the national language; second is a language of international communication; and also a third language, which is most often relevant to their personal context. it is a priority for the commission to support member states in making language teaching and learning more effective. now, on your third question on language assessment and the recognition of language certificates, as well as support to educational institutions: in the 2014 council conclusions on multilingualism the commission was invited to explore the feasibility of assessing language competences across all member states by using existing national language tests. in 2015, two studies were launched. the aim was to map national tests and compare the tests used across europe to assess the language competences of secondary school pupils. however, these studies concluded that the data available at national level were not comparable. the erasmus+ programme supports language learning. in fact, this is one of its specific objectives. opportunities for pupils to learn abroad, which we intend to boost in the future erasmus programme, will also support the learning of languages. moreover, teachers will benefit from continuous professional development and mobility schemes. we want to ensure that by 2025 every newly graduated language teacher will have spent at least six months learning or teaching abroad. online training projects are also valuable for developing language competences. finally, to your fourth question on the recognition of language competencies in school-leaving diplomas: in may the commission proposed the council recommendation on a comprehensive approach to the teaching and learning of languages. it stresses the importance of acquiring and developing adequate language competences in one’s mother tongue plus two additional languages. to help people reach adequate competence levels, the recommendation promotes the concept of language-aware schools that embed language learning – the learning of both of foreign languages and the language of schooling – across curricula. this enables a focus on pupils’ respective needs, circumstances, abilities and interests. language-aware schools value linguistic diversity and enable students to maintain their entire linguistic repertoire, including their home language or mother tongue when this is not the language of schooling. as a consequence, the prior learning and knowledge of languages which are not part of the curriculum can be formally recognised and can be added to school-leaving certificates. currently it is not possible to acquire recognised qualifications in all european languages. therefore, the commission encourages member states to step up their efforts to make language certificates more widely available.
on behalf of the ppe group. i would like to see today's debate as a great victory for the cause of minority official languages. the small official languages really deserved a debate in the great hall in strasbourg. among the petitions that were the basis of today's debate, there was a bulgarian petition, a particularly impressive petition by the association of bulgarian schools abroad. and although the question and debate started under a petition by bulgarian teachers, very quickly the topic was recognized as a big pan-european topic, namely the protection of the small official languages and especially their most vulnerable speakers - children, students. because it is about protecting those young people whose parents have made use of the fundamental right of free movement, or whose parent, in the case of mixed marriages, has not been given due consideration for their natural command of their mother tongue, especially when it is a mother tongue which is an official language of the european union. this debate, which was initiated by the committee on petitions, shows that when you have a cause, when you have an argument, your voice will be heard by the european parliament, and as was evident from commissioner navracsics' reply, it will even be heard by the european commission. because it's about the principle - the principle of equality of all official languages. there's no going back. moreover, from what i have heard so far, i think that the commission and the european parliament will be ahead of the member states in this direction.
on behalf of the s&d group. the main objective of this petition, which mr malinov mentioned and for which the association of bulgarian schools deserves congratulations, is to offer examinations at the end of secondary education in all the official languages of the european union in certain schools in all the member states. it is not logical for this issue to be resolved at the level of bilateral relations between two individual member states. it is the purpose of the european union and european law to have this issue resolved for all official languages in all member states. every person would like his children, no matter where they live or how many languages they know, to speak his own language, the official language of his country. every language is a gateway to a culture. your own language is the gateway to your own culture. we are very proud that as bulgarians we have given the third alphabet in the european union after the latin and the greek alphabet, and i very much hope that bulgarian children will be able to read and write in cyrillic everywhere, in every member state of the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. i would like to thank everyone who worked on this issue, but first of all i would like to thank the association of bulgarian schools abroad, whose petition laid the foundations for this oral question that we are discussing tonight. i know that the european commission says in such cases: 'it is a matter for the member states.' and we know that very well. specific language policies shall be implemented in the member states. but this is not just about education, it's about mobility. for mobility and the free movement of our most valuable asset knowledge. and really, what more valuable asset does he have than the skills and knowledge of the younger generation? language competence is part of that capital. the acquisition of it is promoted as a key competency. it turns out that in mobility, you can devalue and lose already language competence. i'm giving you an example. a student from bulgaria with two foreign languages, english and french, arrives in france and stays with only one foreign language. his bulgarian no longer counts, does not fit anywhere, is not recognized, is not valued. this depreciation leads to non-maintenance and loss. the local system is basically saying, "you don't need this language". that's what many administrations say about many languages, but are they really superfluous? do the member states with this rare knowledge not need to become the people of ever closer integration of markets and cultures? we are not talking about harmonization, or about education systems, or about examination systems, or about language policies. a mechanism is needed to convey the value of language skills acquired, regardless of which language, how and where they were acquired. not harmonisation, but a mechanism of choice by the countries whether by national examinations, whether by recognition of certificates or otherwise. such a mechanism would appear to be an administrative measure rather than an educational one. in conclusion, i would say that this is not just a question for bulgarian pupils and parents, but for hundreds of thousands of european citizens. mobility means open doors, and the loss of a language closes doors.
there are a number of families in the union whose members live, work and study in another member state. the choice to live, work or study elsewhere should not be at the expense of the connection with one's own language and culture, but on the contrary, quite the opposite. sadly, children in these families often lose touch with their native language. this is partly due to the fact that most eu member states do not provide for the possibility of passing a matriculation examination in so-called minor european languages such as bulgarian, which is a clear example of discrimination. the cultural and linguistic identity of every european union citizen, whether born in bulgaria or england, is something we must defend, and the european union must play a key role in this process. equal opportunities is something we can't compromise. now that we have mutual recognition of diplomas, i think we should have mutual recognition of language competences.
one of the european union's policies is to encourage the study and dissemination of the official languages of the union. in this sense, any language other than the main ones, such as english, french, german and spanish, deserves to be recognised in the education systems of the member states of the union. but most member states do not recognise examinations, diplomas and certificates for languages other than those listed, which is discriminatory against pupils who speak minor languages. more and more families with children are now settling in another eu country, and it is important for them that their children retain their connection with their mother tongue. they will be encouraged if their knowledge of their mother tongue is assessed and the assessments or certificate is recognised when they apply to higher education. students who speak so-called minority languages and whose parents are outside their country of origin should be given the opportunity to learn their mother tongue. according to statistics, there are over 200,000 students from bulgaria alone abroad, but only 15,000 of them are covered by bulgarian schools. it is necessary to provide for the legal possibility of taking a school leaving certificate or other examination in each of the official languages of the european union. including the bulgarian language and the result of such an examination is entered in the diploma of the completed stage of training of the relevant education system of the member state of the european union. this is already being done in the united states of america, for example. it is also normal to do so in the member states of the union. this problem affects not only bulgarian students, but also students from all member states. knowing another language will be a plus for the development of the personality in order to be competitive in the labour market.
a language cannot be big or small. in this context, it is not possible, it is not right and it is not necessary to divide the languages of the european union into major and minor ones, because language is not measured by the size of the territory. the terrain has changed and it's changing. if a language has poetry in it, if a language can make art, then it's great. my language has a 1300 year history only in the balkans of europe. this is the bulgarian language. and the alphabet that we have created and preserved has created, preserved and transmitted a thousand-year-old cultural heritage. we are part of the european union, each of us is different, each of us carries a part of our culture, of our memory. therefore, languages must be preserved, and therefore identity, self-awareness and self-esteem must be preserved through the preservation of language, which happens when we give every citizen of a european union country the opportunity to take their final exams and to preserve their language. that is what we have to do in the european union.
i believe that there is no political force that does not believe that access to culture and participation in cultural events is important for personal growth and enrichment. there's no question about that. the problem is that although there seems to be a political and public consensus on the issue and everyone agrees on how important culture is when drawing up national and european budgets, it turns out that other areas are more prioritized. today in the european parliament's plenary we will again debate the importance of people having access to different cultural activities. however, when we next draw up the next multiannual financial framework, european funds allocated to culture will in all likelihood again be less than 0.5% of the total budget of the european union. as regards the barriers to access to culture, two are clearly identified. one is a financial principle, the other is a geographical principle. a lot of people don't go to cultural events just because they can't afford it. those of them who live in the smaller settlements have nowhere to go. i believe that a nation that does not care for the cultural development of its citizens is doomed.
madam president, turning to the commissioner, let me say that the one and only report so far defines corruption in a broad sense as any ‘abuse of power for private gain’. now, this is the point of departure, on which commissioner malmström, when introducing that report in february 2014, said: ‘we are simply not doing enough. that is true of all member states. existing laws and policies are not enforced enough.’ bulgaria was mentioned yesterday by prime minister rutte; but in that report it says that the netherlands lacks transparency in the financing of political parties, no evidence is forthcoming of foreign bribery being tackled adequately and there is not a focus on prosecuting corruption in international business transactions. so, instead of depending on perceptions, the commission should provide us with a clear, analytical report stating the facts, so that there is no such totally unacceptable shaming of one or another country.
it is important to raise the issue of structural and financial barriers to access to culture at the time when the negotiations for the next multiannual financial framework begin. in the current programming period, the european union allocates just 0.15% of its budget to culture. although europe is known for its rich culture and cultural and historical heritage, adequate funding for the cultural sector is currently lacking at the european union level. the same is true at the national level. culture is only talked about during elections. then there is silence, and one of the main reasons people don't attend cultural events is lack of funds. although the rulers are aware of this obstacle in bulgaria, they still felt that young people do not need a cultural check, and if we ourselves do not have a valuable national policy in the field of culture, european funding cannot help us.
in writing. – we are living in turbulent times in which both the security and the stability of the eu and its member states are under constant threat from various state and non—state actors. to guarantee the safety of its own citizens, the eu and its member states must increase their cooperation in order to make the eu more protected and more independent in the area of defence. the best way to achieve greater cooperation in the field of defence, unarguably is the new european defence industrial development programme (edidp). the edidp, with a eur 500 million budget for 2019—2020, is the best choice to make budget spending more efficient and stimulate innovation in defence. this is so because the european defence industrial development programme aims to fund the development phase (between research and production) of new and upgraded defence products and technologies in the eu, from studies through design, testing and up to the certification and development phases. this collaborative research projects in a long term perspective will stimulate the development of the eu defence market and competition between smes in the field. last but not least, the launching of edidp is another step on the way to building a european defence union, which i fully support.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr freud, and all shadow rapporteurs for their significant efforts in the preparation of this recommendation. it is indeed more important for the european union to point out a list of common priorities for the upcoming united nations general assembly, because the multilateral order is being challenged in a way that we haven’t seen in decades. as many member states are divided on numerous global issues, i am convinced this recommendation will be a good opportunity to show the world community that the eu could speak in one single voice. we need to increase the influence of the eu and its member states inside the united nations system and to stand firm behind our values. i am very pleased that the recommendation clearly highlighted the eu as one of the most dedicated defenders and promoters of human rights, fundamental freedoms, cultural values, diversity, democracy and the rule of law. however, the european union should continue to support multilateral attempts to find lasting political and peaceful solutions to ongoing conflicts in the middle east and north africa, as well as to continue to call for full respect for internationally recognised borders and the territorial integrity of eastern european and south caucasus countries, and to support and reinvigorate diplomatic efforts for a peaceful settlement of ongoing and protracted conflicts. finally, it is important to point out our continued support for environmental sustainability, notably in the fight against climate change, by promoting international measures.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are again talking today about the damage that illegal immigration has caused by chancellor merkel's irresponsible and unwise policy. i repeat my position, which you have heard for four years, a hard border, stopping the illegal movement, fighting the traffickers. but that is why we need trained police officers and that is why we need the establishment of uniform minimum standards for police officers in the european union. whatever country of the european union a european citizen is in, the same level of security and personal protection must be guaranteed, as well as the same quality of services and assistance provided by police officers when necessary. every european citizen should feel equally protected and have an equally good relationship with their police services. it is for this reason that the european parliament and the union must immediately proceed to the adoption of uniform minimum standards for the equipment, equipment and training of police officers. the european parliament should do this by drawing on the findings and analyses of the european police union, an organisation of 15 unions which has spent the last three years researching and documenting the disparities between the various police forces in europe in terms of their uniforms, equipment and training. these conclusions and analyses were presented by the bulgarian participants in the union, the trade union federation of employees in the ministry of internal affairs and i think they definitely deserve your attention. i hope that the austrian presidency will pay attention to these matters.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council, mr prime minister, it is clear that the technical preparations of the presidency of the government have been excellent and this is seen and heard by everyone in the chamber. the technical files, all the things related to digitisation, social pillars, the fight to protect our interests in relation to posted workers and so on. much more important are the few political issues that were raised and defended. there is no bulgarian who does not understand the importance of there being no borders between ohrid and the black sea. that's the thinking in the european union. so the setting of this theme is an undeniable success, as for the european union, because it signals development, it signals the halting of the centrifugal processes, especially after brexit. i can't help but congratulate you on that. i congratulate you, of course, on the policy that the government is pursuing in maintaining balance and good relations between the countries within the european union. preventing the punishment of hungary, poland, preparing for excellent relations with the united kingdom after brexit. they must remain not just our partners, but our closest, dearest friends, partners with whom we can work together in the field of defence and security. i congratulate you for defending a policy that has been my own and that of my political organisation since 2013 regarding illegal migration. for example, the strict protection of external borders, the fight against piracy and the suppression of piracy, the non-application of the unfair clauses in the dublin regulation that harm border states, because, let us remember, our countries, specifically bulgaria, were not colonial countries, did not earn on the basis of foreign resources, foreign labor, and we have no reason to pay foreign bills. for this reason, whoever wants to accept resettlement, it is his personal will, but we cannot and should not do so, and here i encourage you to continue in this direction to protect our interest and the interest of the countries we represent. in conclusion, after the congratulations, i would like to invite my colleague keller to visit pirin again, now in summer it is even more beautiful, to see how beautiful the mountain is developing. i hope she's got the german elevators numbered. last year alone, there were about 300 built there, in bulgaria there was not one built. come on, we'll have a cup of tea, i hope it's interesting. thank you, good luck with the next austrian presidency.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, colleagues and mr borissov, i congratulate you on the end of the bulgarian presidency. i do so without excessive patheticism, because neither europe nor, even less, bulgaria needs it, just as we do not need staged applause because it hinders objective analysis. that's what i'm saying in principle. our presidency has undoubtedly revived european union policies that have been forgotten in recent years. the positive development of enlargement policy and in particular the emphasis on the western balkans cannot be overstated. today, for four of the countries the map seems to be drawn, but we must not forget the other two - kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina. i hope very much that the forthcoming presidencies will continue to work actively for the integration of the western balkans. and despite progress on a number of legislative initiatives, we face vital questions for our common future. the european union continues to be in a difficult situation, with no significant progress on brexit. until last week, there was no clear solution to the refugee crisis, and it is still unclear how we will manage migration and a number of other common challenges. bulgaria receives congratulations on the well-organized events of the presidency calendar, but does not receive confirmation that it is a serious economy with an invitation to the eurozone. therefore, there is no official intention on the part of the bulgarian government. we have not received confirmation that we are a country that can be trusted with an invitation to schengen, despite public promises to do so. together with romania, we continue to be part of the security and verification mechanism. our country can be proud of its contribution to european civilization, of the work of the holy brothers cyril and methodius, the rescue of its jews, its unique modern ethnic model. there are many examples here, but we cannot be proud of the fact that you were the first in europe to embrace extreme nationalism and thereby introduced a duality in the values of the european union. of course, gerb did it with the blessing of the european people's party. it's happening in other countries too. you cannot fight double standards at european level when you are showing double standards in your own country.
mr president, agricultural statistics are a very important element on which the common agricultural policy depends. timely and accurate information is extremely important in crisis situations because, unlike other sectors, the average wage in agriculture is about 20% lower than in other sectors. this is why we need rapid intervention and support mechanisms in crises, as is the case now with the small ruminant plague in my country in the strandzha region. i also think it's very important to reflect the specific cultures and livelihoods of different countries. i find it regrettable that one-legged animals like horses were not included in the scope of agricultural statistics, nor free-ranging pigs, such as the eastern balkan pig, but i hope that the bulgarian authorities will not allow these animals to disappear from the statistics at national level, and with them from the country. i am glad that my proposal to include buffalo in agricultural statistics has been accepted and will become a fact in the new agricultural statistics. beef production produces unique products and with consistent statistical information we can plan and develop the sector adequately.
in writing. – discussing the council conclusions on migration, we need to acknowledge the facts and the context of the debate: today the number of migrants arriving in the eu is much lower than a few years ago. this is partly due to common european efforts, but mostly to the efforts of eu countries at the external borders. we need to recognise that and use those results as valuable time to prepare a sound common european policy on migration. the council conclusions show determination to walk together in the right direction. european citizens expect that from us – 73% of them want to see more eu intervention on migration. with the conclusions, we have the confirmation that the operational tools and resources will be created for that purpose. we need to take care that our actions on migration do not fall victim to populism and continue to be in line with our core values of solidarity. this is the right approach – protecting our external borders and enforcing existing legislation while working closely with the countries of origin outside of the eu and those hosting migrants. the proposals, which came during the meeting of the leaders, were also ideas which the bulgarian presidency has backed in the past six months and which i am confident the austrian presidency will make progress on.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, what you're doing with these proposals is not protecting the social rights of workers, it's not introducing any social justice, it's an attempt to steal business. the proposals are outrageous, illogical and aim at one thing only: to bankrupt entrepreneurs in eastern europe because in western europe there are no truck drivers. and that's why these lobbyists are trying to steal this business. you want to sleep in hotels, there are no hotels. you want to sleep in a secure parking lot, there's no secure parking, and the insurance doesn't apply. you want people to come home in three weeks, you're going to tell someone where to be in three weeks. when we told you that, you said you wanted the trucks to come home every three weeks. why, gentlemen, would trucks miss their trucking friends so much that they want to go home? you say you're green. what happens when these thousands of trucks are moving through europe, burning tons of oil, polluting the environment and closing roads? is that the green one? no, that's hypocrisy. we must vote against these amendments because they divide the european union. you say you want a strong union, and you're splitting it in two! shame on you.
mr president, commissioner, this is not even about transport anymore. it is a question of showing by the vote tomorrow where the european union is heading. the eu is not a party to the treaty, but it is a party to the principles of the treaty, whether it is to the core values for which it was created, such as the single market, the free movement of people and goods, or otherwise to the imposition of protectionism and the restriction of free enterprise. if we go the other way and we don't follow the agreement reached in the transportation committee, the message to all the people will be clear. today it's international shipping, tomorrow it could be everything else, schengen, the eurozone. there is a single market, but only for certain member states, as we are deciding here. i will not participate in this and i will not vote for the creation of a new iron curtain. we're going to go after an entire industry just because the companies in it are registered too far east, too far north or on the periphery of the european union. i urge all colleagues to avoid this mistake and to support tomorrow the exclusion of international drivers from the posted workers directive and to support the achievements of the committee on transport.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate mr tőkés on his comprehensive agreement. since 1990, the relationship between the european union and armenia has been based on the eu—armenia partnership and cooperation agreement. the new sepa between the eu and armenia was negotiated between 2015 and 2017. it aims to strengthen armenia’s political situation and economic integration with the european union. unfortunately, during the last few years, the country has faced serious problems on its way to democracy, and the political situation there have been very complicated. the continuing transformation – indeed the political battle between pro-western and pro—eastern forces in the country – led to protests in april. the resignation of the prime minister was an important step because it represented the will of the people of armenia, and we have to praise armenian citizens for the peaceful transition of power. now it is time for all political leaders and parties to engage in constructive dialogue in order to ensure democracy, the rule of law and political stability. the eu has supported political and social reforms in armenia. we have provided over eur 140 million towards private sector development, improving education, respecting human rights and judicial and public administration reforms. finally, we must continue to pay close attention to what is happening in nagorno—karabakh and give constant support to the peaceful negotiations between both sides.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate our colleagues ms gräßle and mr ashworth on the enormous amount of work done during the last two years on the proposal for a regulation. financial rules play an important role, setting out the principles and procedures governing both the revenue and expenditure parts of the european union budget, as well as the control of eu funds. the main objectives of the commission proposal are simplification and flexibility. we support the broad objectives put forward by the commission, especially the major priority of simplification for recipients of eu funds. this is very important in order to ease the work of the beneficiaries, and to reduce the delays in implementation of a number of eu key programmes. in this regard, we support the commission’s aim of creating a single rule book for recipients. in order to achieve maximum results we need to have impact assessment preceding any future substantial changes of the financial rules, as well as increasing cross-reliance on audits. nevertheless, the commission should maintain the right to audit if it deems it necessary. we welcome the measures on budgetary flexibility. these were needed in order to enhance the ability of the eu budget to adapt to changing circumstances and to respond to unexpected developments. however, we need to maintain a balance between flexibility, sound financial management and the rights of the budgetary authority. during the work on the proposal, the effective use of financial instruments has been improved. the financial rules will be a step towards a budget focused on results if we further embed performance into spending decisions. we support the agreement reached during the trilogues. we believe that the simplification of eu financial rules will contribute to reducing the costs and time needed to implement eu funds, as well as decreasing the level of errors. it should also increase the impact of the policies and their results in the process of practical implementation.
mr president, in less than a year, european citizens will have to elect a new composition of the european parliament. i believe it is extremely important that they are informed about what exactly the union gives them as rights and freedoms, how each decision has a direct impact on the daily lives of each of us. the functioning of the european union is not sufficiently represented in the curricula, and that is unfortunate. it's a shame because people don't have the full information about the opportunities that our membership in this community offers them. in this sense, programmes such as erasmus+, the european solidarity corps and europe for citizens are even more important. at this stage, they are what allow our citizens to have access to other european cultures and to feel european on an equal footing with others. that is why i think that the 2019 budget should have significantly more funds for these programmes.
mr president, the united nations has its contribution to make to the world dialogue. unfortunately, however, recent years have shown that the rules and the system by which the organization operates are not producing the expected results. the decision-making and blocking of decisions in the security council is a major reason why a number of issues remain blocked. the composition of the security council also does not reflect the current geopolitical situation. it is unacceptable that the largest donor of humanitarian aid and the most successful peace project, the european union, should not have its place and its voice be heard. the european union is also at the forefront of a very serious flow of migration, which, in addition to economic reasons, is also caused by the worsening political situation. the european union has demonstrated its ability and willingness to contribute to the global goals. that is why i have supported today's report.
mr. chairman, i just wanted to add to the memory of all those who died and to inform colleagues that unfortunately on august 25 in bulgaria in a terrible accident 17 people were killed and dozens were injured. just to add to what we've already done, to the memory of all the other people who died.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i will begin my speech with the concluding words of the rapporteur, who said that this is ‘one good report’. and indeed, i believe it is a good report, and moreover it is a timely report. before going into detail, i would like to share a few figures with you. almost two million citizens in northern ireland benefited from eur seven billion in eu funding from 2007 to 2017. and behind these numbers, behind the statistics, there are people’s lives. people’s lives that have been changed because of eu cohesion policy. i believe this is one of the textbook examples of how eu cohesion policy is changing the environment. moreover, this contribution has been done with cross-financing and coordination with the peace programme so, yet again, the european union has shown that it knows how to work to bring back peace – and peace is priceless. here, i would like to congratulate commissioner crețu, because she dedicated herself to a better-working cohesion policy, and i think that as we approach the end of our mandate, we can show some very good results of what the european union has achieved with its cohesion policy.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, three years ago i had the honour of being rapporteur on the legislative report on the specific measures for greece relating to support from the structural investment funds on behalf of the committee on regional development of this parliament. today we are monitoring the implementation of the specific measures under regulation (eu) 2015/1839 designed to provide support to greece at a crucial moment of liquidity shortage and lack of public investment. this is beautifully reflected in the report by my colleague, mrs arrimont. i would like to emphasise here the important role of cohesion policy as the union's main investment instrument for strengthening competitiveness, economic growth and reducing inequalities, given that the european structural investment funds represent the largest source of direct investment in greece. the regi report consistently stresses that the structural funds have a significant positive impact on gross domestic product and social, economic and territorial cohesion in general. i take this opportunity to welcome the fact that, thanks to the european union funding under this regulation, the number of projects declared as uncompleted has been significantly reduced and the absorption of the structural funds has been significantly improved, with greece being the first member state to fully utilise the available resources and reaching a 100% absorption rate for the previous period. in addition, as of march 2018, greece has a 28% implementation rate for the current programming period, placing it among the best performing member states overall. the cohesion policy through these specific measures has therefore played its part. at the same time, i would like to stress the importance of structural reforms and expect greece to continue to take full advantage of the opportunities provided by the structural reform support programme with a view to creating and strengthening a suitable investment environment.
mr president, with today's vote in the european parliament, the european solidarity corps is now a reality. i am glad that we were able to secure separate funding for the corps without affecting programmes like erasmus+ and having mixed funding. in this way, we will open up new opportunities for young people across the european union to join voluntary organisations and feel socially and civically useful. one of the aims of the programme is to encourage countries that do not have legislation regulating the voluntary sector to develop one. unfortunately, my country bulgaria during the bulgarian presidency of the council of the european union was leading on this dossier and at the same time proposed a bill, but it is still not a fact. it is high time in bulgaria to stop liking ourselves to brussels and look at the national interest so that volunteering, which is declining in bulgaria, can be given a chance to develop and legislate.
mr president, i supported the report on language equality in the digital age because i believe that it finally puts the issue of the existence of inequalities in language on the agenda. while promoting linguistic diversity is one of the european union's priorities, there is a wide gap between widely used and less widely used languages. this abyss is even more visible in the age of digitalization. as you can see, my colleagues here from different political groups and i agree that whether our mother tongue is bulgarian or english determines what information we have access to. it's true that english is the dominant language. however, there are member states, like my home country of bulgaria, where less than 20% of people speak english. these same people do not have equal access, for example, to information about the opportunities offered by european programmes. what equal opportunity are we talking about? i hope that the european parliament's resolution will be an important step in overcoming this very discrimination.
- what? the chair, madam high representative, friendships are tested in the face of adversity. the united states and the european union remain the two most important pillars of world democracy. global challenges, but also the memory of those who died in terrorist attacks, obliges us to deepen our cooperation, not the other way around. in the balkans, for example, this cooperation is a stabilising factor and supports both european integration and reforms for greater prosperity and security in the region. combating the sources of terrorism, intelligence sharing, defence cooperation, cyber security and the fight against fake news are areas where we need to do much more and where both the european union and the united states need to step up their cooperation. however, we cannot but mention and welcome the lack of reciprocity in the visa regime for five european union countries. i call again on both the united states congress and the us administration to adopt appropriate decisions in this direction to eliminate this injustice, and on the european commission to issue the delegated act temporarily suspending the visa-free regime for us citizens travelling to the european union. it would be an expression of solidarity and an additional motivation for our colleagues in the united states, because they do not seem to be taking this discrimination issue seriously.
in writing. – in the past couple of years our relationship with the usa has been quite dynamic: evolving and progressing through our cooperation on action in the western balkans, north korea and ukraine; but also being challenged by disagreements on the nuclear deal with iran, the paris agreement and the un. eu-us trade relations, constituting the largest economic relationship in the world with usd 1 trillion in bilateral trade, have deteriorated because of the decision by the current us administration to impose tariffs on the steel and aluminium. when the usa takes such an approach, we should act accordingly and protect our citizens’ rights. and we have acted in the best way by seeking dialogue. i welcome president juncker’s successful visit to washington dc in july. he showed our readiness to build synergies and to cooperate with the usa in areas such as trade and energy so we can together push for global solutions and fair conditions. still, we should aim for balanced relations with the usa, with the rights of european citizens well protected and guaranteed. i call for further dialogue and cooperation, as the usa has been our natural partner for many years and will continue to be one for many years to come.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i would like to thank mr belder for his comprehensive report. undoubtedly china is one of the most important and valuable strategic partners of the eu. i warmly welcome the good progress which has been made by deepening the eu-china comprehensive strategic partnership. i believe that the strengthening of this partnership will create many opportunities, and will have a significant global impact when it comes to addressing global challenges, common security threats, climate change, global economic growth and the promotion of multilateralism. on the other hand, the eu has pledged that human rights, democracy and the rule of law are at the centre of its relations with all third countries, including strategic partners like china. unfortunately, china continues to have a bad human rights record. the authorities must stop their repression of human rights defenders, activists, ethnic and religious minorities. i strongly believe that strict restrictions on muslim and christian practices, including a complete ban of ethnic language and culture in the case of the uighur language and minority, do not fit with china’s ambitions for leadership in a democratic and liberal world order and have been a real obstacle in our growing partnership.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, one of the oldest forms of money laundering is through the physical transfer of money across borders, naturally without being declared. even today, despite the increasing use of non-cash payment methods, between 46% and 82% of all transactions worldwide are made in cash. money laundering through physical transfers across borders is linked to both organised crime and terrorism. in recent years, due to the imposition of strict controls on bank payments, undeclared cash moved across borders has become even more important for the financing of terrorist activities. this requires tightening controls on cash entering and leaving the union and updating the rules that the european union has had in place since 2005. for example, experience in member states over the years has shown that criminals are innovative and use gold bars and even some types of prepaid cards to move illicit funds across borders in order to circumvent existing legislation. in order to be able to respond to these developments, customs services need to have the appropriate powers to carry out checks while not infringing the rights of ordinary passengers. i believe that the trialogue agreement we are voting on tomorrow achieves these objectives modernises the control rules, supports the work of customs officials and strengthens cooperation between member states.
mr president, i voted against this report because i and some of my colleagues still have reasonable doubts that the report is being backed by the very lobbying interests of the big search engines. these search engines are trying to monopolize this market, to restrict access to the internet, to restrict freedom of speech, to filter opinions, to filter information, and ultimately to threaten the work of independent online media. there's a lot of doubt that lobbying interests are getting in the way of a good solution. they prevent the rights of authors from being protected, the rights of publishers from being protected, the rights of information users from being protected. this report is a shining example of the impotence and incompetence of the brussels bureaucracy. she turned a theoretically good solution into a huge lobbying scandal. that's why i'm not supporting the report.
mr president, i voted against the rapporteur's proposal for a new copyright directive because i still do not think it strikes a balance between respecting the rights of consumers and fairly paying copyright holders. i think it's a shame that the debate has been artificially shifted and simplified to whether we are for or against artists getting a fair return for their work. i don't think there's anyone who can say openly that they don't want to support european artists. the problem is that as representatives in the european parliament, who have to defend the interests of their fellow citizens, we have a duty to ensure that their rights and freedoms are protected in the online space. i cannot support legislation that, by claiming to protect authors, will impose censorship on consumers and restrict their freedom on the web. filtering of consumer content not only goes against the fundamental rights and freedoms we so zealously defend, but also carries the risk of manipulation and political propaganda. we all remember the case of cambridge analytica and facebook and how the algorithm used data from the platform to manipulate public opinion, which shocked everyone. apparently, the memory of those who support reforms of this kind is too short.
mr president, today is a sad and shameful day for the european parliament. today, for the first time, this parliament was divided and this union was divided. a group of people who think they have the right to decide for the hungarian people, for the romanian people, for the czech people, today decided to punish a sovereign government for the decisions it has made. the hungarian government is elected by the hungarian people and they have the full right to decide how to run their country. not to mention that these are the right solutions: curbing illegal immigration, zero migration, fighting islamism are legitimate causes. we all see what happens on the streets of germany every day, on the streets of france every day. i absolutely do not accept that a handful of anonymous bureaucrats or people with strange views, understandings and feelings about themselves have the leftist marxist idea that they are something more than others and can make decisions for them. this is not the european union, this is the soviet union. in 1989, i was nine years old and remember little about the soviet union, but what i read makes it clear. the soviet union made these decisions. we want a european union of free countries, sovereign countries, not the soviet union.
mr president, commissioner, we live in the internet age, we are working to make europe a leader in digital technology, we want our citizens to benefit from the opportunities offered by the internal market. we have free movement of people, capital, services, goods, and yet for years our union has lacked a single information point where businesses and citizens can get information on the huge development potential that the 28 member states and 500 million consumers offer. this is unacceptable, this is a missed benefit for years. ninety-two per cent of consumers and businesses are not familiar with online services provided at european level and do not know where to turn in case of a problem. europe wins when it delivers concrete results and solutions for its citizens, and that is why it is important to adopt this regulation. with the opening of the portal, europe will save nearly one million hours of its citizens' time - time in which they can realise their ideas, start a business and turn it into a reality, or share time with loved ones. providing high-quality and easily accessible information online could save european businesses between €11 and €55 billion a year. the single digital gateway is not just a database or a directory. it is a place that will change the face of our internal market break down barriers, give students, entrepreneurs and workers equal access to the information they need when they travel, when they work, when they study or train abroad, when they retire, move, register a car in another country. europe wins when it treats all its citizens equally. this is why the portal will be available in all european languages to every citizen free of charge. i would like to thank the colleagues who worked on the file, as well as the bulgarian presidency of the council, for their instrumental support in making the single digital gateway a reality for european citizens.
mr president, allow me to congratulate the rapporteur on his efforts in this extremely important area and on his timely report. it is very important to talk about innovation, about autonomous vehicles and about reducing carbon dioxide emissions, about ending illegal hiring practices and providing suitable working conditions. on the other hand, i would like to draw particular attention, especially to commissioner bulz, to the fact that it is not possible to introduce contradictory practices with the two mobility packages. in mobility package 1 we ban the liberalisation of truck transport, and in mobility package 2 we continue with the liberalisation of bus transport. in mobility package 1 we want to ban cabotage because we think it's bad for trucks, and in mobility package 2 we think we should allow cabotage over 100 kilometres. in mobility package 1 we want to apply the posting of workers directive to the transport of goods by road, and in mobility package 2 we want to not apply this directive. i have the impression that the commission's approach is very diverse and varied, and it is not something it wants to be remembered for.
member of the commission. – mr president, of course all european consumers, irrespective of where they live, should have equal access to the same high-quality products. that is basic. this is one of the basic principles of the european single market. over the past 12 months, the commission has made decisive progress in addressing the issue of dual quality. we have worked with the member state authorities and have provided concrete guidance on the relevant legislation, as well as co-funding for tests and enforcement capacities. the commission’s joint research centre, in close cooperation with all the stakeholders concerned, has developed a harmonised testing methodology, which is now being implemented in an eu-wide testing campaign. the majority of the member states beyond those that have initiated and carried out tests at national level have agreed to participate in this exercise, which will provide us for the first time with authoritative and comparable evidence regarding the scope and dimension of the problem. the commission is confident that the initial results, which will be obtained by the end of the year, will help us to define our methodology and to determine what is a significant difference noticeable to consumers when they are faced with products marketed as identical. this comprehensive action would not have been possible without the leadership that parliament has shown, and i therefore wish to thank all of you, and in particular the rapporteur, for the excellent work that has been done and for your support. you are aware that the commission has proposed to amend the unfair commercial practices directive in the broader context of our new deal for consumers. allow me to thank the european parliament and the rapporteur, in particular, for swift action on that proposal. making consumers believe that products which are sold under the same brand, and with the same or very similar packaging, are the same across several member states, when in fact this is not the case, is an illegal business practice. let me assure you that the commission remains fully committed to countering unfair commercial practices relating to the issues of dual quality of products. our legislative package on the new deal for consumers can be a decisive step in the right direction. i therefore call on everyone in this room to support the adoption of this ambitious and important package before the elections.
rapporteur on the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. mr president, mr olga and mr bijana, commissioner, there will be no 'two-speed europe' when there is no 'double standard against different european citizens'. analyses carried out in a number of countries, including my own, bulgaria, have shown that despite years of efforts and appeals, the vicious practice of 'same product and packaging, but different contents and proportions' persists. i welcome commissioner jourová's efforts to amend directive 29 of 2005, but i strongly believe that the ambition of the proposal should be greater because millions of europeans expect more. this will be done by explicitly including the prohibition of the so-called 'double standard' in annex 1 to the directive. 'local preferences' is an argument that businesses have used to try to address citizens' concerns. please, this is just not wise. how can local preferences be defined for three-month-old babies, and why do products from one class, supposedly adapted to local tastes, have significant differences in content and proportions? it is time to end the 'product discrimination' against millions of central and eastern europeans. it is high time that the union put all europeans under a common denominator.
mr president, the scandalous fact that the same brands are sold with different content in different parts of europe is a very clear indication of the attitude of entrepreneurs from some western countries. selling a brand with different quality means that you believe that people in different parts of europe deserve to consume different things at the same price. and if you have a choice in carbonated drinks or something like that whether you buy it or not, when you're talking about different quality of baby food, this is where things get grotesque. they clearly show an unforgettable colonial mentality. they clearly show the division of the european union into the core and the periphery and the belief that the periphery can consume food and drink with different contents, which obviously make them of lower quality. and the excuse that they're not harmful doesn't work here. it's not about whether they're harmful or not. it's about someone thinking that people in eastern and central europe deserve to consume lower-quality goods. this hypocrisy must end!
mr president, the single european market reduces barriers to trade and makes it easier to make a profit. it brings benefits to the users, but not when it is abused. since there are double standards in food and other goods, it needs improvement. - what? by improving the regulatory framework, its strict enforcement, more controls and higher sanctions targeting unfair trading practices. the issue of food and the health of european citizens is not open to compromise. as a consumer and a citizen of a country affected by the double standard, i insist that all european consumers enjoy their full rights under union law. the key word in overcoming problems is 'responsibility'. responsibility of everyone and everyone in the chain european commission, governments, supervisory authorities, producers, traders and consumers.
mr president, yesterday jean-claude juncker again mentioned that europe must be big on big issues and small on small issues. but we, as part of our societies, know that there are issues that only seem small, but actually leave a big impression on our fellow citizens. big politics is sometimes big only in the corridors of our institutions. one such small but actually very big issue is the double standards of products in europe. a drink, a cosmetic or a chocolate sold at a price and in a packaging of a well-known brand but of poor quality does not undermine confidence in the brand itself but in the european ability to ensure equal treatment for our citizens throughout the union. that is why we must ensure that there are common rules on the quality of goods for all europeans. we in the epp also insist on having a common methodology for food testing developed by the european commission's joint research centre across europe. we must not forget that second-rate goods do not create second-rate europeans, but only second-rate europe.
mr president, for over three decades cambodia has been ruled by an authoritarian leader, hun sen. prime minister hun sen and his party use violence, politically motivated prosecutions and widespread corruption to intimidate and suppress any kind of political opposition. fear of losing the national elections in july 2018 prompted a major crackdown. the primary opposition, the cambodia national rescue party, has been dissolved by the courts, with a leader, sam rainsy, forced into exile and another, kem sokha, jailed. the government restricts independent media and civil society groups through forced closures, threats, intimidation and arbitrary detention. i call on the cambodian authorities to put end to all forms of harassment, abuse and politically motivated criminal charges against members of the political opposition, human rights defenders, trade unions, labour rights advocates and other civil society activists, and journalists of course. we need to use our diplomatic tools to protect the fundamental rights of cambodian people to elect and to be elected, to guarantee pluralism and democratic principles.
in writing. establishing permanent cooperation on health technology assessment is a step towards better and faster access for patients to quality and modern healthcare and reducing health inequalities. the european medicines agency shall issue a single marketing authorisation valid throughout the european union. so why is it necessary to evaluate the clinical aspects of health technologies 28 times? the pooling of resources and the exchange of expertise will be of particular benefit to member states with insufficient capacity to carry out independent assessments of the added therapeutic value of innovative health technologies. however, cooperation at european level should not replace national authorities. on the contrary, support and funding is needed to build capacity in this area in each member state. i believe that a transparent and non-commercial framework for health technology assessment will allow scarce public resources to be used more rationally and improve patients' access to proven effective therapies.
in writing. – technology gives opportunity to our citizens, businesses, and to the public administration in our member states. however, we, the members of the european parliament, must give opportunity for technology to thrive. we must make sure that we have legal certainty for european companies. we must create european legislative framework, otherwise we risk patch-work - a fragmentation of the digital single market into 28 different blocks. blockchain technology is still developing, yet it can deliver higher efficiencies in providing services. perhaps the best example of a sector that embraces blockchain is the financial services, but in the “resolution on distributed ledger technologies and blockchains: building trust with disintermediation” we also look into how it can affect other areas and where it can have a greater impact - energy sector, health care sector, education and others. i have been long-standing advocate for regulation for innovation and i see this resolution as a clear signal that europe stand in support of blockchain and technology, and i very much welcome the commitment of the european commission to invest up to 300 million euros by 2020.
we talk a lot about fair and equal development of all european regions. we also often talk about cohesion policy. unfortunately, the statistics are quite different. every year, rural settlements disappear from the map of europe, and the income gap between economic centres and other regions grows. young people are leaving these regions in search of new opportunities. all this is happening despite billions of investments and various projects and programmes. the fragmentation of european policies also contributes to the fragmentation of the different regions. it is time for a pan-european strategy for rural, mountain and remote regions. the european regions must be approached in a holistic way. only then can we give a new economic model to these regions, which have many constraints and difficulties. of course, the member states also have a very important role to play in this process. it's about time that countries like mine, bulgaria, finally start implementing strategies for mountain regions, like the rhodopes, strandzha, stara planina. these regions have enormous potential, but it is high time they were brought out of the bottle. there must be guaranteed funding for mountain regions, for example at least 10% of the cohesion funds should be distributed directly to mountain regions. additional support for young people, those who produce in these regions and create jobs. this is the right way.
madam president, in the uk and recently also in macedonia, referendums have put countries in a dead-end street. it is very clear that brexit cannot be a success story, either for the united kingdom or for the european union. we would warmly welcome the uk back in if they decide to ask their citizens again and this is the will of the people. brexit is the most irrational step in recent history which, if it not changed, will have a negative impact for the decades. you cannot have all eu benefits without being a member of the european union. i would like also to say some words on macedonia. i hope the council will reconfirm that the door for macedonia is open for the european integration of this country and i’d like also to wish a lot of success to our countrymen there, for their european atlantic way. european atlantic integration remains the only way to secure stability in the western balkan region and to achieve historical reconciliation. i hope that the political class in that country won’t fall prey to populism and cheap pr in the days and months to come. on migration. migration will be one of the most crucial topics in the next european elections and we need to prove to the european citizens that more europe means more security and prosperity. the european parliament has put the proposals on the table already, and i hope that the national leaders in the council will swallow their egoism and find a workable solution to the problem. among the concrete steps to tackle the migration flow are security on the external borders, prevention against radicalisation and terror and a united foreign and security policy in the middle east and africa.
mr. prime minister, europe is in a difficult global situation. traditional partners are changing their policies and threats to prosperity and peace in the world are increasing, such as migration to europe or shifting production and trade wars. many people believe that we can change these global processes by trying to take a step back in history. i believe that to reassure our citizens, to guarantee their lives and well-being, there is no point in looking back. instead of trying to control the things that can't be controlled, we should turn to other goals. we need to build a strong economy that guarantees us high added value so that we have the resources to create new policies or partnerships. we need an economy that creates new, affordable jobs for our citizens who have lost their jobs. we need an economy that makes us independent in the event of a global crisis. for me, the answer is to embrace technology and empower the digital economy. estonia is one of the symbols of this approach, and i congratulate you on it, and i hope that europe will increasingly embrace this development model.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, rural, mountainous and remote areas make up 80% of the territory of the european union and more than half of the union's population live in them. however, at the same time, many of them lack a range of services, such as social services, and quality physical or digital infrastructure. it is no secret that the population, especially in mountain regions, is ageing because of the lack of prospects and opportunities for economic development. but the blame for this lies with the governments of those countries, which do not take the necessary steps to make our recommendations available to the people. in bulgaria, a targeted investment programme was drawn up almost two years ago to support the development of north-west bulgaria, the rhodopes, strandzha and sakharov. unfortunately, it seems that strategy has been left on someone's desk. i therefore call on the bulgarian government to take concrete measures as soon as possible to create economic opportunities for the development of these bulgarian regions. the people of smolensk, strandzha-sakar and northwestern bulgaria are as european as anyone else in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, with all due respect, let no one be offended, but the discussion of an unconditional basic income is a kind of communist utopia. it is completely unworkable, unworkable and unreasonable. the far greater problem of the european union right now is the huge difference in the standard of living between the eastern and western parts of the european union. this is what we should be fighting, not talking about utopias. and it's very strange and inexplicable that it's the socialists, the leftists in this room, who support the theft of business, who support the violation of the free market, who support the introduction of restrictive measures in the field of road transport, who will steal business from hundreds of thousands of people in eastern europe, who want an unconditional basic income. what we have to do in this chamber is not to allow the idea of a common market to be disrupted, which would allow people from eastern europe to work in the common market and live normally and with dignity. not to talk about utopias, not to talk about things that don't exist and are impossible.
my dear mrs. the chair, the honourable member commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the agreement reached on the regulation on the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders. the union legal framework in this area was quite backward and did not reflect the modern development of european and national legislation. currently, 99% of the potential proceeds of crime are not confiscated and remain at the disposal of criminals. the modernisation of the legal framework for the confiscation of assets acquired through criminal activity is therefore a much-needed and effective tool for combating crime and terrorism at the level of the european union as a whole. the new provisions will facilitate mutual recognition, which means that all judgments in criminal matters given in one eu country will in principle be directly recognised and enforced in another member state. the european union countries will now be able to confiscate, at the request of another member state, assets that are not the direct proceeds of crime, as well as assets belonging to a third party. i believe that this will now make the confiscation of property in other member states quicker and more efficient. in addition, property may be confiscated even if there is no conviction, for example if the suspect has escaped. the introduction of standard certificates and procedures, as well as common eu-wide deadlines, such as a 45-day deadline for recognition of a confiscation order and, in urgent cases, a 48-hour deadline for recognition and 48-hours for execution of freezing orders, will allow for a rapid response by the competent authorities. i believe that this european cooperation instrument will ensure the effective seizure and confiscation of criminal assets throughout the european union. this will contribute to enhancing the security of the union by combating the financing of crime, including terrorist activities.
mr president, despite data being one of the most important assets today for a progressive economy, it is only now we are granting the free movement of non—personal data beyond national borders. to be honest, it took us quite some time. two years ago what was being discussed was non legislative; a cornerstone of the dsm was put into question. for some, the growth generated by the eu data market, which amounts to 7% per year and up to eur 84 billion by 2020 was not a good enough reason to grant the free movement of non—personal data within the eu. this is why i would like to congratulate vice—president ansip for standing firm behind some of us members of this house, as well as stakeholders, in delivering a very good proposal. my congratulations goes also to the rapporteur and the estonian and bulgarian presidency for their excellent work. this morning, during the future of europe debate, i said something that i want to repeat now: we cannot address people’s concerns and challenges by looking back in time, but only by looking forward. forward—looking legislation and regulation is what will drive change in europe and this legislation is one of them – a regulation that will bring innovation to europe and show that europe is open for business, for cloud computing and for big data analytics. so stay tuned and watch this space.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union has one of the most stringent anti-money laundering legislation in the world and applies extremely high standards to prevent this type of crime. however, in the last six months, several european banks in different countries have clearly demonstrated how the existing rules are not always applied in practice and are even sometimes deliberately ignored for financial gain. let me be clear: no increase in profits for the banks can be based on breaking any laws. the events of recent months have further demonstrated that the fight against money laundering is not limited to the private sector. it is also necessary to have a continuous coordinated effort by the supervisory authorities of the member states and a continuous and unhindered exchange of information between competent authorities in order to combat this type of crime more effectively. given the way banks operate in the european union through their passporting rights for the different member states, it is logical to think about stronger european supervision. but whatever changes are made, they must be the result of careful analysis and discussion. in addition, an appropriate balance must be struck between coordinated action and the sovereignty of the member states. ladies and gentlemen, the fight against money laundering is a continuous process that requires continuous efforts and bold, practical solutions. the end result should be that the billions of euros that we currently lose annually as a result of this crime should be redirected to the benefit of society.
author. – mr president, madam commissioner, colleagues, sadly muslim ethnic minorities of uyghurs and kazakhs in xinjiang, china, are subject to arbitrary detention, torture, restrictions on religious practice and culture. nothing can justify the arbitrary detention and forced disappearance of one million human beings. innocent people, mothers, fathers, brothers, sisters and friends have all disappeared. where are all those people? what is happening inside the so—called re—education camps? children are reportedly being separated from their families. we cannot be silent as human rights violations are committed on such a massive scale. i call for the immediate release of all those who are held in arbitrary detention in the internment camps and of arbitrarily detained political prisoners, such as ilham tohti. starting from this resolution, there is a need for more concrete action. we need answers. we need an independent investigation in the region.
my dear mrs. president, ladies and gentlemen, i voted in favour of the report by mrs quelu about the package of measures relating to the public procurement strategy. the commission adopted its last package of such measures in 2014, with a number of member states having difficulty implementing the measures in their national legislation within the deadline and with the commission initiating criminal proceedings against four of them for non-implementation. this shows that it is time for new measures that take account of the administrative specificities of each member state of the european union, but also have clear and flexible systems for implementation. this package of measures provides member states with the opportunity to modernise public procurement. i supported the report because the main recommendations it makes are to improve the transparency of contracts and tenders by increasing online publication, improving access to public procurement contracts for smes. i believe that all of them are the basis for the proper functioning of the public procurement system and the spending of funds in an appropriate way with visible and useful results for the citizens of the countries.
ladies and gentlemen, public procurement plays a very important role in building the social and physical infrastructure of any country. i share the criticism that for nearly 55% of public procurement in the european union, the most important selection criterion is the 'lowest price' factor. this creates conditions for unfair or unfair competition from larger and more solvent players. and it's the indigenous people who suffer most. lack of quality also accompanies the 'lowest price' phenomenon, as was unfortunately shown by the accident in svoge, bulgaria, in which 18 people died. there are abuses and overpricing in the execution of a number of public contracts in my country, such as 'school fruit' and 'school milk'. it's time this stopped. i support the report on the measures related to the public procurement strategy because i believe that procedures should become more transparent, more easily traceable by introducing electronic services by the end of 2018 at the latest and that offenders and their trustees should be punished swiftly and proportionately.
madam president, in today's world of new technologies and the speed with which they enter our daily lives, we must take the necessary steps to ensure that information is used wisely and in a way that does not jeopardise the processes in which it is used. i support proposals to ban data localisation requirements except where there are imperative public security considerations. the free movement of data within the european union will play an important role in development and innovation and will play a significant role in achieving data-driven growth and innovation. member states' public authorities and bodies will benefit from greater freedom of choice in the providers of data-related services, from more competitive prices and from more efficient provision of services to citizens. that is why i supported the report.
madam president, in discussing next year’s eu budget i would like to draw your attention to several topics. firstly, concerning the budget of the european parliament. the overall figure is at a level of eur 1.999 billion. thus parliament’s share of heading 5 will stay at the level of 18.5%, which is the lowest in the last 15 years. secondly, concerning the budgets of other institutions. their importance for the implementation of the union’s policies is significant. if we want these institutions to function with the highest possible effectiveness they should be properly financed. we propose to restore the cuts to the budgets of the european court of justice, the committee of the regions, the economic and social committee and the european external action service, with some upper adjustments. within section iii there are drastic cuts to the lines related to turkeyʼs ipa ii funds. from the commission’s proposed draft budget of eur 244.1 million for the ‘support for political reforms’ line, the council has cut almost 60% of the sum. there is an extra decrease of eur 66.8 million on the other two lines, while eur 50 million of them are linked to the facility for refugees in turkey, which is against the interests of the union. our opinion is that these cuts would deprive the commission of its leverage to properly manage relations between the eu and turkey. it will ultimately have a negative effect on brussels—ankara relations. finally, excluding the excessive and unjustified cuts, we believe that the overall approach to next year’s budget is correct and we expect our position to be maintained during the conciliation process.
in writing. global plastic production has increased 20-fold since the 1960s and is expected to double in the next 20 years. according to some projections, by 2050, there will be more plastic waste than fish in the oceans if we don't take urgent action. limiting plastic pollution is necessary to keep beaches and seas clean, while protecting the health of european citizens from the negative impact of marine litter that breaks down in the water and eventually ends up on our tables. on the other hand, it also represents an economic opportunity, both to reduce the loss of valuable resources from single-use plastic materials and to improve the quality of tourist services. that is why i support measures to encourage the shift towards cleaner alternative products that are environmentally and health-friendly, and to increase the recycling and recovery of plastic waste. however, the entire responsibility for pollution and prevention cannot be shifted to producers alone. education, raising awareness of the negative effects and changing public attitudes towards waste, as well as improving infrastructure, play a role.
mr president, a few days ago in bulgaria an extremely serious and horrific criminal offence took place. a young lady was murdered in an extremely brutal manner. and here, in this institution, in the hall of the european parliament, the people who speak out most against fake news have started to spread and create fake news. chairmen of parliamentary groups, commissioners rushed to link this murder to the work of the victim and to declare it a murder because of the occupation of the victim, who is a journalist. after it was revealed that the murder was committed by a criminal criminal a bulgarian citizen of roma origin no excuse followed, but it had to happen. for three years now, we've been talking about fake news, about how we shouldn't allow this kind of fake news, and it's in this very room that people who claim to fight this fake news are spreading it. i want every single person who spread this fake news to apologize for it.
ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a scandal, a crisis of confidence, and i am glad that the european commission will not let this crisis pass unchecked. but i want to look at the problem from a different angle. we create our own digital identities. in the beginning, her life really depends on our will and we really control things. but no one tells us, and probably no one could tell us, from what point onward, the data of our digital selves is being used by other people and organizations for their own purposes. we don't realize that our digital selves contain information that, when combined with hundreds of thousands, millions of other digital selves, actually represents value, can be bought and sold and used in so-called big data analytics and the creation of infographics, which in turn can be used to manipulate and target us individually as consumers and voters. of course, we will do our best to create appropriate regulation, but i always have a suspicion that our legislative activities will be backward the moment they are created. we'll always be behind the new technology. so i'd like to turn to the other, the real protection -- common sense, restraint, digital competence. and that's something we need to educate especially our young people about, because the digital space doesn't encourage those qualities. of course, there is no more reliable barrier to manipulation than a responsible democratic figure armed with the appropriate regulations, which it is our duty to make.
in writing. misusing the truth, facts and trust of the people and voters is not a patent of digital platforms. it has unfortunately existed and will continue to exist in the analogue, digital and paper worlds. the only thing that's changed with the new platforms is the ease of access to them. what we need to do is put in place clear rules so that platforms can take responsibility by controlling the communications environment they've created and monitor much better for harmful content and misuse of personal data. but we also have another task, and that is to impose rules and sanctions on those who want to take advantage of the lack of clear rules in digital platforms. and these are first of all political parties and candidates and their affiliated organizations. neither facebook nor google nor any of the other platforms can escape their responsibility, but we must not forget that the main interest of this abuse is precisely in the political organizations and candidates. and they should get the utmost rigor that we're capable of for wanting to manipulate the elections of citizens by replacing honest political competition for their trust with a competition of lies and manipulation.
mr. chairman, i want to say that i do not share the false shock of the brutal murder of saudi journalist jamal khashoggi. if anyone pretends to be surprised, he is a hypocrite. i don't share it because there's no surprise in the actions of the intelligence services of a state brutally theocratic islamic dictatorship. saudi arabia has repeatedly supported groups linked to islamic terrorism whose methods are no different from those used in the murder of the journalist. let's face it, saudi arabia is nothing more than an early version of an islamic state that has its own international legitimacy. saudi arabia is the home of the most extreme radical and barbaric doctrine of islam lahabism. saudi arabia is spreading this islamism beyond its borders. i have given examples in this room many times of how saudi foundations have generously sponsored radical islam in europe from the balkans to the united kingdom. it's time to state the problem clearly and emphatically. islamism and radical islam must be eradicated from europe. otherwise, brazen murders like the one of a journalist in istanbul will become more and more common. it is right, however, that all these countries here, for example president macron, make their position clear and stop selling arms and stop profiting from the blood of the petrodollars of the islamic state.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the european asylum support office (easo) is supporting the member states in preparing their policies in relation to the migration flows. easo is delivering technical and operational support to those states whose asylum systems are subject to excessive refugee pressure by deploying expert teams. all of this necessitates the recovery of the full capacity of the eu agencies as soon as possible. after parliament’s decision to postpone the granting of discharge to easo for the year 2016, a number of developments occurred, answering our recommendations. a remedial action plan was produced, proposing a set of measurable objectives and deliverable aims to reinforce the internal governance of the office, rebuild internal capacity and restore trust. in addition, the office took some practical measures to overcome the mistakes made in the field of procurement. the former executive director was released from his duties and an interim director was designated. the situation in the year 2016 was exceptional. it was the peak year of the refugee crisis. many procedures were carried out in extreme circumstances with understaffed teams and in a situation where systems and procedures were still in the process of being adapted to cope with the new and rapidly-evolving scenario. bearing in mind the overall picture during the voting on 27 september, with a slim majority the committee on budgetary control (cont) recommended granting discharge to easo, carefully taking into account the ambitious remedial action plan of the office.
madam president, mr tusk, mr timmermans, i can only agree with the colleagues who said that the council had achieved nothing. on the one hand, we say 'unity makes strength', and the leaders of the member states are divided even on this extremely important issue of migration. we need to make very rapid progress on these issues. a sentence on the historical topic that was just played out - the debate from left to right. national socialism and communism are two terrible totalitarian dictatorships that have led to millions of victims and we must condemn both dictatorships and pay tribute to all those who died. back to the brexit. brexit is a loss for both sides - the uk and the eu. i see that there's been a growing civil pressure in the uk lately for a second referendum, and i hope that this happens to prevent this madness that is brexit. whatever the outcome of the negotiations, citizens on both sides of the channel should not be allowed to pay the high price of the divorce between the european union and the united kingdom. with or without a deal, they need to be sure that they can continue to work, study and live as they have done. the negotiating parties must deliver on what they have already promised and guarantee and protect the rights of european citizens living in the uk, as well as british citizens in the european union, even if that is the only point on which they agree. dear mr. tusk, i have another matter i'd like to raise. how long must we wait for the council's decision on the accession of bulgaria and romania to the schengen area? in the first stage, international airports and maritime borders. europe is safer when it is united. bulgaria and romania will make schengen more secure and stable this is the assessment around which the commission, parliament and all the security experts involved are united. both countries have met all the technical criteria for seven years, and their adoption has been stopped for purely political reasons. i do not understand how long the council will delay the accession of bulgaria and romania with air and sea borders. i urge you to put this back on the council agenda.
mr president, this report is an important step to prevent the negative and harmful impact of plastics on the environment. invented in the mid-19th century, plastic has been mass produced since the early 1950s, with an exponential rise in production in the last 15 years. over eight billion tons in barely 65 years, resulting in more than six billion tons of waste. this is an alarming figure, and tackling the plastic problem is a must. this throwaway society is turning our oceans into one great garbage bin, with plastic responsible for 85% of our marine pollution. if we do not take action, by 2050 there will be more plastics than fish in our oceans. i fully support the proposals to introduce new rules on the use of plastics and a new strategy for plastic in the circular economy. i encourage the commission to support businesses and technological innovations which aim to substitute the plastic used in certain products. the protection of our environment is our responsibility, and the eu should lead the world towards a cleaner and greener future.
mr president, i too voted in favour of this report and i consider it extremely important. in short, to all the critics who think that there is no need to do anything and no need to regulate the use of plastics, especially single-use plastics, i say, study the reports on the state of the environment, on the state of pollution of the world's oceans and seas. we as responsible politicians are forced to try to do something about the amount of single-use plastics being produced, especially when certain types of plastics can be replaced by other materials that are either natural or much more recyclable. i therefore supported this report, which of course will not solve the problem of plastic waste, but it is a clear first step, it shows the direction we should take in the future. the european union is founded on values, one of which is environmental protection, and i believe that we have an obligation to embrace this for future generations.
mr. chairman, plastics are among the world's biggest polluters. the ways in which they're made, produced and used are not sustainable and efficient. in addition, products made partly of plastic are almost never recycled. i voted for the ambitious proposal to reduce the use of single-use plastics because i believe we need to set ambitious targets so that young europeans and future generations have a cleaner environment and cleaner water. environmental protection is a shared responsibility in society. i think that manufacturers should be encouraged to produce more easily degradable packaging material. it is not sustainable to increase the cost of budget collection at the expense of citizens or to rely on actions and activities only of volunteers. it is the responsibility of both the state and local authorities to inform their citizens that plastics carry many risks and hazards to human health once they get into the soil, the water, and hence into our food.
mr president, there is one central finding in the court’s report. in the fifth year of this period, we are twice as bad at properly appropriating funds in comparison to the previous programme period. i feel that the commission is not paying sufficient attention and taking responsibility, its responsibility, for this totally unacceptable situation. the commission takes the kind of attitude that it knows about this ‘retard’ and is taking it into consideration and doing what is necessary. it is not enough! there should be a sense of real urgency that growing inequalities are the central threat to the very future of the union. so there have to be extraordinary efforts, driven by the commission, to overcome this totally unacceptable situation.
mr president, this is not the first time that we have discussed in the plenary the need for mutual recognition of diplomas and qualifications within the european union. i would like to remind you that this is one of the main objectives of the bologna process, which was launched in 1998. seventeen years later, in the 2015 yerevan communiqué, ministers once again committed to work towards automatic recognition of qualifications. here we are at the end of 2018, and there are still no visible results. in the last few years, we have been talking more and more about the digital single market and how important it is to complete it. but how often do we hear about a common european education area? the truth is, it's just not a political priority. unfortunately, the lack of political will has left the students and the students suffering. they continue to pay for expensive matching procedures, which does not always guarantee recognition of successfully achieved results. this continued inaction has a direct impact on the professional development of young people. instead of helping them, we're getting in the way of their future.
in writing. – the life of ordinary eu citizens, in particular young people, has been complicated by the lack of automatic mutual recognition of diplomas within the european higher education area (ehea). i strongly believe that the introduction of an automatic mechanism for diplomas within the ehea will have a very positive impact on the life of eu citizens, the eu economy, education and every spectrum of social life. therefore, i support the efforts of the commission to encourage member states to implement already agreed recognition mechanisms with the ehea. this should happen as soon as possible because nowadays the lack of mutual recognition of qualifications and study periods abroad is hampering mobility between eu member states for the purposes of learning. i do believe that the eu should continue its efforts to encourage and support automatic mutual recognition of diplomas within the ehea because this will facilitate mobility on the internal market and will improve the quality of the eu education system. therefore, i warmly welcome and support the idea of automatic recognition of diplomas.
i'd like to ask you a few questions. first of all, will this energy package work, given that there are non-binding targets in general at the european union level? and secondly, will it work, since we don't have specific targets for each member state? that's what happened with the first package, and it worked with the famous 20-20-20 targets. the second question i would like to ask is whether we should not finally put the transmission grids first, because when we set ambitious targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency, they will be impossible to achieve if we do not further develop the energy blood vessel, namely the transmission grids. and the last question, perhaps to the commissioner, tell me how is it possible that in a city like shenzhen in china, which has 15,000 electric buses, there are more electric buses than in all of europe?
madam president, the multiannual financial framework (mff) translates the eu’s policy priorities in the budgetary means. we need a sufficient budget in order to achieve the objectives of the union. most important among them are sustainable economic growth; research and innovation; empowering young people; addressing the challenges of migration; strengthening the economic, social and territorial cohesion as well as security and defence; and also protecting the external borders and supporting the neighbouring countries. in this regard, the global level of the next mff should be 1.3% of the eu member states’ gni. in this way, the union will be able to meet emerging needs, challenges and new international commitments as well as to achieve the political objectives. mff should support, with priority, the common agricultural and cohesion policy and oppose any radical cuts that would prevent the union from closing the gap between the member states. we support also the european social fund plus and the integrated youth employment initiative. for the next mff, we need to increase accountability, simplification, transparency, performance-based budgeting and maintaining the necessary degree of flexibility. the new structure of mff, with seven headings, is expected to ensure that these requirements are met.
mr president, i would like to start by breaking apart one urban legend – that there are net payers and net beneficiaries in this mff. from my point of view, there are only net winners, and the cohesion policy is a very pure example of how everyone could benefit from eu funding. recently, we celebrated one century after the end of world war i, during which you had to fight with your neighbours because of patriotism. today, patriotism demands that you collaborate with your neighbour to understand each other and work together. therefore, having us here is this room is already the beginning, but the real success is if we achieve together. our ambition is eur 1.3 trillion for the next seven years, and parliament is ready to work on that to have the decision. is the european council ready for these negotiations? let me remind you that we have an obligation to our citizens to have the decisions in the next six months – obliged not by regulation but morally.
in writing. the multiannual financial framework is of paramount importance because it provides funding and support for the development of regions, the creation of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, economic recovery, and the security and protection of europe's external borders. i therefore welcome the european parliament's position on increasing the funds for cohesion policy, agriculture, road and rail infrastructure, as well as for migration and border protection. at the same time, i would like to warn against attempts to bind the european budget to a rule of law framework, especially if it is extended to include democracy and fundamental rights, if there are no specific criteria for analysing and assessing the bindingness of certain violations to the spending of european funds. it is crucial that the measures taken in this regard refer to the european founding treaties, do not constitute a sanction mechanism based on political bias and do not stop the provision of european funding to ordinary people who need the funds the most. i am of the opinion that the european commission's proposal to suspend european funds due to violations of the rule of law should have been better analysed, with a prior study of the possible effect on final beneficiaries and a stronger legal basis.
i supported the report because the european union is a mosaic of cultures, languages, religions and traditions, forming a diverse community of citizens united by our core values. as the report indicates, approximately 8% of union citizens belong to minorities and approximately 10% speak a regional or minority language. international agreements provide for the regulation of minority rights, but the way in which the protection of minority rights is carried out in practice can be significantly improved by taking account of the evidence of systemic and institutional manifestations of discrimination. measures are needed to ensure the effective enforcement of minority rights and this report is a step in that direction, notably by calling on the commission to develop a common framework of minimum european union standards for the protection of minorities, containing measurable targets, regular monitoring and sanctions.
in writing. it is of great significance when the leader of the largest, strongest and most populous country identifies solidarity as a core value of the european union. very strong words from angela merkel towards a stronger and more united union. it even proposed new procedures to exclude the right of veto; a security council as a new institution within the eu; to change the treaties and the legal basis. and what was most striking, in agreement with macron, was that it was time to really think about creating our own european armed forces and a european army. an extremely pro-european speech, with a very clear vision for a united europe. a speech that, of course, was applauded at length, but i was watching carefully to see if any of the greek politicians from "syria" would stand up. yes, even they applauded angela merkel. it's a very strong finale and it's very indicative of the evolution of some political forces in recent years.
mr president, when it comes to choosing between east and west, no country is currently more divided than moldova. the invalidation of the mayoral elections in chișinău of june 2018 and the controversial elections reform from 2017 are only two of the more striking symptoms of the erosion of the democratic principles that has taken place in the country lately. the use of selective justice and a tool to intimidate opposition members along with the judiciary intervention in the electoral and political process also serve to illustrate the undermining of the rule of law. media freedom is deteriorating, and there are attacks to discredit representatives of civil society, while there is still no transparency on the usd 1 billion bank fraud. the moldovan government has been very good at assuring us of its positive intention to improve the situation in the country. still, for a successful continuation of the dialogue between the eu and moldova – and most importantly to improve the lives of the moldovan citizens – it is time for the moldovan government to take actions instead of speaking. and in georgia i welcomed the competitive atmosphere and the absence of violence in the first round of the presidential elections and, for sure, the european parliament has condemned the occupation of abkhazia and south ossetia.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first and foremost, i would like to thank this house for giving the commission the opportunity to express our views on your reports. we will continue following the implementation of the association agreement very closely, as well as the political developments in georgia and, of course, in moldova. let me reiterate that we are fully committed to supporting georgia’s reform efforts on its path to prosperity. a key focus will, of course, be sustaining growth. georgia’s gdp is growing by a remarkable 5% per year and, of course, it’s about jobs. this will be done by actively providing support in the areas which require most attention and ensuring proper implementation through our continuous policy dialogue. may i say that in georgia in particular, we are concentrating on, i think, three specific regional areas where we are trying to invest more in order to see and make a difference and to understand what it means to get support from the european union. as for moldova, the european union remains committed to the implementation of the association agreement but it expects the same level of commitment from moldova. i have listened very carefully to some statements concerning the fact that we have for the moment suspended financial support. but may i say, sometimes i have the feeling that people pretend to be pro—european, pro—western, but in terms of how they act i can’t see the european values, the european commitment. so in a way we have to take decisions if all our recommendations and advice, almost all of which comes not only from the european union – the commission, this parliament – but also from the venice commission, have not been respected. almost always quite the opposite was done and, in that respect, we have to take consequences, otherwise it’s about our own credibility. but, once again, not to be misunderstood, we are also committed to continuing to provide substantial assistance to improve the lives of moldovan citizens and we are ready to re—engage also with financial means, provided that the situation is changing. first and foremost, our intention concerns ordinary citizens. they should not suffer from these developments, so be reassured that we will do everything to serve the interests of moldovan citizens. it’s not about backing a specific political party or a specific government. no, it’s about taking care of ordinary citizens and improving their living conditions, which is, i think, the most important issue. so, when it comes to the next elections we will have a very close eye on the run-up to these elections because again, these elections must be free and fair, and the will of the voters has to be respected. i count on the further support of honourable members to strengthen the relations with georgia and moldova, boosting cooperation as well as keeping up the momentum for reforms. once again, these are two countries with an association agreement, a dcfta, so there’s a clear commitment on both sides to further deepen the relationship, but this can only be based on the respect of mutual agreements, conditions, incentives, however you might call it.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, thank you again for this opportunity to discuss arms exports and the report prepared by ms lösing. arms exports are a national prerogative of course but through the years member states have agreed that national policies should converge and that transparency should always be guaranteed. parliamentary scrutiny is essential to transparency and your work should also encourage national parliaments of member states to play their role with regard to arms exports control. channels for dialogue on arms export issues with this parliament have developed considerably over the years, with the crucial engagement of ngos, the academic world and the defence industry. this is an important achievement and it shows that transparency and dialogue can take place without prejudice to the respective responsibilities of national stakeholders. at a time when we advocate further transparency worldwide, notably via the arms trade treaty, it’s important to show there is no contradiction between transparency and national security. the eu framework governing arms exports mainly revolves around the eu common position on arms exports adopted in 2008. this framework is based on the national responsibility of eu member states on arms exports licensing decisions together with well-developed information sharing between export control authorities of member states. the eu common position has allowed the creation of common criteria for export control. this has led to increased convergence, increased transparency through obligatory public reporting and it has facilitated the exchange of information between the member states’ export control agencies. as the report by ms lösing recalls, the common position demands that all member states publicly report on their arms exports. the risk assessment criteria laid down by the eu common position are comprehensive and far-reaching in terms of respect for human rights and international humanitarian law, the risk of diversion and the impact on internal and regional stability. their daily application by national licensing officers is supported by the so—called user’s guide, which was revised in 2015 in order to align it with the arms trade treaty. the eu common position aims to promote responsible arms export policies and the convergence of national arms export policies. in support of these objectives, the council and the european external action service have set up an information-sharing platform through the council working party on arms exports and an it platform enabling the exchange of information relevant for risk assessment, including details on licence denials. as the report also notes, at the beginning of 2018 this working party on arms exports began work to reassess the implementation of the eu common position and the fulfilment of its objectives in accordance with the mandate given in the council conclusions of july 2015 and this work is continuing to date. we welcome that the report by ms lösing pays tribute to the work of the working party on arms exports in connection with cooperation, coordination and convergence. let me now briefly widen the picture of the eu’s cooperation and assistance on export control capacity development in third countries. a number of countries in our close neighbourhood, mainly in the eastern neighbourhood, have aligned with the criteria of the eu common position. to assist them in the daily operational implementation of the common position, the european union has put in place a programme to fund technical cooperation. the latest phase covering 2018-2019 was approved by the council in january 2018. secondly, let me stress once again how central the arms trade treaty is to raising the standards that govern arms trade towards greater responsibility and transparency. one hundred and thirty states have signed the treaty and 96 countries are state parties, including all 28 eu member states. however, some of the largest arms exporters and importers, such as russia, china, india and pakistan have not signed or ratified it yet. our goal remains to make the treaty even more universal. last august the fourth conference of states parties of the arms trade treaty met in tokyo, hosted and chaired by japan. the conference discussed the effective implementation of the treaty, including transparency in reporting and how to encourage further universalisation. our work for the effective implementation and universalisation of the arms trade treaty includes both financial support and diplomacy. in 2014-2016 a dedicated eu assistance programme with a budget of around eur six million was active with 15 countries in latin america, the caribbean, africa and asia. a total of 113 countries participated in the activities organised in the programme’s framework, which focused on showcasing regional best practices, encouraging regional cooperation and strengthening regional arms control structures. a new eu outreach programme adopted last year extends our assistance to 18 roadmap countries and 14 ad hoc partners to strengthen their domestic capacities to implement the treaty. we will continue to bring together dozens of other countries to share experiences on a regional level. this programme receives over eur seven million in funding from the european union and it benefits from the technical expertise of export control officials from eu member states. in addition to these tangible actions on the ground all diplomatic opportunities are used to encourage more countries to join the treaty, including by offering eu assistance where needed and requested. the arms trade is becoming more and more globalised so it’s every day more important to work for the globalisation of the arms trade treaty. at the same time it’s our duty to lead by example when it comes to arms exports from the european union and your report is an important contribution to this goal.
on behalf of the ecr group. without any doubt this report is useful and important and should be considered with great care in this room. but let's be honest about this: we cannot talk about arms exports seriously while the european union has such double standards as regards saudi arabia. when it comes to the murder of a journalist, the response should be very sharp and very clear, and very consistent. but many leading countries in the european union don't want to impose an arms embargo on saudi arabia because they sell weapons to saudi arabia for a lot of money. and in saudi arabia, journalists are being killed. in saudi arabia, people are beheaded in the square. this is a theocratic dictatorship, and as long as we continue to play dumb, it's going to be hypocrisy and double standards. and that hypocrisy and double standard gives no one the right to think that they are protecting some basic rights and freedoms. the murder of journalists must be condemned clearly and precisely, and that is the place, in this room.
the imco committee's headquarters. this directive is an example of legislation which, because of its technical nature, can be quite difficult to communicate to citizens. but this is an example of legislation that will significantly improve the functioning of the single market, and therefore lead to much greater growth and will then be felt by consumers to their benefit. this is because the directive will lead to better enforcement of competition rules in the member states. eighty-five per cent of decisions in cases involving the disclosure of anticompetitive practices are taken by national authorities, leading to fragmentation of the internal market and distortion of competition. as rapporteur for the committee on the internal market, in my opinion i defended, on the one hand, the right of national authorities to have more freedom of action with their allocated budgets and to improve their technical resources in order to give them the necessary powers to successfully detect cartels of a cross-border nature. i think that poor competition and shy business have missed benefits not only for the economy, but most of all for consumers. that's why i welcome today's decision.
mr president, nowadays we are living in a world in which migration simultaneously is a global phenomenon. therefore the world desperately needs a global intergovernmental instrument to effectively manage global migration and for displacement influx. of the war’s refugee crisis since the second world war, i warmly welcome the un’s ambition and initiative to establish the global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration. i believe that this will be a not only effective but also balanced framework through which international society can work together in order to manage and control migration in all countries involved – through origin, transit and destination alike. unfortunately, some eu member states – including my country, bulgaria – with populists and extreme nationalists in power want to reject them, but i am glad that in general the eu shows a strong support for the process for gcm and is committed to making it a success. we need to find a constructive approach.
in writing. – two main elements of our democracy and electoral process that are under attack: the first – you can call it fake news, disinformation etc. we have lost the sense of what is true and false. the problem is ‘more information, but less informed’. we have already started working with the big online platforms to make the internet a better and more reliable place for information and facts. yet, we are competing for the attention of our citizens with russian trolls, terrorist organisations and populists. the only way to win is to offer our citizens a logical narrative, based on principles and facts, filled with brave but conceivable ideas for the future. the second element is our election infrastructure. it is obvious that we should re-conceptualise the use of technology in the process, so the voting rolls, the act of voting, tabulation and results are secure to external influence. we should also reform our election administration, with a focus on resilience to cyber-attacks. today, foreign interference aims not only to support one candidate in a race, but also to ruin the basic mechanism that our societies use to make decisions. with no credible elections our societies will end up divided, perplexed and in deep confrontation.
in writing. – if we are to reflect on the future of europe, we must take stock of what we have achieved. european citizens enjoy freedom of movement in the biggest single market in the world, education opportunities under the erasmus programme; and solidarity in times of crisis. nevertheless, the unity of our union is put into question. i believe we need to learn to live in this new environment, where the european idea will be under attack and it will need to compete with other less liberal and less globalist ideas for the future of the european continent. what is more important, we need to learn to defend the european idea, by providing real solutions to the public’s fears like migration, security and climate change while upholding the values our union is based on. in the physical world, strengthening the schengen area, the eurozone and the accession of the western balkans will ensure security and stability for our continent. in the digital world, in spite of setting the highest existing standard for data protection with gdpr, europe should also be a digital frontrunner with investments in new technologies and innovations, and ethical ai.
on behalf of the ecr group. first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs scholtes, on her report. he is extremely prepared and extremely well motivated and he is in-depth investigating and studying the situation that kosovo is in right now. we are all anxious, and probably each of you will join in this anxiety, to see the situation at the moment, the growing tension with one of kosovo's neighbours, as well as the continuing internal tension within the country itself, which is neither in the interest of the kosovo citizens nor in the interest of change, of reform in kosovo and its path to integration into the european union, which is the path of this country. i would like to ask you, mr commissioner, to pay particular attention to the rights and legitimate interests of the various minorities in kosovo, because there are serious problems and provocations. they're visible, and they can't be left like that. in particular, of course, i also address the rights and legitimate interests of the bulgarian community in kosovo.
on behalf of the ecr group. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur. the treaty of friendship and neighbourhood between bulgaria and the republic of macedonia has been mentioned many times, and we welcome it and have worked very hard to achieve it. what we are concerned about, and we are concerned about, is that the government of mr zaev is not respecting this treaty or is not respecting it very well. a number of measures should have been introduced long ago, such as the language of hatred should have ended, textbooks should have been published in bulgarian, anti-bulgarian statements should not have been made. none of that has happened yet. this is what worries the bulgarian society. mr. zaev is a procrastinator, promises everything to everyone, but he doesn't fulfill his obligations. and that's not going to lead to a good effect and a good end result. our call to mr zaev is to respect this treaty if he wishes to continue to receive the support of us as european representatives and of bulgarian society as a whole.
let me say it again: i support the euro-atlantic future of macedonia. i hope that the ratification process will be completed as soon as possible, both in the parliament in skopje and in athens. this would allow the country to be admitted to nato as early as the spring of 2019 and to start accession negotiations with the european union as soon as possible. macedonia has always been an integral part of europe, as well as part of the bulgarian heritage. all historical disputes must be resolved through good neighborliness, tolerance and historical justice. in this regard, i cannot hide my disappointment at the continued anti-bulgarian statements in some macedonian media. it's not just physical boundaries that need to be symbolic. our common future, which the governments of bulgaria and macedonia are working for, but also the spiritual borders that were built by totalitarian regimes, the hate speech, all of this must be overcome on the path of european integration. thank you very much and i wish success to our friends and brothers of vardar.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, this the 12th year that, as an independent state, montenegro has shown that all the fears related to its sustainability were unfounded. it is now the leading western balkan state for eu accession and is a full and reliable member of nato. i welcome the progress the country has made in the area of public administration, fundamental rights and regional cooperation. montenegro has further aligned itself to the eu common foreign and security policy and to eu legislation in the areas of company law, food safety and agriculture. however, i have to mention the low trust in the electoral framework and the prolonged parliamentary boycott still enacted by some opposition parties. all political actors should share the responsibility in sustaining a healthy democratic political dialogue. montenegro still has a lot to do in the area of freedom of expression and the fight against corruption and organised crime. i would like to use this opportunity to remind you of the critical importance that european integration and the eu membership perspective have in holding the western balkans together in a peaceful and prosperous way. it is only through euro-atlantic integration that the western balkan states can be reconciled with their very difficult past and build their stronger future together.
thank you, madam chairman. it's become a cliché to say that montenegro or montenegro is first in the negotiations, but tell me what it means to be first when the competition is between two countries. is it a great pride that montenegro is ahead of serbia and there are no other competitors? let me express my disappointment that the other two countries that should have been invited to the june meeting of the council of the european union, namely albania and macedonia, have not been invited. imagine that montenegro has been negotiating for six years now, and on its happiest horizon in 2025, it might be able to become a member of the european union. how does it feel to be a country and a society that has been negotiating for at least 13 years to join the european union? we need to send clearer signals and be more frank with those negotiating membership, because i find it difficult to see partners in the west from austria and italy who have a genuine desire to see the western balkan countries actually become members of our european family.
in writing. today, michel barnier reports on the progress of the uk's withdrawal. the brexit deal is still to be approved by the british parliament. we watched the british meps argue. apparently, the country's divisions have become even deeper. the analysis of british business shows negative trends for the british economy. there is no good script! the least bad thing is for the british parliament to approve the deal. december 11th is the vote, but if we're being honest, at this stage there's no majority to pass it. in that case, there are many risks for business and especially for citizens, including bulgarians, who are there. i'll take a moment to offer them some practical advice. if the deal is not passed by the british parliament, the most likely scenario is that the uk leaves without a deal. don't rely on ideas of a second referendum or early elections. in practice, this means that it will be extremely difficult, if not impossible, for some people who do not have the full documentation to prove their rights and claim settlement rights. so my advice is to start collecting your legal residency, employment, income, paid tuition, rent, and health insurance documents now. that way, you'll be prepared for the worst-case scenario.
i'm the reporter. mr president, mr commissioner, first of all i would like to thank commissioner navraccic and my colleagues from the european parliament who are taking part in this debate to express once again our support for bulgaria and romania's membership of schengen. the strange thing is that there is no representative of the council here - the institution to which this debate and report are actually addressed, despite the promise made in july to the libe committee by ministers from the austrian government that this would be on the council's agenda this semester. obviously, the council has nothing to answer for its position. the truth is that for seven years the european council has been breaking european rules by not taking a decision on the membership of bulgaria and romania in schengen. and there's all sorts of reasons that have been put forward since 2011. including here in this room, the prime minister of the netherlands, mr rutte, a few months ago, said that a deal is a deal and must be respected by all. except he screwed up the deal, the agreement. he tried to mix the criteria for schengen with the justice cooperation and verification mechanism, and that's unfair to bulgaria and romania. however, the aim of this report is not simply to call for the membership of both countries in schengen once again, since the criteria, all the criteria, are clearly fulfilled. this is the assessment of the experts of both the member states and the european commission. it is about the fact that in recent years, and especially this year, a new idea or compromise, as they say, has been creeping in and imposed for a 'new type' of partial schengen membership. it is proposed that bulgaria and romania be admitted only by air and sea, indefinitely suspending the countries' membership of schengen and free movement at land borders, which is contrary both to all the basic rules of the european union and to common sense. this idea is looking for support and quite opportunistically it finds it. but i want to highlight a few key reasons why it is a dangerous precedent that should not be allowed to stand. first, it will postpone indefinitely the release of the troops, the lifting of controls at the land borders. secondly, the phased entry guarantees further economic losses and lost benefits, both for bulgaria, for its citizens, for the companies that export, and for the european companies and european countries that import goods to bulgaria and will have to waste a lot of time, and will make the final product more expensive. third, it will cement the double standard in schengen. i want to stress, schengen legislation is not designed to work with two categories of countries - countries that are full members and those that are only one foot in. i would therefore like to call on parliament to support this report and to give a very clear and decisive vision and position of the european parliament. the time for general talk is over, seven years have passed since all the criteria were met. the european council must now be given a clear and unequivocal signal to fulfil its obligation.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission supports the full accession to schengen by bulgaria and romania. president juncker recalled this position in his state of the union speech in september 2017. he called for the schengen area of free movement to be opened immediately to bulgaria and romania and to allow croatia to become a full schengen member once all the criteria are met. this will be an important step towards a better and more harmonised protection of the schengen external borders. bulgaria and romania joining schengen in full will not only enlarge the area of free movement, but at the same time make the schengen tools more performant and increase security. as we know, the final decision lies with the council and unanimity is required. neither the commission nor parliament has a formal role in this process. the commission has suggested concrete steps for bulgaria and romania to participate already in two important elements of the schengen acquis. it proposed that both member states have passive access to the visa information system, as well as full access to the schengen information system. parliament and the council approved both proposals. the commission will reiterate to the council that the schengen evaluations of bulgaria and romania were finalised during 2010-2011. these evaluations concluded that bulgaria and romania had fulfilled the relevant criteria for full accession. it’s now for the council to decide and it’s high time for this to happen.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to congratulate the rapporteur, mr stanishev, on this report. we're political opponents at home, but his report is pro-european. all those in this room who think and declare themselves pro-european should support him. the decision to exclude bulgaria and romania from schengen is purely political. all the technical criteria are met, all the requirements are made, but the suspension of bulgaria and romania is due to the internal problems in countries like the netherlands, countries like germany, countries like austria, and it's wrong, unfair, two-faced and hypocritical. it is precisely such decisions, ladies and gentlemen, that are increasing scepticism in eastern europe towards the european union, because this political decision has its economic dimensions, because perhaps the most european economic activity in bulgaria and romania is transport, shipping. more than 150,000 families in bulgaria depend on transport for their livelihood. and today, from romania, from bucharest to ruse, 70 km, you travel 12-13 hours. and today from blagoevgrad to thessaloniki, which is 200 km, you travel much longer. it's hampering economic activity, it's destroying the efforts of these people and making them poor, and forcing them to emigrate. so the political solution behind which gentlemen like rüte, gentlemen like the people who run germany and austria, create emigration and empty our countries of young and enterprising people, and we cannot allow that to happen, gentlemen. this report must be accepted and approved and this hypocrisy must be stopped.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i regret to note that today is not the first time that the european parliament has taken a clear and firm position that the fulfilment of the criteria for membership of the schengen area must lead to the admission of bulgaria and romania to schengen. today, we recall that both countries fulfilled the admission criteria back in 2011. seven years later, the council's inaction has forced us to re-examine the matter. i have repeatedly stated and i will state again today that effective border security for the whole of the european union cannot be fully achieved without full access for bulgaria and romania to all information systems. giving only partial access to both countries because they are not members of schengen creates vulnerability in our border systems. the cost to the european economy of internal borders has been raised on many occasions. imports and exports to both sides are heavily affected by the waiting time at internal border crossing points. the impact on transport operations to and from some of the largest seaports in southern europe is negative. i am a committed european. the majority of bulgarian and romanian citizens support the values and ideas of the union. we are in favour of the strict application of the common european law. the fact that it has been violated for so many years raises serious questions about the european union's capacity for self-regulation and its sustainability. that is why i thank all of you in the european parliament for not wavering for a moment on the matter of compliance with the rules and for taking the right position. the double standard applied to bulgaria and romania is discriminatory towards the citizens of both countries, and the blatant injustice casts doubt on the rule of law, the strength of the european institutions and undermines trust. they retain a bitter feeling of second citizenship in the union. it is long past time for the council to prove that the rules are the same for everyone and to take the necessary action to admit bulgaria and romania to schengen at all land, sea and air borders.
mr president, mr stanislav, under the 2005 act of accession to the european union, the only condition for bulgaria and romania to join schengen is that they successfully fulfil the necessary criteria. the successful fulfilment of the criteria was confirmed by the council on 9 june 2011, when the council declared that bulgaria and romania fulfilled the conditions in all areas. seven years ago, bulgaria and romania met the criteria, but for seven years now, the entry of both countries into schengen has not happened. some member states object, citing arguments and criteria which are not in their pre-written texts. member states who oppose the entry of bulgaria and romania into the schengen area are in flagrant breach of the rules they themselves adopted and voted for. this is a drastic and extremely bad example of double standards. double standards on food, double standards on the schengen area. this attitude towards bulgaria and romania is extremely unfair and offensive to both countries. this is undemocratic and un-european. the idea of a so-called two-step approach to eliminate checks first at air and sea borders and then at land borders would be a legal paradox and a continuation of the policy of double standards. when we talk about the rule of law, it is good that it is not just beautiful words and phrases, but real actions, which means that once a member state has fulfilled the criteria for entry into schengen, checks at land, air and sea borders should be abolished immediately, because these are the rules and they must be respected.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank mr stanishev for this report, to congratulate him on his re-election as president of the party of european socialists, and to wish him every success. i would also like to thank mr quelu for his report and his commitment to the subject. i think it is very telling that the european council is not present at this debate today, at least they could have sent someone here out of courtesy. i think all the experts are aware that bulgaria and romania do not pose a risk to the schengen area. on the contrary, it is a fact that when bulgaria and romania become full members of the schengen area, we will have more security in that area. no link can be made between the csf and the schengen criteria. there can be no double standards, it makes european citizens feel insecure. bulgaria wants to be part of all integration processes in the european union, schengen, the euro area, the banking union and the defence union, and especially before the european elections the council must finally give a clear signal that there are no double standards. we can't go on like this. yes, i understand there are elections, i understand there is populism, but at the end of the day, a final decision has to be made.
member of the commission. – mr president, indeed, the commission’s position on bulgaria’s and romania’s accession to the schengen area is clear and unequivocal: romania and bulgaria met the criteria of schengen membership. so our position is that the council hold open the schengen area of free movement to bulgaria and romania immediately. however, the final decision lies with the council; we know that unanimity is required, and the commission doesn’t have a formal role in this process.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank all my colleagues who spoke out in favour of supporting the report. i would especially like to thank mr coelho, who was the shadow rapporteur, and the other shadow rapporteurs. he was dealing with this matter seven years ago, preparing the parliament’s report. what we are facing is a shame. the council is absent because they have nothing to say. what can they say? we are violating european legislation and the rules. that’s what they should say. in reality, the situation is the following: we are discussing today the destiny and life of 30 million european citizens. each time a bulgarian or romanian citizen comes to the schengen border, they feel personally that they are being treated like second—class citizens of the european union. that’s it. it’s very modern today to express concerns about the lack of trust in the european union. it comes from a very simple thing. words have been devalued by actions or inaction. when there is a huge gap between what we say and what the council should do, and what is being done or not done, this is a major source of disappointment for the citizens. this is why i think the best thing that the parliament can do tomorrow is to send a very powerful message, with a big majority, to the council: do your duty and fulfil your obligations. the countries have done their homework. you should accept bulgaria and romania at all schengen borders. otherwise, they will be irrelevant. if the leaders who achieved so many things for the european union in the past had acted as some of the leaders in the council are doing today – thinking about public opinion polls today and about what happens the next day, but not in the longer term – we would never have the european union as it is today. that’s the reality. (applause)
in writing. more than 10 years after bulgaria's accession to the european union and seven years after successfully passing the technical assessment for schengen accession, bulgaria is still not part of the free movement area. this is an unacceptable violation of european rules and norms, which do not imply the imposition of additional, especially politically motivated, criteria that have no basis in european legislation! the fact that our accession to schengen is linked to a mechanism which is not universally applicable to all member states but is only designed for two specific countries is proof of the application of double standards within the european union. even more worrying is that this is an attempt to create a two-speed europe not on the basis of a sovereign decision of a member state to join or not to join a european decision, but on the basis of an externally imposed policy. it is time for the leaders of certain member states to realise that the european union is one for all and that the rules apply to all of us equally. it is time to stop breaking the law when it is more convenient for them, and then to reprimand others for not following european norms! it's time for bulgaria and romania to join schengen!
mr. chairman, new technologies are developing much faster than innovation and reform in education, which creates a number of imbalances. it has long been understood that updating the material base in educational institutions will help to rapidly modernise educational processes. modern multimedia and the new tablets in the classroom cannot be seen as an end in themselves, the human factor must also be taken into account. in this sense, i think that the digitization of education should happen in three main directions. first, we must ensure that our teachers are properly trained to keep up with new technologies. secondly, we need to make sure that adolescents learn to use new technologies in creative ways beyond using smartphones for social networking and surfing the web, and last but not least, i think that before we go into mass digitalization of education, we need to be informed about whether, and if so, to what extent, modern devices can be harmful to children's development.
mr president, the european union is gradually emerging from a crisis which has affected the cultural and creative industries in a very sensitive way. yes, indeed, we have been through a very difficult crisis, and there are still many crises and challenges ahead of us. but it is unacceptable that we should deprive our citizens of access to culture every time, at the expense of new priorities. we should not forget that one of the main obstacles to access to culture is the lack of funds. according to the 2017 eurobarometer, 36% of europeans have not participated in any cultural activity in the past year. similarly, under the most popular european union cultural programme 'creative europe', only 16.2% of the projects that participated received funding. that means that the demand is many times greater than the supply. i supported the report by mrs grammatikakis because i believe that the union must have a coherent, sustainable and well-funded cultural policy. i believe that access to culture is something that we cannot afford to compromise on.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, petras auštrevičius, for his balanced approach in this report. while some world leaders push hate thought against rights, ignore horrific crimes against humanity and let inequality and suffering go on, the eu reaffirms its role as a leading global proponent of the promotion and protection of human rights. i’m glad that, during 2017, the eu continued firmly to oppose any unjustified restrictions on the rights of freedom of association and peaceful assembly, as in 2017 we were witnessing a continuing backlash against civil society. the eu strongly supported an enabling environment for non—governmental organisations and human rights defenders through bilateral dialogues, including human rights dialogues, and financial support. in this context, 2017 marked a milestone in the eu’s attempt to prevent and combat violence against women, and particularly domestic violence. the eu’s signature of the istanbul convention has a been a very strong political message.
in writing. – the eu—ukraine association agreement (aa) is one of the most dramatic eu deals with a third country. when the ukrainian government under president viktor yanukovych refused to sign the agreement in late 2013, it sparked the euromaidan protests, which resulted in russia’s annexation of crimea and civil war in donbass. the agreement is also one of the most eu—inspired instruments of ukrainian change. it makes room for deep reforms, integrates ukraine into the european single market and provides for implementation of eu product safety and quality inside ukraine. however, despite its positive aspects, the deal continues to raise questions. the eu should politically and financially support the government of ukraine in its combating of corruption and organised crime. the country needs to continue its reforms and we should encourage the country to implement as soon as possible ukraine’s human rights strategy in order to improve the situation of all minority groups. finally, i call on the eu and all member states to show support for, and commitment to, ukraine’s independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders, and to continue the internationally coordinated sanctioning of governments and agents undermining the country’s territorial integrity.
the european space programme is the answer and the solution to some of the problems of agriculture. in agriculture, there are increasingly acute trends of population ageing, depopulation and the resulting labour shortages. also, the technology in a sector with a small profit margin is a big expense. the bureaucracy and on-the-spot checks are also time-consuming, expertise-intensive and resource-intensive. all of this is leading to a wider adoption of technology in agriculture, and this requires precise and accurate information. one such channel is the use of satellite technology, data and imagery. the data collected can be used to monitor biodiversity, land use, the state of crops and soils, and the overall development of rural areas. in this context, i believe that an increase in the targeted funding for 'copernicus' and govsatcom will help to respond to the needs of european agriculture. i think the increase could have been even more ambitious, as we had proposed in the committee on agriculture, at 18 billion euros, but i support the proposal nonetheless.
i am pleased to see that in the next multiannual financial framework, investments in digital skills are a horizontal priority. we must not forget that within the european union, 70 million europeans lack basic digital skills. in a world of rapidly evolving technology, basic skills are proving to be inadequate. in this sense, the new 'digital europe' programme sets the right direction by defining the development of advanced digital skills as one of its main objectives. i think the budget for the program is ambitious enough. however, i believe that more balance is needed in the allocation of funds to the various funds. i share the view that the targeted resource for advanced digital skills is woefully inadequate. the financial support under this heading must represent at least 12% of the total budget. i believe that we must not make the mistake of investing huge amounts of money in digitisation while at the same time people do not have the necessary skills to use advanced technologies. as regards the digital innovation hubs, which will play a key role in the implementation of the programme, i believe that, in addition to respecting the geographical principle in their allocation, preference should be given to the poorer and less populated areas of the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the republic of croatia has every reason and every right to defend its borders. let us not forget that the republic of croatia is an external border for the european union and protects the citizens of the european union. so the republic of croatia cannot be blamed for guarding its borders. let's not promote crime. illegal, illegal crossing of a border is a crime, not a violation. it cannot be justified and it cannot be encouraged. every border must be crossed at the legitimate state checkpoints. in this regard, any talk that promotes illegal migration works against the security of european citizens. every conversation that justifies breaking the law is working against the security of european citizens. illegal immigration, my fellow citizens, is not a right, it is not a human right. and the protection of the rights, the freedoms, the health of all european citizens is the duty of every single country. (the president accepted to answer a question by raising a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answering a question asked by raising a blue card. thank you for your question, mr. chairman. many colleagues in this room even encourage and justify illegal immigration. there are fellow european representatives in this room who openly advocate, encourage and encourage illegal migration. and that's not good. and this is directed against the security of european citizens. and this is aimed at the social systems of european citizens. the false thesis that illegal immigration is right is a false thesis.
