mr president, i think we all know that this issue is of enormous importance because it affects the whole planet and i think it obliges each of us, and every citizen of this planet, to know, to believe that the homeland of each of us is not the geographical boundaries of our homeland. i won't even say that our home is the planet. i'm going to go one step further to tell you and the world that every man's home today is the future. to imagine the future as a geographical space and define it as our home. only then will we work towards the survival of humanity on this rock. recently, mr. trump, the leader of one of the largest countries in the world, saw snow in america and mocked those who believe there is an environmental issue and climate change. man cannot understand the difference between climate change and whether it rained or snowed somewhere. we must resist him. i'll close with energy poverty: i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union, mr president, as we all know, has very serious problems. first of all, the question of unemployment, especially among young people, of housing for all the people of the european union and of heating for all its citizens. i would like to make a few comments on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment. how do we, mr president, set up a mechanism which will force the state companies - i call them that because the term 'large companies' does not convey what i mean - to submit to european law with a fair result, paying the appropriate taxes where they offer their services, and not being able to circumvent or exploit loopholes in our laws, with the result that they often avoid paying any taxes at all. taxes are a social asset. i'm referring to companies with the name and address: amazon, google, apple, facebook, all of which are worth billions. i would also like to know, mr president, whether this money will be paid to civil society and, in particular, how. what specific public investments will be made to strengthen local economies so that the european union can, if it so wishes, be a positive presence in the daily lives of its citizens? i am asking for your help, mr president, in this: to establish bilingual, trilingual schools in cyprus of high standards for those who wish to attend, so that the belief that together greek cypriots and turkish cypriots can do better is maintained. this should be a great european ambition, to establish, beyond defence, a good education that holds the world together.
mr president, we note with disappointment that the programme of the bulgarian presidency is a continuation of the union's dead-end neoliberal austerity policies, which have already led its peoples into poverty and its young people into unemployment and migration. in its digital agenda policies, it continues the philosophy of competition, at all social and labour costs, while in security and asylum matters it follows faithfully the course of further militarisation of the union. however, we welcome the commitment of the bulgarian presidency to social cohesion and recognise the difficult task it has undertaken in negotiating the multiannual financial framework. as a group of the united left, we insist on our positions on long-term public investment in industrial sectors, which will create new, secure and permanent jobs with full labour rights. we are against further militarization, we are for humanitarian, solidarity-based management of refugee and migration flows, by creating a fair and binding system of refugee redistribution.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial instruments are used effectively and that the community's financial instruments are used effectively. it contains, in our view, positive elements such as, firstly, the recognition that the austerity measures promoted by the union's policies are dramatically increasing youth unemployment, the criticism of member states which have not promoted youth employment and, of course, importantly, the introduction of the ilo definition of decent employment. as a group of the united left, we have serious reservations about the youth employment initiative, since there are no concrete steps to solve the structural problems of unemployment. the promotion of youth migration and apprenticeships as a means of entering the workforce must be stopped immediately. the union needs public investment to create decent jobs, with all the rights of young people and those entering the labour market guaranteed. it is precisely public investment in the real economy that is needed.
that debate was very interesting. i consider the common cultural heritage to be an extremely important phenomenon too, and i am glad that this debate is taking place here. i would like to emphasize one more thing. the projects of the european common cultural area strengthen european cohesion, and i think that is particularly important in our times. sometimes today, some young people don't fully understand why european countries work together, why there is european integration, what benefits european integration brings. i believe that it is through culture that we can strengthen our european identity and thus combat anti-european sentiments, separatism and nationalism. the fight is nonviolent and in my opinion, it's right. i am very pleased that transnational projects have been mentioned here, which are precisely intended to show the common european cultural roots. i ask, commissioner, that these projects not be burdened with too much bureaucracy so that the enthusiasts, the authors of these projects, are not completely absorbed in filling out various leaflets and documents, but that these people can really devote themselves to their creativity, as mrs šojdrová has already mentioned. it will also be good to evaluate these projects in the aftermath to see what impact they had and how they were visited by eu citizens.
the european union is a democratic society, a democratic society, a democratic society, and it is not just a political union, but a political union. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. however, our joy is turning into pain and sorrow at the same time, because on the territory of the european union, in the occupied northern territory of the republic of cyprus, the turkish army and erdogan continue to give orders. i'll give you some numbers that concern us all as europeans: 500 greek orthodox churches and chapels and 17 monasteries, which have survived the passing of centuries and conquerors, are destroyed. 15,000 church icons were stolen and never found. 60,000 ancient artifacts have been illegally removed from cyprus. now you know why our joy is both pain and sorrow.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr prime minister, welcome to parliament. mr juncker, ladies and gentlemen, no one can hide the institutional, social and political crisis in the union any longer. if the impoverishment of peoples, high unemployment - especially among young people, lack of solidarity, large democratic deficits, xenophobia and racism could be covered up, we would not even be having this debate today. we need an immediate change of direction from the policies of austerity and unfettered free markets, from the policies of militarisation and lack of social solidarity. the austerity policies imposed on the people by the coordination of the economic policies of the member states and the sacrifice of discipline in economic indicators are pushing the member states to the continuous 'elimination' of the welfare state. the proposals that are being put forward, such as for example a finance minister, will unfortunately lead to a deepening of the undemocratic and anti-people economic governance for the euro area and will perpetuate the widening of social inequalities in the european union. the commission's declarations on the social pillar of the european union and on social justice have so far proved to be a smokescreen. the recent outcome of the discussions on the european social pillar between the heads of state or government of the member states of the union in gothenburg is a social 'placebo', as the european press has rightly described it. there is no legal commitment to the member states and no mention of the human right to decent work. on the contrary, measures are being taken to further liberalize and deregulate industrial relations. in this neoliberal and antisocial context, xenophobic racist movements exploit the humanitarian crisis caused by neoliberal austerity policies through racist rhetoric. they are advocating the impoverishment of the working class, the shrinking of the welfare state, the continued reduction of wages, pensions and labour rights and are winning new elections by consolidating their power. the flows of refugees are met with violence and inhumanity. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. at the same time, wars in our region are intensifying, with the most recent example being turkey's attack on the afrin region of syria. the gue/ngl's positions, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this all-out attack on the peoples and workers, remain principled. we demand the immediate lifting of the neoliberal austerity policies. the people need public investment to create new decent jobs with full workers' rights, through re-industrialisation and support for the real economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the social dimension. we also call for a common, humane and permanent asylum system which guarantees human rights and human dignity. a system that ensures legal and safe pathways for refugees, humanitarian visas and family reunification, and that distributes the burdens of refugee flows fairly. the new defence policy announced last summer to strengthen the defence industry only serves to strengthen nato's operational capacity and to participate in new interventions and military conflicts. the example of the turkish invasion of afrin, syria against the kurds, where the turks fight and attack with german tanks and the kurds defend with german anti-tank guns, is typical. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the neoliberal recipes of austerity, memoranda and the rule of the market and militarisation have been tried and failed. it's the policies that caused the humanitarian crisis. the future of europe lies in social development, social justice and solidarity. it is in further citizen participation, by strengthening the powers of the european parliament, and by strengthening and broadening political freedoms. it is found in peace and peaceful coexistence, both within and outside the union.
mr president, mr prime minister, welcome to a public space with which you are quite familiar. i wish you every success in your work. i will start by saying that 2018 has been declared the year of cultural heritage. the cultural heritage is about the past, but it is what defines the values for our common european future. i would agree with the previous speaker that our common cultural future as europeans must be based on honesty and truth and not on the lies of skopje. now, in relation to our common european future, i would like to hear your views on two issues. firstly, in the occupied northern part of cyprus, which is part of the european union, there is an unprecedented destruction of ancient monuments and churches. secondly, i would like to know what your views are on our common european future based on defence cooperation. i wish you again every success in your work.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we agree in principle with the high representative that these countries already belong to europe and that we should support the will of their peoples to join the union. we have a duty as the european union to stand by these states and their citizens and to be useful in their efforts to build democracies that respect the rule of law and human rights. we must help these countries to overcome the corruption that is plaguing them and to become members of the european union, so that they can put hatred and nationalism behind them. in this endeavour we must avoid imposing economic policies which have proved to be unfavourable to the people. the citizens of these countries expect us to support them, not to impose policies from afar that only provoke discontent.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. the advantages of enlargement are many. the european union is now one of the most important security actors, while excluding the interference of third countries that seek to play a hegemonic role by creating problems. we must give a new impetus to the process of enlargement. however, there is a need to resolve the problems in the areas of the rule of law, fundamental rights and the fight against corruption. it is clear to all the applicant countries that they must remain committed to the european path and fulfil all their obligations. the peoples of europe are ready to welcome the western balkans into their fold, but without compromising on principles, values and obligations. as the shadow rapporteur on bosnia-herzegovina, i want to stress that the country's european perspective will change the facts so far. it will positively affect the way politicians conduct politics in the country and give hope for a better future to all its citizens. the reforms in bosnia and herzegovina should be promoted in a balanced manner and through transparency and dialogue with the social partners, so as to bring about positive changes in the daily lives of all the inhabitants of the country. the difficulties remain, as the commission's questionnaire has not yet been answered, and much work is needed to implement the agreed.
mr president, i very much welcome the initiative to devote more attention to the western balkans and to help our partners to move closer to the european union. as a member of parliament for the czech republic, i want to emphasise one aspect that has also been raised here, namely the geopolitical aspect. the moment we are not active in the balkans, the moment we leave the western balkans alone, then russia will be greatly strengthened in this area. i say that as a czech mp. we had a presidential election in the czech republic a few days ago. unfortunately, the candidate from the east, the current president zeman, won, and in our country we can clearly see that in short, russia's interests in the former regions of the rsfsr, in the former post-communist bloc, remain and, on the contrary, are growing. so, from my own experience in the czech republic, i say let's make a more active policy in the balkans, because we need europe and its values to win here.
mr president, the six western balkan states have a future in our common european family, not so much because of geography, but because they apply the rule of law and international law in practice. however, not all the countries of the western balkans are in the same place. for example, if we compare the position of today's turkey, which is already in the accession process, with that of some of these member states, we will find that, admittedly, some of the countries in the western balkans are in a better position. but, mr president, 2018 is also the year of cultural heritage, which defines our values and our values define our future. to be honest and to rely on the truth: the so-called state in skopje has nothing to do with greek macedonia and alexander the great. let us finally be honest so that we can have a common european future.
in writing. the debate on the western balkans shows that the eu intends to proceed with a new enlargement by 2025 if the conditions are met and the cross-border problems are resolved, in which, as has been said, the eu will not be involved. under these circumstances, if skopje wants to join the eu it will have to abandon its redemptive policy against greece, which means that no compound name with the term macedonia can be accepted. the commissioner responsible for enlargement, johannes hahn, has taken an unacceptable attitude, refraining from recalling previous public references to macedonia as skopje. as for albania, if this country continues to cultivate greater albania idealism by eyeing kosovo, tetovo and areas of western greece, and brutally violating the human, religious, educational, cultural and property rights of the greeks of northern epirus, the only certainty is that it will never join the eu. the european union is not prepared to accept the new situation in the balkans, which is a very serious problem.
mr president, i would agree with the high representative that zimbabwe has entered a political transition period. i just hope that mugabe's successors won't be as corrupt as his regime was. i don't think the only problem was mugabe, whose life cycle was coming to an end. the transitional period will certainly not end with the elections, however smoothly they may be conducted. there is a chronic hatred among the citizens because of the practice of moving tribes from one place to another to commit atrocities. so white people today are having a very hard time and they have nothing to do with the past. the economic problems are enormous and cannot be solved by the president alone or by the hegemonic policy of the european union. life is particularly hard in the countryside, although zimbabwe could solve the food problem of all africa on its own, since it is a very fertile country. let us not forget, too, that the positive rate is over 50%. when i first went there, it was 75%. in addition, the infrastructure in hospitals and schools is non-existent, especially in the countryside.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, zimbabwe has not been a democratic country for many, many years and things are very difficult in the transition period. and it could not be a democratic country when seven million people, more than half its population, are still on the verge of starvation, not just poverty. reports, even if they are from the past, of brutal torture with beatings, electric shocks and poisoning have dramatically worsened the picture. but we are now in a transition period. there is perhaps a great opportunity for the new leadership of the country to move decisively in the right direction. to combat corruption and mismanagement by all means. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. but it's not enough. all, or much, will depend on the will of the people of the country and their leadership.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am one of the many people in this chamber and beyond who have believed and worked for years that the accession process of turkey would lead to the democratization of that country. i won't say i've lost all hope, because the worst death is the death of hope. but this impression, which we have had for many, many years, has been greatly diminished. i need not repeat the dramatic decline of the rule of law in this country. the european union is also calling for the release of the leaders of the people's republic party, mayors, journalists, members of the judiciary and members of the turkish national assembly. unfortunately, however, recently president erdogan has tried to extend his authoritarianism to cyprus, calling in a speech in prussia on his brothers in cyprus to respond to the newspaper afrika, which wrote its opinion that the invasion of afrin is similar to the invasion of cyprus in 1974. and his brothers in cyprus responded with vandalism against the paper. but i want to tell you that a few days later, thousands of turkish cypriots took to the streets in support of freedom of the press and much more in support of their right to free expression and to have an independent will for the future of their community and of cyprus. i would like to conclude by inviting you all to support the view that turkey is now very close to the threshold of total removal from any notion of the rule of law and this can be done with a clear mandate from the european parliament to ourselves and to turkey that if the country is not democratized we will have to rethink the process before us.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. two years ago, i denounced from this very room a crime against humanity committed by the turkish occupation army in cyprus, the regular turkish army. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of persons, in accordance with the procedure laid down in article j.3 of the treaty on european union. we had a resolution then, if you remember, commissioner. finally, a conscientious citizen confessed, while turkey has denied it all these years, that the bones were buried in a dog park in the village of dikos in occupied cyprus, and on the dog park a park was created with european union funds, which now adorns the area. that is where the european union's money goes. i wonder how it is possible that the value of respect for the dead, which was recognized by all the ancient civilizations, the etruscans, the egyptians, the greeks, the romans, is not recognized by anyone in the modern world and allows turkey to continue this heinous crime.
madam president, in kobani, the kurdish fighters - men and women - decided to stop the barbarism of the islamic state and they succeeded. today turkey is invading syria, in the afrin area, as it invaded cyprus in 1974; with the same propaganda. but the crimes remain the same. the people of afrin are sending a message to us here in brussels, but also to all the capitals of the great powers. i say to you: do not sacrifice us to another genocide for the sake of your relations with turkey. i hope that their cry can be heard here in strasbourg. so let's finally get the word out and get it done. the commissioner has two points. we are not going to impose sanctions on turkey like we impose on other countries that are doing similar things. secondly, the kurds have a message: no-fly zone. if we secure it for them, rest assured they will stop the turkish army in afrin, as they did in kobani.
mr president, turkey is daily seeking to assert itself. turkey is proving that it was, is and remains a country that applies the strategy of 'invading and occupying foreign territories'. this is turkey invading afrin, syria, today. this is turkey, which invaded cyprus 43 years ago and remains a member state of the european union, violating every principle of international and european law. this is turkey which, today, as we speak, is trying and violating the eez of the republic of cyprus in an attempt to prevent the finding of natural resources to be used for the european union. turkey is the one that has been obstructing the search for the missing until today. so did her atrocities with the missing asians and the bones found in ornith, where she moved them to keep them from being found by their relatives. this is turkey, which will continue to create and cause problems. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it cannot continue to challenge, in particular, the principles and values of the european union. the european union must take action and impose sanctions on turkey, otherwise it will continue with this provocative, expansionist and unacceptable behaviour and policy.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, the provocative decision of the us government to announce on 16 january another cut in unrwa funding is another blow to the middle east peace process. the trump administration has already led the peace process to a dead end by recognizing jerusalem as israel's capital and declaring its intention to move the country's embassy there. the gue condemns the us action to cut aid to unrwa. we acknowledge the great contribution of the organisation and express our deep appreciation for the work and its people. without the help of unrwa, the humanitarian crisis in the gaza strip cannot be addressed. 70% of gaza's residents depend on the support of unrwa, which is responsible for the operation of 700 schools, 137 clinics and provides food and financial support to 1.7 million palestinians living in lebanon, jordan, syria and the occupied palestinian territories. we call on the european union and its member states to mobilise additional funding for unrwa and to take the initiative to support unrwa and find solutions to its financial situation. we in the gue remain firm in our position to end the occupation, to return the refugees to their homes and to find a peaceful solution to the palestinian question on the basis of two states, on the 1967 borders and with east jerusalem as the capital of the palestinian state.
mr president, i am obliged by this step, the strong step of the european parliament, which expresses the will and the will of all the peoples of europe, by the european parliament, which is the guardian and defender of human rights, institutions and values, to denounce a country which wants to become a member of the european union, a country which constantly violates every principle, every rule of human rights law, positions and principles of the european union, which violates human rights in its own country, which invades afrin, which has been a member state of the european union for 43 years and which these days is illegally, militarily and terribly invading the cyprus democratic republic, by providing the energy supplies for the intercontinental trade of 12 000 tonnes of natural gas and hydrocarbons in the cyprus archipelago, which is in our own economic interest, by prohibiting the export of gas and hydrocarbons to the cyprus archipelago, which is in our own economic interest. using a naval fleet and, in a piratical manner, six turkish warships, they blocked and prevented the exercise of the legitimate rights of eni and the exercise of the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus. i would like to begin by expressing the cypriot people's unreserved gratitude for the european parliament's prompt intervention and your condemnation of turkey, but here in the european parliament we must say to turkey 'stop it and do not interfere' because it cannot in this way harm the interests not only of a member state of the european union but the interests of the european union itself. energy reserves are the european union's reserves and it must defend them. the companies operating in cyprus are total and eni, european interests, and the european union must defend them. turkey does not understand any other language than the language of sanctions, and we must all say to turkey that with such piratical actions it cannot ask for the upgrading of the customs union, it cannot ask for visa liberalization and it cannot have a future within the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the results of the informal council, mr president, unfortunately confirm that the union is continuing the same neoliberal policies, undermining declared principles and the interests of the peoples. in the context of the multiannual financial framework, instead of discussing solidarity measures to deal with the refugee crisis, it was proposed to increase spending on the creation of a fortress europe by strengthening borders and patrols. the union's leaders also agreed to increase investment in the defence industry rather than proposing measures to support the real economy, to promote funds and investment for social and regional cohesion, to combat poverty, to create employment and new quality jobs. the policies that are being promoted will not benefit the peoples but will lead to new conflicts, to new waves of refugees. the current humanitarian crisis in syria is, i think, typical. as regards the european union's relations with turkey, the statement-call after president tusk's informal council to end the violations in the eastern mediterranean and the aegean is positive but not enough. turkey has prevented a european company, eni, from drilling for oil in the cyprus exclusive economic zone and continues to violate international law and the law of the sea with the illegal navtex. it continues its flagrant violations of the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus. we therefore expect the european union to show solidarity in practice and to take more drastic measures, that is to say, to put pressure on turkey to put an end to its illegal actions immediately, to respect the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus and to support the resumption of the talks from the point at which they were suspended during the last talks in crans-montana, so that we can finally arrive at a solution to the cyprus problem. i would like to remind you that the two leaders of the two communities have been meeting on the issue of future gas management since 2010, and that the un secretary-general, antónio guterres, has referred to this in his latest report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the excessive use of nuclear energy, which is a major source of pollution.
mr president, i too would like to concentrate on the issues of european representation in the one minute i have. but when erdoğan intervenes in the southern sea of cyprus, which is also a sea of the european union, we have no choice but to discuss this issue. how many crimes does this regime have to commit before we finally act? it continues its illegal occupation of the northern part of cyprus. the rule of law in turkey has been perfected. it imprisons any opposing view. it is exterminating the kurds and every other people within turkey. it has for so many years been allied with the jihadists whom, as we all know, it is funding and using today in the attack on afrin. the last event, of course, is the raid on the exclusive economic zone of cyprus and the aegean. i think that if we stick to condemnation and words, we will have failed and will soon regret it.
mr president, i think that the european council has rightly decided to condemn turkey in the strongest terms for its unacceptable actions in the cyprus exclusive economic zone. i believe that these actions are directed against the european union. when it violates the exclusive economic zone of cyprus, it violates the external borders and the maritime borders of the european union. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the energy sector is not affected by the crisis. when turkey impedes european companies such as eni and total, it hurts european union companies, it hurts the interests of the eu itself. turkey today, with all its provocative actions, is a challenge and an insult to the european union itself. since turkey understands only the language of sanctions and measures, i think we must rethink any euro-turkish relations, the upgrading of a customs union which is unthinkable and unacceptable, the liberalization of visas for turkish citizens, but also something more important and more important, on which the european parliament has a say, financing from the european funds. this turkey needs measures and condemnation.
mr president, we are discussing the priorities of human rights and i am sure that many people are watching us from many countries outside the european union. so that we don't have to be hypocrites and speculate, i'll tell you this simple thing: on saturday night, the un security council unanimously decided and called for an end to all military operations in syria for at least 30 days, including afrin. what was the response of the parties involved? they keep bombing. the worst of all is, of course, the attitude of turkey, which we can influence because, at the moment we are talking, it is officially in a state of accession. and what did turkey say? she says she'll continue her operations in defiance of the security council's decision. of course i could talk for hours about the violations on the part of turkey but one sentence is enough: the european union has been occupying part of cyprus since 1974.
madam president, at a time when turkey is invading syria and slaughtering civilians and young children, at a time when it is continuing its threats against the greek islands, at a time when it is continuing to occupy illegally 40% of the republic of cyprus, at a time when it is invading the exclusive economic zone of a member state of the european union to prevent the exploitation of hydrocarbon deposits that would benefit the whole of europe, some people should stop thinking about any scenarios for upgrading eu-turkey relations. several concessions have been made in the attempt to tame the beast. it is a time of crisis for the european union itself, which must show that it is not attracted by other kinds of interests. otherwise, hypocrisy and self-interest will be rewarded once again.
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on her report. i will concentrate on two points only. the report covers the problem of non-performing loans, which is mainly a problem of banks but, as the report points out, it is also a matter of policies in the member states and at european level, so that we avoid a further over-exaggeration of this problem. i now turn to the next issue which we have been discussing for some time, the banking union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we applied both. the timing of the pillars was intended to answer those legitimate concerns of the member states that we should not have excessive risk transfer. now technical reasons are being put forward for not applying the bank guarantee. for the commission: mr dombrovskis, what are the real reasons - and not the technical ones - for not implementing the third pillar?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr juncker, representatives of the council, at the forthcoming meeting the union's leaders will be taking decisions on the major problems plaguing europe: the economic crisis, refugees, brexit, the energy union and external relations. however, as long as the council continues the same anti-people policies, deepening and institutionalizing the neoliberal model, the crisis will deepen. in order to provide solutions that really serve the needs of the people, measures that boost the real economy, policies that strengthen social and regional cohesion and tackle ever-widening inequalities must be promoted. the commission's proposals for the energy union, instead of solving the problems of energy supply, create new dead ends by abolishing the sovereign rights of the member states to formulate their energy policy. the new directive on the internal market in natural gas is one example, which seeks to manipulate the states by transferring more powers to the commission, and as a result will create additional problems in the creation of new infrastructure for importing and exporting natural gas. secondly, as regards euro-turkish relations, unfortunately turkey, with its illegal activities in the eastern mediterranean and the aegean, continues to violate international law, the law of the sea, and the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus and greece. at the same time it is invading afrin, bloodletting the syrian kurds, while continuing to trample on the civil liberties and human rights of its own citizens. the union must intervene to put an end to turkey's illegal actions. we expect practical solidarity and more drastic measures. we call for pressure to be brought to bear on turkey to respect human rights, to end the invasion of syria, to respect the sovereign rights of the republic of cyprus and to support the resumption of a meaningful dialogue to resolve the cyprus problem. unfortunately, however, the union continues to pander to turkey, with the launch of the approval of new financial aid of eur 3 billion for refugees, as well as discussions on strengthening the customs union and visa liberalization for turkish citizens.
madam president, despite the strong decision of the european council against turkey for its unacceptable, provocative and illegal violations both in cyprus and in the aegean, turkey is once again doing what it always does: it is disregarding, insulting and challenging the decisions of the european union. the cyprus problem, the problem of the invasion of the cypriot eez, the violations in the aegean, the insult to the european union member states by a country which behaves in a piratical and terrorist manner, such as turkey, i believe is not a cyprus and greece problem, but a european problem, because a fundamental principle of the european union is the solidarity of the european union member states, and i believe it is very important for the european union to respond to this provocative attitude and behaviour of turkey. the european union is being tested on this issue and we expect the european council meeting on 22 and 23 march to finally send a strong message that it will no longer tolerate turkish disrespect and insult and that it will take measures so that if it continues to violate the cypriot eez and does not stop it immediately, then turkey cannot expect anything from the european union. at the same time, i would like to appeal to and demand from the dear vice-president of the european commission, mr timmermans, that the european commission finally harmonize with the european council and the european parliament and stop taking decisions to upgrade relations between turkey and the european union. we must send the message that such behaviour can no longer be tolerated, because unfortunately turkey is becoming more and more fragile, and in closing i would like to call on you to take action, because tomorrow it will be too late with this turkey, erdogan's turkey.
in writing. the rule of law in turkey is being grossly violated. we have recently voted overwhelmingly in the european parliament that there cannot even be a fair trial in turkey for political dissidents of the erdoğan regime. the turkish state, which is oppressing the people within turkey, which is imprisoning dissidents, which is flouting the unanimous decision of the un security council to cease military operations and is continuing its invasion of afrin, which is cooperating with the most notorious terrorists, while calling any kurd a terrorist, which is interfering with the energy plans of cyprus with its fleet and harming the eu's energy interests, which is threatening greece and illegally continuing its occupation of the northern part of cyprus, is the turkish state that is receiving unprecedented favourable treatment. the question is simple: in the name of what european values or what interests, which are more important than the above, is this distorted favourable treatment of turkey being imposed? so distorted that we will allocate another three billion euros of european citizens to manage the syrian refugees, while at the same time causing a new humanitarian tragedy by inflating the outflow of refugees from syria and strengthening the islamic state, which for years it has financed.
madam president, i am firmly convinced that if we are to succeed with the new multiannual financial framework, we must aim at a more social, more efficient, more secure, more powerful europe. in order to achieve this, i must say that we must put in place concrete policies that respond to the present and the future of europe, and these policies must be: first, the strengthening of all programmes and policies for our young people, because only in this way can europe have a future and a perspective; second, putting into practice what we all constantly demand and ask for, real equality between men and women; thirdly, to support social cohesion. fourthly, to implement policies that support small and isolated countries such as malta and cyprus, which are disadvantaged in certain areas. fifthly, to implement an integrated defence and security policy which will genuinely safeguard the dignity of the european union itself by protecting its borders and securing its member countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
mr president, i don't think i'm going to say something that there's anyone in here who disagrees with. i am ashamed that we are talking about syria again and i repeat i think i speak for everyone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the european union is not a political force, but a political force, and it is not a political force, but a political force. and i am not blaming mrs mogherini, i am talking about the european union as a whole. we have to admit we're not doing it. the european union must not be allowed to be the arbiter of the world's economic and social problems. there is a lot of information about what is going on in ghouta and very correctly we learn what is happening there, with so many thousands of dead. a veil of mystery has been cast over what is happening in afrin, imposed by the president of turkey. we don't know anything. unusually we can hear something. and all of us who defended the kurdish forces when they were fighting isis today are silent. shame on you!
mr president, madam high representative, what is happening in syria is a real genocide. what is happening in ghouta is tragic, but what is happening in afrin is even more tragic. the kurds are being massacred, they are alone, without support, and, having fought bravely against the islamic state, we have left them to suffer the onslaught and atrocities of erdogan and the turkish army, who are attacking with european tanks and european guns. the turkish army is not going to stop in afrin and whatever territories it takes over it will hold forever. it is essential that there is a ceasefire at this time throughout syria and the withdrawal of all foreign forces in support of the civilian population. at the same time, madam representative, there is a risk of a clash between russian and american forces in the event of provocative chemical weapons strikes. the european union is imposing sanctions on russia. the question is why turkey is allowed to commit crimes against humanity, to attack greece, cyprus, syria, every country in its neighbourhood. we cannot continue to exonerate the criminal kingdom of erdogan. thank you, mr president.
answer to a question with a blue card. mr president, thank you, but i have a complaint: some of us got here early, but the time management wasn't right. my question is very simple: turkey, of all the parties involved in syria, is in violation of the unanimous security council resolution. is it morally right, as mrs mogherini has said, for us to provide turkey with billions of euros to manage syrian refugees and at the same time attack afrin in order to have new syrian refugees? that's a question we all have to answer.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioner, the problem is not solved by strict policing and regulations adopted outside africa. besides, since the beginning of human history, wars have been fought over 3tg and other precious metals and materials for weapons. the trojan war was not fought over a beautiful helen but over the gold of lydia and phrygia. cyprus is constantly changing conquerors for its copper, gold, vast forests and now for its natural gas. history is repeating itself. africa has vast deposits of precious metals which are exploited for the benefit of others and not the african people, and the areas where these precious minerals are found are the sites of bitter conflicts. if the exploitation of mineral wealth were done honestly and transparently, africa would be the richest continent and could escape poverty, underdevelopment and dependence on foreign aid. instead, the exploitation of mineral wealth is the cause of bloody conflicts, wars and massacres. africa remains underdeveloped and continues to spend the profits from its precious minerals to buy weapons with which africans kill each other. it does not spend its revenues on education, democracy, the well-being of the population, but on the violation of all human rights and especially the rights of children, in a savage form of modern slavery, as the world bank passionately denounced for the democratic republic of congo in 2008. in 2007, the european parliament took a very important step: it has tried to regulate the marketing of 3tg, especially for production from conflict areas, by means of accompanying measures. the european union, however, bears a great deal of responsibility for the whole situation. so what do we do as the european parliament and what does the commission do besides half measures?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the two political leaders are meeting in cyprus tonight, many months after the breakdown of the crans-montana talks. we must not ignore the fact that the cyprus problem can easily develop into - i am afraid to say - something like syria, following the profound islamization of the occupied areas of cyprus. i want parliament to send a message to both leaders to break the deadlock, but it must be on their table that parliament demands that turkey abandon its intention to remain troops or to remain guarantees after the solution to the cyprus problem. (applause from the centre and the right)
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate mr guerrero salom on his initiative in drawing up this report, and all those involved in the effort. the report suggests ways of assessing and increasing the effectiveness of the implementation of the financial instruments for development cooperation, humanitarian aid and the european development fund in relation to the european union's development and humanitarian aid policies, with the obvious aim of sustainable development and poverty eradication. the european union's coherent actions in both its internal and external policies are a driving force behind this. in order for the european union to remain a leader and an effective force in financing development cooperation and humanitarian aid, the new multiannual financial framework after 2020 should also provide for financial contributions from member states to respond to global challenges, whether man-made or natural disasters, always with full respect for human rights, the dignity of the poor, peace and democracy. the integration of the european development fund into the new multiannual financial framework constitutes a measure of coherence between the development and other policies of the european union, as well as a mechanism for the european parliament to exercise a thorough control over the transparency and effectiveness of development aid.
in writing. the overwhelming majority of meps agree with much of what was said in the speech, in particular for more europe with cohesion and solidarity that will defend european sovereignty in practice rather than in theory, for a europe that will protect the environment, promote quality of life and labour relations and of course implement the fundamental freedoms and rights of democracy and the rule of law of the eu in practice. these are the principles and values that cover all eu citizens without exception, in all 27 member states. however, european sovereignty is being crippled by turkish troops occupying the northern part of cyprus. it is sovereign eu territory but under turkish occupation. in addition, erdoğan's turkey is obstructing with its fleet the sovereign rights and plans of the eu in the eez of the republic of cyprus and is threatening war against greece in the aegean. a european leader differs from a politician in that the leader has a position on the difficult, not just the easy. today, we need european leaders and not just politicians. a european leader is defending by all means the european sovereignty that is being violated by turkey in cyprus and elsewhere.
mr president, i think there is no doubt that we need a global compact to deal with the migration issue. but i dare say, at least in relation to the european dimension of the migration issue, and i stress that i say 'issue' and not 'problem' or much more 'risk', that the united nations has been absent from its european dimension and that the european union has been left alone to deal with the issue of the few million refugees from syria. there are no sanctions against countries that do not take responsibility for the flow of migrants, such as hungary. i conclude with a reference to turkey to say that, in my view, it is excessive to fear that turkey will use the migrants in the country as leverage, and this is because i think that, when the borders from greece to europe are closed, there is no strong will on the part of the refugees to set off to come to the greek islands and have the fate that migrants have in those places, a fate much worse than the situation in the country in which they are.
mr president, what have interests turned syria into? in a vast ring, where the various players are beating but in the middle remains the syrian people. eleven million refugees, 6.5 million refugees in their own country, 5.5 million refugees abroad. we forgot the role of turkey, which invaded afrin, as we also forgot the kurds, who were the first to resist daesh. i welcome the brussels conference. but europe must take the lead in solving the problem, and i am proposing that a permanent international conference on the syrian problem be held in my country, cyprus, the european union's closest country to syria, to finally send a message that europe can solve problems.
madam president, the bombing of syria is a flagrant violation of international law, the un charter, the territorial integrity of syria, the human rights of the civilian population, and peace in the wider region. the pretext for the use of chemical weapons has no logic, it is not based on any evidence, but it reminds us of the lie used for the operation against iraq. in fact, the us, uk and france have carried out missile attacks in the wake of the imperialist intervention taking place in recent years against syria with the aim of regime change, redrawing borders in the middle east and controlling energy sources and roads. the british used the bases in cyprus for this missile attack, with all the risks that this entailed for the cypriot people. as for the european union, it is identical with the united states and adopts the strategy of imperialist interventions and further militarization through and increased investment in the war industry, at the expense of serving european monopolies and their wider geo-strategic interests.
madam president, i thank you in particular for giving me the floor after the incident in which a colleague, when i asked to ask him a question with a blue card, said that he does not accept questions from members of the house who come from communist parties. i think that this is a matter that should be rejected, not because it violates anyone's right not to answer a question, but because his argument, i repeat, violates every democratic principle. so we did what he's complaining about. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question, but i am sure that he will be able to give us a clear answer to this question. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, i think we must use every tool at our disposal in this parliament to strengthen or defend democracy, both in the member states and in countries beyond our borders. and while we all defend this, all or some of us argue that there can be no progress in this area without dialogue. in particular, with regard to russia, i think that despite any disagreements there is no other way than cooperation, interaction, and in any case, as long as the member states do not have a common foreign policy, this will continue to be delayed. but i want to close by saying that, despite whatever disagreements i may have with russian policy, i think the comparison of putin with hitler was a bit excessive, to say the least.
mr president, no one doubts that the possible meeting or the meeting that has been decided between the leaders of the united states and north korea is a positive development, regardless of what opinions each of us has about the personality of these two men. it is a positive development, we welcome it and hope that it will someday mark the reduction of tension in the region. the second thing i have to say is that the possible reunification of north and south korea would also be a very positive development, but i agree with what has been said before, that it would be a slow and very difficult process which i hope the two countries will manage to complete. the last thing i have to say, and i think it is the most important, is that we must all keep in mind that the ultimate goal is complete disarmament from nuclear weapons, because i fear that once we have discovered nuclear weapons at some point they will be used, either by mistake or deliberately, and the catastrophe will be in front of us.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, to simplify the picture completely and to make it clear to the citizens what we are talking about, it is as if you, mr president, were going home one night in rainy weather, and you accidentally walked into your neighbour's yard and he arrested you and kept you in the basement for two months. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the tragedy is that this picture is aggravated and dramatized if one sees what else, even worse, turkey is doing in the region, how much tension it is causing every day in the aegean and how much tension it has caused in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of cyprus. we are asking, together with all of you, together with the whole parliament, for a clear, clear, clear, clear majority message to be sent to the turkish president for the immediate release of these two greek officers.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, turkey's behaviour is not in keeping with the behaviour of a modern democratic state which is a candidate for membership of the european union. it refers to a terrorist organization which acts criminally, invades foreign countries such as cyprus, syria and iraq, uses chemical weapons against civilians, exterminates peoples and brutally oppresses every democratic turkish citizen. it threatens to occupy greek islands in the aegean, it forces greece into a continuous, costly and bloody readiness to face its attacks, and it organizes kidnappings in foreign countries. today we are discussing the abduction of two greek officers who either lost their way and entered turkish territory or, even worse, were trapped by a border crossing and abducted by the turkish gendarmerie. these officers are being held without charge. the european union cannot allow turkey to behave like a terrorist state. we demand the immediate release of the two soldiers and call on the president of the european parliament to intervene with the turkish authorities for their immediate and unconditional release.
mr. president, the facts with the two greek soldiers are simple: they were abducted on march 1, 2018 and the erdogan regime is seeking to use them as hostages to blackmail. a month and a half later, they haven't even been charged with anything. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of democratization in turkey, and it is the only institution in the country that has been able to do so. turkey, which oppresses the people within its own country, continues the occupation in cyprus, interferes in the exclusive economic zone of cyprus, threatens greece, cooperates with the islamic state and the jihadists to this day, invades afrin and threatens to flood us again with refugees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so please tell us how you will help in practice to free at least the two greek soldiers.
mr president, turkey continues to incessantly provoke and commit crimes in a series of acts, in defiance of european and international law and in violation of the sovereign rights of european union member states such as greece and cyprus. turkey has been occupying european territory, the territory of occupied cyprus, for 44 years and its intransigent attitude and behaviour have effectively prevented the talks from continuing, despite the intensive efforts and the expressed will of the president of the republic of cyprus. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of the hostages of the two greek soldiers who were guarding the european border with turkey. the european union has been called upon many times to stop tolerating and showing indifference to turkey's provocative behaviour and to take action. the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. i think it is time for the european union to show real will and determination and to send a clear and strong message: either turkey releases the greek officers or we take concrete measures. because i believe that no one can tolerate continued funding to turkey when turkey is violating all these principles and values of the european union, and i do not believe that there is a european citizen who would want funds from european funds to be granted to turkey.
the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. for several years we have been using the same policy towards turkey, a policy which has been called 'engagement policy' but which is essentially a policy of caress. the results are known and we all know them, the occupation of cyprus continues, turkey is threatening to intervene and has already intervened in the eastern mediterranean and is blocking energy plans that serve the european union, it is threatening greece with war, it has intervened militarily by invading afrin and, especially inside turkey, the people are suffering and things are worse. in other cases, and you know what i mean, we've imposed sanctions. whenever we suggest any policy other than petting, you reject it. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. one last word: we have many politicians in the european union, what we need is leaders and for the tough ones, that will write you into history.
mr president, the cambridge analytica and facebook scandals have demonstrated in practice the dangers inherent in globalisation when power is concentrated in the hands of a few shrewd and profiteering monopolies, which now have all the means to frame and manipulate the masses for their own benefit. this is the largest social media privacy breach ever discovered. as gue/ngl we strongly condemn any breach of personal data and stress the need for immediate and comprehensive democratic control, regulation and simplification of procedures so that users of social media can manage their personal data and regulate who can access it. we expect the european union to adopt stricter rules and to put in place a comprehensive regulatory and legislative framework for the effective protection of personal data. there are 370 million facebook users in europe and that is why we need to have new consultations, we need to invite facebook to the european parliament to discuss with them the necessary changes they must make, the new rules they must apply as they have declared, but also even stricter regulations.
madam president, i think all the grievances have been said and i will not repeat anything. let's see what we can do. there are many millions of fake profiles, but i think these are the easiest to remove because if you use the same method they use when you're trying to create an email address and they ask you for a thousand details, then you can't have a fake profile. second, i want to be able to delete my account quickly, easily, and be sure that there's nothing left in any other files. third, i need to be able to delete a post and still be sure that this post doesn't live somewhere else, and, lastly, i'm surprised by our surprise to be honest. now we learn that social media is being used by political powers and the powers of money to influence citizens in elections? of course, this is beyond imagination, but i think there is only one method and that the institutions, the laws and we can contribute to this, to control this social network.
i'm the editor. mr president, since 30 march we have witnessed, once again, the criminal action of the israeli army. they attacked the civilian palestinian people, staining peaceful protests with blood. the israeli occupation army has killed 34 palestinians and injured thousands. this year marks eleven years since the inhumane, all-out blockade of gaza began because of israel's barbarity. gaza is now an open prison crammed with 2 million people. we condemn in the strongest terms these flagrant violations of the human rights of the palestinians and demand an end to israel's criminal activity and that israel finally commit itself to implementing the decisions of the international community. we consider the resolution proposed by many political groups to be weightless. unfortunately, in many ways it equates the perpetrators, the murderous israeli occupation army, with the victims, the palestinians. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we call on the european union to stop its unacceptable policy of equal distances.
mr president, i just want to speak for a few seconds. unfortunately, we find that despite the warnings of the european parliament in a resolution that we adopted almost unanimously in july 2017 to prevent turkey from establishing a nuclear power plant 64 kilometers from cyprus, turkey has ignored this resolution that we supported and supported, has not listened to the suggestions of scientists and experts and has essentially gone to build a nuclear power plant in an earthquake-prone area, thus threatening the entire surrounding area, which is protesting, but also the mediterranean. we must call on turkey to respect the european parliament's resolution and to stop the construction of a nuclear power station in the mediterranean.
mr president, the multiannual financial framework will shape the future of the european union, and we consider it wrong, in the commission's proposal, to continue the neoliberal austerity policies themselves, which have led to the dismantling of the welfare state, the closure of thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises, the deindustrialization of the south in particular, the creation of an army of unemployed and the impoverishment of large sections of the population. the amendments we have tabled therefore call for the real economy to be boosted, social and regional cohesion to be promoted, vulnerable groups to be supported, concrete measures to be taken to combat poverty and to create new quality jobs with priority for young people. we consider the proposal to increase investment in defence and security, to further militarize the union, to be particularly negative. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. the european union should instead respect the principles it has proclaimed. he must invest in peace. to develop a policy of solidarity with refugees and to ensure prosperity and quality of life for the peoples of europe.
mr president, you began your first speech by saying that the common good we all enjoy here in the european union is peace and the pursuit of prosperity. we all agree and let us talk a little about the future of europe. i don't think we need to invent any other ideal. we have our ideals and they are enshrined as europe in the rule of law. we have the answers. we have the answer for banking union: deposit guarantee at the pan-european level. we have the answer to erdogan's turkey: sanctions. and if you don't believe in sanctions, you give us the answer. we are seeing the effect of mr juncker's gifts. as we speak today, he is sending back the persecuted refugees to blackmail us. so tell us an effective policy if you do not believe in sanctions.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, if the connecting europe programme is properly used, it can really help to create the necessary energy and transport infrastructure that is vital for the people of europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the european union for the financial year 2000. the aim should be to promote projects that are genuinely needed by society, that will contribute to strengthening regional cohesion, long-term development and the creation of new quality jobs, while at the same time complying with all environmental rules. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr president, on her work. i would like to congratulate you sincerely, together with the shadow rapporteurs, on this report. i would like to stress, also as a member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, that sustainable finance is not just about economic issues, but about the quality of the welfare of the whole of the european union, and by extension, of humanity. the environment, the green economy, climate change. i live in the latest, climate change. their terrible effects can be effectively countered only by long-term planning. unfortunately, a great truth has been said: the economy as it is cannot be left to run its course and ensure that the quality of prosperity is done the right way. this requires adjustment within our own design. congratulations again!
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on their report, but i would like to make two specific comments. the first concerns the fact that, unfortunately, there is no uniformity in the application of european legislation, and in particular of the guidelines of the european court of justice. i am referring specifically to my personal views on the decisions affecting the banking sector. it is a huge issue which we must re-examine, because the heterogeneity in the application of these decisions affects the concept of the administration of justice, but it also affects many other issues, such as, for example, unfair competition. the second point, and i conclude, is that i think there should have been at least one sentence in the report stating that in the occupied northern part of cyprus, which is part of the european union, the rule of law is unfortunately not applied because the turkish army is obstructing it.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms guteland, and the parliament very much for their work on this file. we share the same commitment and interest to strengthen the independence and effectiveness of judicial systems in our member states. these are essential for economic development, social peace and a secure europe. the 2018 justice scoreboard was adopted by the commission today. i am glad that your report takes into account many of its elements. it is important to remember that the scoreboard is a tool which is being continuously improved, and your recommendations will be considered for the future as well. your report calls for the expansion of the eu justice scoreboard into the field of criminal justice. the 2018 scoreboard expanded the coverage of money laundering and now shows, for nearly all countries, the length of court proceedings in money laundering cases. it shows that, while in about half of member states the first instance court proceedings take up to a year on average, these proceedings take around two years on average in several member states. you call for covering the status of public prosecutors and their autonomy. i am pleased to say that the 2018 scoreboard shows for the first time an overview of how prosecution services are organised in member states. the eu justice scoreboard feeds into the european semester country analysis in this respect. with regard to judicial independence, we are assessing the effectiveness of the national legal frameworks and safeguards in close cooperation with the judicial networks. we have developed a measurement of perceived judicial independence among companies and the general public. we also fully share parliament’s prioritisation of the use of ict tools, which is reflected in the 2018 scoreboard, for example the use of electronic means in judicial procedures and access to judgments online. these are indicators on how the needs of specific groups of users of justice systems – for example, children, visually impaired people, non—native speakers – are being taken into account in the provision of public information on the justice system, in the training of judges and in surveys of court users. as regards judicial training, the commission is currently evaluating the 2018 strategy, including public consultations. having said all this, it is important to recall that one of the key challenges for the development of information tools like the eu justice scoreboard is the collection of data. we would like to thank parliament for having called on member states to cooperate with the commission. when considering any new area of coverage, it is important to keep in mind the objective of the scoreboard and the ability to collect reliable data from all member states, based on a simple and clear indicator in line with european standards. your resolution comes at a time when upholding the rule of law is high on the eu agenda. i am convinced that with your support the eu justice scoreboard will continue to evolve in order to further help the member states improve the independence, quality and efficiency of their justice systems, which is crucial for upholding the rule of law.
mr president, the war crimes and crimes against humanity of recent years have come to the fore thanks to the terrible crimes of jihadists and other terrorist organisations operating outside the territory of the european union. we in the european union believe that the rule of law applies in all member states at least in relation to such heinous crimes. however, the other day in the occupied northern part of cyprus, a turkish cypriot named turgut genagrali bragged that he accompanied the turkish army during the 1974 invasion, himself as an officer, and coldly murdered defenseless greek cypriots, who were often tied up in backpacks. the same area, which is controlled by the turkish army, is also inhabited by another turkish cypriot, sener levent, who is defending the principles of the european union against erdogan. i think that we must do something to ensure that the crimes are not erased and that we also proceed to examine the crime of settlement in the occupied northern part of cyprus.
mr president, there is no doubt that the multiannual financial framework will determine the future of europe and the european union. it's what we have a clear vision for. we want a europe that is stronger, more social, safer, a better europe. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a disgrace for a modern europe to have young people unemployed. we cannot and must not abandon the countryside and our farmers. we must strengthen the social cohesion fund even more, not weaken it. we cannot abandon defence and security. we welcome and strongly support the strengthening of defence and security, because the european union must at last guarantee the territorial integrity and sovereignty of its member countries. we want to support and strengthen small countries such as cyprus and malta. but, commissioner, the european union is not just an economic union. it is based on principles and values and countries which violate those principles and values, such as turkey, cannot be financed through the multiannual financial framework. i believe it is time, mr oettinger, to freeze funds in the 2019 budget and, if turkey does not comply with principles and values, to freeze funds in the multiannual financial framework for turkey.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the fight against climate change, aid to agriculture and many other things are positive. the convergence of the real economy is the criterion of our success or failure. however, as young people leave the european periphery to seek work in other member states within continental europe, as turkey continues to enjoy european funds while violating the copenhagen political criteria - and i could say many more such things - unfortunately, you will not be convinced that this multiannual financial framework is our common priorities. it's not just what we say and do, it's what we don't do. we agreed on the three pillars for the european banking union, two of them were done, and the third one that would bring fair competition and empower the south was never done.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, un resolution 181 makes it clear that all actions by the israeli occupying power which alter the character and status of jerusalem are illegal and must be stopped. in this context, we also condemn in the strongest terms the decision of the united states to recognize jerusalem as the capital of israel. their action is a flagrant violation of international law, serves to perpetuate the occupation, undermines efforts to achieve a two-state solution, and, worst of all, ignites a new cycle of bloodshed against the civilian palestinian people. the israeli state terrorism, with its inhuman violence against peaceful protesters, has killed 117 and seriously injured thousands of palestinian civilians, including children. 128 states in the un general assembly have condemned the move of the us embassy to jerusalem and are calling for it to be cancelled. we consider that the statement by the european union, which rejected president trump's decision, was positive. we are also calling for the european union to stop its policy of equidistant treatment and the equation of the offender with the victim. it must put pressure on israel to end the criminal blockade of gaza, which has become an open prison with nearly two million people trapped in 365 square kilometers without adequate access to electricity and water and with many shortages in pharmacies and food. as the gue group, we express our solidarity with the palestinian people for a two-state solution and the recognition of an independent, sovereign, viable palestinian state on the 1967 borders with east jerusalem as its capital. (the president accepted the question with a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure) )
answer to a question with a blue card. the european union has a duty to ensure that the united nations is not forced to accept the decisions of the general assembly and the security council. we as the european union must always defend international law and the decisions of the international organization. it is in this context that we must reject this trump policy which, i repeat, perpetuates the occupation and ends the policy of peace in pursuit of the two-state solution. the peace in the middle east and palestine can only be achieved by two independent states living side by side.
question with a blue card. i would like to ask you two questions. if you'll be so kind as to tell me if you see any benefit to the two-state solution in moving the embassy from tel aviv to jerusalem. second, i'd like to ask you are you absolutely sure that israel wants any solution?
madam president, i would like to add a new face to the debate. there are reports this afternoon that a convoy carrying palestinians is leaving gaza, heading, according to the press, for cyprus. i think, mr hahn, that we must see immediately whether this will lead to new violence and new killings by israel and what action the european union can take to prevent further bloodshed. the second thing i have to say is that i understand that there is no one in this room who is pro-terrorism and i, much more than anyone else, want to raise my voice against terrorism. but i wonder what any of us would do if we were imprisoned in an open prison for so many years. we must also look at the causes of this violence.
mr president, commissioner, i should like to begin by congratulating you and all the other members who have done the same, for your reference to the need to hold accountable and bring to justice those who have executed innocent demonstrators. but let me say that i see a contradiction in relation to the previous debate on the execution of innocent palestinians, where nothing of the sort was requested of your colleague, mr hahn. i cannot understand this differentiation, not only on the part of the commission but also on the part of my colleagues. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are bought by our political views and not by our belief in freedom and peace, and that does not make us effective.
mr president, i think this debate is over. i too think that there is no other way than to talk to the american government and mr trump through the world trade organisation. i would remind you, however, that apart from the discussions, it has somewhat relaxed its measures on trade with china, given some of the countermeasures that have been taken by that country. so, outside the debate or within the debate, it must be clear what harm can be done to it by our countermeasures. but i would like to conclude by saying that i think the united kingdom may be inclined to want to exploit this difference to its advantage. so our discussions with the united kingdom on brexit must take account of the fact that the european union is willing and able to be solid towards the american government on this issue.
madam president, i too would like to thank mr panzeri for his many and important work. dear mrs. mogherini, i don't know what else can be added to your knowledge. i think, unfortunately, you know a lot more and have seen a lot more about libya than all of us here. but i would like to add a few ideas that have perhaps been heard to some extent. the european union is there to help if it wants to and can. not just with the visits. persistent presence in the direction of education, in the direction of bringing together warring factions, political and military, in the direction of investment. if the economy is not revitalised, if there is not a convergence of strongly different views within the country, i think, and you know this yourself, it will take many, many years. insistence on reconciliation within the country, on investment, on education.
mr president, mr avramopoulos, you have heard everything and i do not even need to repeat how positive the free movement of people is. you know better than i do how difficult it is to implement it so that it works the way we want it to. i have only one question and please see how you can answer it. when member countries, under the pretext of temporary measures, are in fact breaking the treaty, and the european union cannot say anything to them, then the rules are thrown out of the window. what do you intend or what can we do or what can you do so that, if the breach of signed rules is repeated in the future, you can deal with it in an effective way? otherwise, we prove that we are just saying words.
in writing. – i would like to stress out that turkey violates the eu's external borders and the question of the schengen zone and the security of the external borders, which is the core subject of the annual report on the functioning of the schengen area, is not just about the implementation of schengen under normal circumstances, and even in countries with no land borders such as cyprus and malta, but also about the unacceptable situation in a member state which is under occupation, such as the republic of cyprus. cyprus does not belong to the schengen zone because, due to the occupation, it cannot exercise effective control over its occupied part. this issue is not only our problem but also the eu's one, whose borders are being violated by turkey, while security issues are being raised for which ankara has sole responsibility.
question with a blue card. in fact, i wanted to put the question to the rapporteurs, but i think that every member and mrs pérez can answer it. in cyprus recently, a turkish cypriot, now 84 years old, proudly stated on television that he had killed dozens of unarmed greek cypriots and civilians and even said that he was "burning" for the fact that some had escaped him! i have a specific question: are we entitled and obliged to bring to justice people who have so brutally violated the human right to life, even though 44 years have passed? i would also argue that this applies to greek cypriot criminals. the question therefore remains for the rapporteurs whether, after all these years, we are entitled and obliged to bring them before the court.
mr. chairman, i would like to begin by joining my colleagues in expressing our condolences to the victims of today's terrorist attack. now let me turn to the actual text of the directive. i remember when i negotiated the text of this legislation for the czech republic more than nine years ago. at the time, there was a lot of support for fixing the minimum legal standard for victims of crime in europe. it is shocking and incomprehensible to me that after more than eight years there are member states which have not yet transposed these rules into their national legislation. unfortunately, this is illustrated by the problem of european law, where we find it difficult to explain to our citizens why the european union does not always regulate and operate effectively when the member states are not willing to meet their obligations. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to put maximum pressure on the member states to fulfil the commitments they made eight years ago, and thus help to ensure that victims of crime have the same legal standards throughout europe.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. this is a report which i consider to be a fight for the rights of victims of crime, and particularly the most vulnerable, who have already been mentioned: minors, the uneducated, the disabled, the elderly, victims of human trafficking, migrant workers, and so on. i will concentrate on one point, however. the treatment of victims by the judicial process may indeed in itself constitute a second victimisation of the victims themselves. the administration of justice is therefore, unfortunately, decisively affected by the determination of the victim to defend to the end his right to punish the guilty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the missing persons since 1974, with the signs of their cold execution, are handed over to their relatives without recording the cause of death.
mr. president, i'll be on time this time. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. we must not forget that this is a compromise text, but the objective was ambitious from the outset: a strong trading system based on rules that promote fair trade and the european union speaking with one voice. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january, is intended to ensure that the common organization of the market in bananas is not affected by the introduction of the single market. so far so good. unfortunately, however, the application of international trade rules through the world trade organization's judicial mechanisms has not always been impartial or effective. for example, turkey continues to violate international trade rules against a particular member state of the european union, and you know this very well, commissioner.
mr prime minister, welcome to the party! i'm going to ask you a question that i've asked the previous leaders we've had here before. it is the future of europe that is at stake, and you mentioned it in your initial speech. you talked about energy security. in the eastern mediterranean, the european union is developing an energy strategy. the commissioner responsible is here too, although he is talking to a colleague. the european union's energy strategy in the eastern mediterranean is centred on the republic of cyprus and turkey has intervened with its fleet and is impeding the energy plans of cyprus and the european union. i want to hear your position. what are we supposed to do ? are we going to sanction? please don't pretend you didn't hear the question. leaders are different from politicians because they have a place in the tough times.
mr president, the main cause of these major disasters, which claim hundreds of lives, is mainly climate change and, of course, the failure of states to protect their citizens. thirty years from now, dear colleagues - too many in this room know this - the earth will not be what we know it to be today. the european union is doing a lot to defend the climate of the planet, but it seems that we have not yet managed, as a global community, to see the great problems that arise, whether from droughts or floods, as a result of climate change. that said, and i am also in favour of state sovereignty, i do not accept the view that the forests in portugal should be burning, with so many hundreds of dead, and that there should not be a mechanism of support and fire-fighting from a neighbouring state which might have this capability. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr ismael ertug not only for bringing an important issue before the house but also for having succeeded in uniting, perhaps completely, the whole house in favour of the views he has put forward, which have of course also been mentioned by the commissioner. i would argue that this thing should be considered a serious crime, considered a fraud. we must also take into account that this fraud is causing a lot of accidents. this is a much bigger issue than the question of the economic damage suffered by either the member state or the citizens themselves. the accidents and deaths that often result from the event being reported in this debate. i therefore agree that information and correct records should be passed from one country to another so that the buyer is aware, and the necessary legal framework should be created in this direction.
mr president, first of all i would like to thank mrs gebhardt, because she has brought a very sensitive matter to parliament. i was really surprised to hear that the legal status of children raised by parents in a cohabitation agreement is not regulated in the european union. but i was much more surprised by the commission's reply, which i must say i did not fully understand. the commissioner was saying that this is not the case, because children from a cohabitation agreement are included, but then i heard something about an agreement by all the member states. i think that needs to be clarified and i do not need to repeat that thousands of children are now being born without their parents being married in the conventional way.
madam president, it is well known that we are discussing the possibility of relocating a company from one country to another, from one region of europe to another. i am, however, very surprised that arguments are being made to defend the idea that, along with the company, workers should take their parts as tools, as machines, as buildings, and move where the company wants. workers are people, not tools. the ability to move from one country to another, the freedom of movement, is a right. it can't be an obligation. and much more, perhaps, and under conditions much worse than the conditions under which he worked in the state where he worked before. i think that if there is one duty for members of the european parliament, it is to defend the workers.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i won't do it. i shall stick to the subject we are discussing, namely pre-accession aid to turkey, which is given for very specific objectives, namely to bring the country into line with european issues. but here we have information that has already been received by some colleagues so far - and i think this will continue - that this pre-accession aid is being used by turkey to buy tanks, which then effectively fight the ability of refugees to enter the country. if the information that these tanks, bought with european union money, have been used to murder people is not true, then i think we too are partly responsible for a situation in which we should not have been in any case. the commissioner has said something different - i have heard it - that it is not these tanks, it is something else, but there is also the information that i and my colleagues have referred to, and i think you have every right and obligation to clarify what information you have specifically on the allegations that refugees have been murdered with european union money.
madam president, commissioner, it is daily proved that as long as the european union continues to tolerate and finance turkey, turkey will continue to degrade, cause, multiply problems and leave the european union exposed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. have you asked european citizens if they would give one euro today to finance turkey? i can assure you that if you asked them, the answer would be clear: no funding to turkey because european citizens believe firmly in the principles and values of the european union and these principles and values are violated and violated every day by turkey. it is an oxymoron to fund and reward a country which in effect disrespects, violates every human right, challenges and threatens member countries of the european union. where is european solidarity in greece and cyprus when they are threatened by the country that is financed, when they are threatened by a country that continues to receive financing? you have very rightly said that european union member states continue to sell arms to turkey. the us congress has voted by a majority to stop the sale of arms to turkey because turkey does not respect principles and values, because it violates rules. the european union will take such a decision to ban the sale of arms to the member states of the european union when america itself has stopped it and the european union had a thousand reasons to ban the sale of arms to turkey by the member states. the commissioner, in this sitting, and i am closing, you must give a clear answer on turkey in this plenary, in this european parliament. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. )
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. money is given to guard the border and that money is used to murder unarmed civilians at its borders. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european parliament has been very active in this area, and i am sure that the commission will be very active in this area in the future. is it time to take a different path? the road of sanctions against turkey in the same way as with russia? i think the answer should be immediate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but you will agree with me that neither you nor any of us can ignore the european treaties, which stipulate that, in order to be a member state in the accession procedure, it must meet the well-known copenhagen criteria, as they are called. i shall read you only one, the first criterion, which refers to the treaties: for accession negotiations to begin, the country must meet the first criterion, stability of institutions guaranteeing democracy, the rule of law, human rights and respect for and protection of minorities. if you think that turkey today meets these criteria, tell us, if not, tell us how we will get back not only the new funds, but also the funds that the erdoğan regime is misusing against the turkish people and against minorities, above all against the kurds.
the situation in turkey is becoming more acute. the breakdown of the rule of law, the violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the crackdown on the kurds and the silencing of journalists all add to the inhuman conditions that prevail. mr erdoğan, under the pretext of the coup attempt, state terrorism continues to imprison and torture thousands of people illegally, while turkey continues to violate international law and illegally and by force of arms occupy a member state of the european union and, moreover, by means of aggressive acts of piracy, to challenge the sovereign rights of cyprus in the cypriot eez. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the principle of subsidiarity, which is a fundamental principle of the treaty. pre-accession assistance is provided to support the european union in implementing reforms to bring countries into line with the european acquis. it is unacceptable to ask for any financial support to be given to turkey when it is not only not working to implement its contractual obligations as a candidate country for membership but is brutally undermining the principles and values proclaimed by the union.
madam president, first of all, we should like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on their report. we all made a discovery today: girls and women continue to be systematically oppressed and their rights trampled on around the world. we cannot be satisfied if half the population is left behind. there has been progress, but in some places, unfortunately, the situation has worsened. the commission has already mentioned something we have all experienced and cannot forget: the suffering of the girls of the yazidi community at the hands of ruthless jihadists. last night we spoke about the protection of victims of crime, also within the european union, and that is why i believe that if we want to act as a model, we cannot accept compromises on the rule of law within the european union.
in writing. i have made this clear to the house before: it is time for all of us in the european parliament to say no more declarations, no more words and to take immediate action. the role that the eu can play in gender equality can and must be crucial. equality between men and women is one of the fundamental principles and values on which the european union is founded. it must therefore be implemented and integrated into all eu activities and policies. we therefore call on the european commission to propose targeted actions. in closing, i would like to reiterate my deep respect, appreciation and admiration for every woman, worker, mother, activist.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, we are few in number in this chamber this morning, but a few metres outside these walls, a few kilometres away from us, hundreds of thousands of people constitute a sad army of people living under the traumatic experiences of precarious work, not to mention unemployment. hundreds of thousands of people who suffer from having a two-hour day because they can't be offered more, or four or six hours, and are paid perhaps much less than that. hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of people in the countries of the south, but also in the countries of northern europe, are experiencing the incredible trauma of living in conditions that are not permitted in the modern european union. yesterday we were discussing here the possibility of companies moving factories from one state to another. their right to move their company wherever they want, as well as their tools, their cars, their buildings. people are not tools to be picked up and moved from one state to another. the two i have mentioned are linked, precarious work and the obligation to move, using the formidable argument of the right to free movement. that's a right, not an obligation. i would like to conclude by saying that the issue we are discussing today concerns many of our brothers, our relatives, people outside this room, but it is we ourselves who must represent them.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the conditions of employment are not affected by the economic crisis. however, the balance between employers and workers has been eroded for the worse since the economic crisis or by the threat of economic crisis. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to participate in the negotiations. so the question we all face is how do we limit abusive behavior by employers towards employees. i think two are the tools. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the first is what mr juncker has said: a new principle of law enforcement at pan-european level, including judicial decisions. the second is rapid extrajudicial mechanisms. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. for example, i mean by avoiding abusive working conditions.
we welcome the establishment of a european union aviation safety agency and support the package of measures to strengthen aviation safety. in this respect, we owe a tribute to our dear colleague, marian-jean marinescu, who has really created this very sound and powerful framework. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in this spirit, however, i must point out that there is one country, turkey, which continues to violate international aviation rules to the extent that it actually creates safety problems. i must point out to the european parliament and to the european commission that turkey is constantly violating the airspace and the fir of the republic of cyprus with its civil and military aircraft. i must emphasize to the utmost that turkish airlines continue to be illegally present at the illegal airport of tybo, to use it and not to apply any aviation rules with all the implications for safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commissioner knows very well that turkey has not implemented the ankara protocol and is currently prohibiting european aircraft, aircraft of the republic of cyprus, from crossing turkish airspace and ships flying the flag of cyprus, flying the flag of europe, from calling at turkish ports. in this context, what will the european commission do to resolve this issue and to provide real answers with regard to turkey?
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is our position that education must remain the responsibility of the state and be human-centred. school should remain a fundamental learning environment for the development of young people's potential, providing equal opportunities and equality of opportunity for all children and young people. at the same time, education must be protected from the imposition of market rules and the interests of multinational companies which institutionalize workplace insecurity and promote the breakdown of industrial relations. the response to the huge youth unemployment remains the break with neoliberal policies. we need more spending on education and more public investment to ensure that young graduates enter the world of work smoothly and are guaranteed decent jobs with full employment rights.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. however, in several cases the european commission has found ineffective enforcement of the legislation, especially in relation to credit and banking institutions. the continuing inefficiency in the implementation of european directives is an injustice. for example, the european union requires that each member state ensure that contracts concluded with consumers do not contain abusive clauses. the banks have an obligation, but the member state also has an obligation to ensure that they are eliminated in an effective manner. unfortunately, if there is no binding mechanism, as in the case of cyprus, the european directive on unfair terms does not apply.
madam president, despite all the occasional declarations for a social europe, for jobs, for the fight against unemployment, for growth, the commission and the council are firmly following the fruitless and pointless neoliberal policy of austerity and deregulation of industrial relations, policies which lead to the dismantling of the welfare state, to the widening of social and regional inequalities, to impoverishment and militarisation. funds are constantly being cut from programmes to support sustainable development and social cohesion, permanent internal troika mechanisms are being financed in the member states, the new special fund for defence is being financed to benefit the profitability of military monopolies. the commission is also financing new border barriers on the road to a strong europe. as the gue group we insist that in order to achieve growth and create new jobs, we need to shift investment towards social investments and programmes, we need long-term public investment to create permanent and decent jobs, investment in the real economy to re-industrialise areas in need, investment to promote social development and solidarity between peoples.
madam president, we are conscious believers in the european union. we believe in the strength, the potential and the values of the european union and we believe that without the european union there is no future for europe, no future for the peoples of europe and no future for the countries that are members of the european union. we believe that the european union is the present and the future of all of us, and we are therefore defending it with all our strength. but the european union itself must respect its principles and values if we are to continue to have a strong, solid, solid and credible european union. the european union has rightly imposed sanctions on countries which do not apply the principles, values and rules of the european union. but at the same time, since 2005, it has been financing with billions of euros a country which violates all the principles of international and european law, a country which does not recognize a member of the european union, the republic of cyprus, a country which today is violating human rights, is threatening member states of the european union, greece and cyprus, and recently threatened austria and all of europe with religious war. and we continue to reward her. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european union is not prepared to accept the turkish attitude and behaviour. i would like to ask the same question of the european council, which must finally take up its responsibility and ensure that the european union respects its principles and values by applying laws and rules to all countries.
mr president, economic and monetary union has been the economic foundation of the european union that has brought us to this point. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for example, we need a european monetary fund which is anchored in european union law but which is also in line with our own priorities. for example, large economic disparities lead to increased political divergence and extremism, dangerously fuelling populism. we need an emu which is more accountable, democratically accountable to this european parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr. president, i apologize for the delay. i have asked for a procedural question to be put to the vote. i'm sorry to have to bring this up now. i would like to inform the house that: the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. among them is turkish cypriot colleague and competitor şener levent. a man whom i deeply respect, a man whom i like very much, whom i love and whose candidacy i also supported. i do not think it is appropriate for a winner of the european citizen's prize to appear in an article in this capacity, denouncing me, my colleague neoklis silikiotis and our party for being in favour of the occupation and the presence of occupation troops and guarantees in cyprus. that's totally wrong! you all know our struggles here and i consider that on his part was an inappropriate move. when you're attacked by a friend, it takes a lot of courage to maintain a level that sustains the relationship. i am keeping this possibility, i want to maintain the relationship with this man and i express my appreciation for his struggle against the occupation. may it allow us to keep the same capacity and the same patriotism.
mr president, commissioner, with the 2015 agreement, the european union committed itself to effectively controlling iran's nuclear programme while lifting sanctions against that country. we are certainly in favour of the agreement, even after the withdrawal of the united states, which is pursuing a forward-looking policy, provided, of course, that iran also respects its obligations. the lifting of sanctions will have a positive impact on the survival of the poor people of iran, will help develop democracy and overthrow the regime, but at the same time will help the union's economic relations with that country. i would remind you that many iranian planes have crashed at times, dragging hundreds of people to their deaths, because, according to tehran's claims, we did not sell spare parts for their maintenance. i would point out that the application of sanctions is effective when it is not selective, either in relation to the same crime, such as the acquisition and proliferation of nuclear weapons, or in relation to similar crimes, such as the occupation of foreign territories. we are imposing sanctions on russia, but we are caressing turkey.
madam president, madam mogherini, we are discussing and rightly denouncing mr trump's stance on the iran denuclearisation deal. but don't you think we're obliged to broaden the subject a little? can we not find a word to say on this subject in favour of the denuclearization of the planet? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this great issue, this great catastrophe over the heads of humanity, cannot be left out of the discussion when we talk about the denuclearization of a particular state or a particular region. let me remind you, mrs mogherini, and i am speaking on a personal matter, but i have to do so, of our militant past in favour of the denuclearisation of the planet.
mr president, commissioner, this report concerns the protection of human rights in third countries. the european union must of course be the guardian of human rights without discrimination, because what differentiates us around the world is the fact that human rights are the foundation of the european union. but i regret to say that while we have a view on uganda, on latin america, on russia, we unfortunately discriminate in the way we treat countries. and i'll be completely honest with you with one specific example: the commission's lack of credibility, if not its hypocrisy, is evident in the way it is handling turkey. unfortunately, the commission does not represent the collective interests of the european union properly. in order to disguise turkey, it 'packaged' it together with seven balkan countries, when in fact it is in an accession status and had to strictly observe the laws and regulations of the european union.
madam president, in my view, if the european union really wants to become a pole of peace, independent and different from other military axes, it should develop its tendency towards peace and human rights, away from military equipment. at the same time, there is supposed to be solidarity between the states that are members of nato. but i would like to read you a statement by mr bakhtcheli, erdogan's main supporter, against greece. the declaration shall state the following: greece is playing games with the aegean islands and must know its limits. they must not forget what their grandfathers went through on the bottom of the aegean. the will of the turkish people, thank god, still exists and the aegean will be a graveyard for the greeks. shouldn't this toxic statement be reported? furthermore, when asked why he presents cyprus as turkish in a campaign ad, he said: yes, you did. it is and will remain turkish. i would like to say to him that cyprus is the home of greek cypriots and turkish cypriots and if today cyprus is a captive of turkey, at some point turkish politics will become a captive of cyprus.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. it is a policy which goes hand in hand and should be the highest priority for all of us. i therefore fully agree with my dear colleague nuno melo, who stressed that there can be no cuts in cohesion policy, because this is essentially an attack on the periphery, on the poor countries that need cohesion policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. support for these policies means support for rural areas, it means support for the regions, it means green economy, it means green growth, it means jobs. we must defend these policies and it is time to do so in order to make the european union itself stand out. small and isolated countries, such as my country cyprus, need these policies because they are in a bad situation, especially the rural sector, the periphery and the countryside. that is why we support these policies and will defend them with all our might.
mr president, today marks one year since the signing of the istanbul convention. unfortunately, however, violence against women continues to escalate and takes many forms, including psychological, physical and sexual harassment, forced abortion, prostitution and honour killings. at the same time, neoliberal austerity policies are intensifying other forms of oppression, such as labour suppression, wage and benefit cuts, the abolition of all forms of welfare, the firing of pregnant women and refugee status, where thousands of women are forced to survive in harsh conditions and protect their children. this calls for decisive action and decisive action at both union and member state level. the ratification and implementation of the convention is without reservations, without savings and without obstacles. as a gue group, we will continue to fight to the end for a society free of violence, exploitation and inequality.
in writing. unfortunately, there are various misconceptions and misunderstandings about this convention. we therefore make it clear that the convention is not against gender roles or against the family and its values. the convention combats violence, and in particular violence against women on the grounds of racial inequality. in addition, the convention combats the often invisible but blatant domestic violence, 'silent oppression' and psychological violence, where victims have no escape options but are subjugated by their weakness to the powerful abuser. in cyprus, significant progress has been made on the legislative framework and there is increased awareness of the issue in order to prevent and combat violence against women and domestic violence. however, we still struggle to identify victims in time, especially children, the elderly and the disabled. to anyone who tries to cover up domestic violence against women with a religious cloak or with a supposedly traditional attitude, i conclude as follows: any social behavior or religion that conceals or condones such brutality has no place in the modern civilized world. we support the convention because we are for man and we abhor violence in all its forms.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, commissioner, the main objective of strong cooperation between the eu and the acp countries is to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable economic, cultural and social development in the partner countries, with the progressive integration of their economies into the world economy. both the eu and the acp countries should benefit from this exchange of experience between them. the negotiating mandate for the future agreement between the eu and the acp countries was approved two weeks ago in togo. in this context, the fundamental principles of the cotonou partnership agreement must be maintained and made part of our future treaty. supporting and promoting human rights and democratic principles, developing policies to build peace and enhance security in vulnerable areas, promoting democracy, addressing migration and climate change, combating terrorism and, finally, addressing food insecurity are fundamental issues to be addressed. political dialogue should remain a central pillar in the broader framework of the new agreement, while the principles of effective development cooperation should be fully incorporated into the new acp-eu partnership agreement. finally, on a practical level, i strongly believe that the eu should play a central role in training and developing skills for the people of the acp countries, while supporting them to stay and work in their own countries. thank you, madam president, for your patience. i also thank the translators who have the patience to support us in our work despite the problems they themselves face.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement between parliament, the commission and the council on the defence industry essentially confirms the further militarisation of the union through increased investment in military research and military equipment. the gue/ngl categorically rejects the agreement in question, as it is unacceptable and destructive for the peoples to use funds from the union budget and from development programmes to finance the defence industry. the available funds must be used to meet the real needs of people who are suffering from unemployment and poverty as a result of the economic crisis. we therefore urge that the financing of the arms industry and of wars be stopped, that money be given to peace and solidarity, to the re-industrialisation of the south, to the creation of new quality jobs and to the promotion of research to serve the real needs of society.
the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism, and that it is able to take action in the fight against terrorism. there can be no strong europe without a strong europe which can defend itself, as my dear colleague esteban very aptly did, defend its own defence model, but also safeguard the sovereignty and the borders of its member countries. we therefore support with all our strength the strengthening of the european union's defence capability, so that the european union can be truly self-sufficient in the face of any threat. we support the development of industrial know-how, we support the development of the european union's capabilities and potential. i believe that the objective of all this effort should be one: financing and investment in the field of defence; the european union should be able to safeguard the sovereignty and external borders of its member countries against any external danger. we are not satisfied that european union member countries such as greece and cyprus are daily threatened by turkey, that their sovereign rights are daily violated, without a unified response and capability on the part of the european union, despite the fact that it remains our only stable and strong ally. we also believe that this defence capability of the european union and the protection of industrial know-how must be subject to rules and principles. the member states of the european union cannot arm and strengthen militarily countries which have an aggressive and expansionist policy, such as turkey. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, a very interesting report and i think that the promotion of peace, security and conflict prevention has been and remains a longstanding priority of the european union at the un. to this was added our concern about the international scourge, the modern scourge of terrorism. but coming from a small member state of the european union, which remains a victim of turkish invasion and occupation, i have a personal understanding of the violence that arises from the force of arms. i am myself a refugee from the occupied part of cyprus. the european union is also working to develop a common policy on the mediterranean, which is based on the principle of subsidiarity. the un convention on the law of the sea is what governs our cooperation. the european union has a duty to ensure that the international community is able to take action to prevent the further spread of the scourge of terrorism.
mr president, first of all i would like to reiterate our group's support for the just strike of the interpreters. the middle east and the eastern mediterranean are an active volcano. we have constantly intense military conflicts. the need for peace and for the resolution of problems that have plagued the region for decades. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. it's been a year since the crans-montana shipwreck. the stagnation in the negotiations was accompanied by turkey's illegal activity within the cypriot eez. no one can predict the outcome unless negotiations are resumed immediately with a view to reaching an agreement as soon as possible on the basis of the agreed framework for a solution. the forthcoming contacts of the special representative of the un secretary-general are an excellent opportunity to resume a substantive dialogue on the cyprus issue and direct talks. the secretary-general has described in his recent reports that they must pick up where they left off. the european union as a whole must step up, support the efforts of the un, and put pressure and sanctions on turkey so that it finally accepts its responsibilities.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, first of all, let me reiterate the support of the gue/ngl for the fair struggle of the interpreters in this parliament, who are on their 29th day of strike action. at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we support the struggle of the austrian workers against the concerted effort by your government, mr chancellor, and the employers' organizations to abolish the eight-hour day, to introduce up to twelve hours of work a day, 60 hours a week. we send our solidarity to the austrian workers, 100,000 of whom took part in the militant demonstrations last saturday in vienna in defence of the eight-hour day. the austrian presidency's slogan is 'a europe that protects'. from whom should the european union protect itself, mr chancellor? of the impoverished workers whose most basic conquests are threatened by your own government, who is going to assume the presidency of the council? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social dimension of the internal market is not undermined. from the community workers in austria, whom you treat like second-class citizens? who else does the european union need to protect against, mr chancellor? from the refugees driven from the wars? of the desperate, who only want the right to a peaceful and better life? your austrian government has been at the forefront of recent council decisions for more fortress europe, for more deaths in the mediterranean, for the confinement of people in warehouses inside and outside the european union, in concentration camps for migrants and refugees, promoting illegal expulsions of migrants and refugees, promoting the externalisation of borders with border guards in war-torn and devastated countries such as libya, creating boarding platforms there and violating the internationally guaranteed right to asylum, which continues the trade in human souls with the eu-turkey agreement. the decision by the participating conservative and racist, i would say, far-right parties, including the epp parties, and your government, to close the borders, is contrary to the legal and moral obligations of the member states. at the same time, it means that some member states are shouldering a disproportionately greater share of the responsibility than all the member states of the union should share. the famous solidarity is a blank slate. as gue, we join our voices with all those who say that the danger for europe is not refugees and migrants, but wars and imperialist interventions, which the union and the member states have supported in practice, and growing economic and social inequalities, racism and xenophobia. what is needed are initiatives to bring an immediate end to the wars and bloodshed in the middle east and north africa, and to provide real and effective development aid and support to african countries. we are again calling for the dublin agreement to be abolished and for safe and legal pathways for refugees to be created. all the member states of the union, without exception, should take part in the reception of refugees, according to their possibilities, on the basis of the principle of solidarity. as gue, we remain firm in our positions for a social europe, for social cohesion, for a europe of solidarity and peace.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the debate has moved from council conclusions to a debate on immigration says it all. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will then be able to take a decision on the matter. you are excused. but what's the harm if you're not responsible? it's because states, some states, think that it's in their interest, what they do, is isolation, encirclement, national borders. how can this be changed and what is your responsibility? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. do that, and if they don't accept it, say so and denounce them publicly. you'll be out of this position tomorrow. at least, you should feel that you have transmitted this vision of a visionary change within the european union. if i were an immigrant, if you were mr tusk, mr avramopoulos, mr juncker, if you were an immigrant and you were reading the conclusions, what would you do? i think i'd go drown myself, i wouldn't have any other choice. i hate to say it so extreme, perhaps extreme, but we're not giving a solution. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, as a doctor, i'm sure you're familiar with the term homeostasis. the word in english is the same, homeostasis and introduces the concept of the balance of species in nature. i firmly believe that the ebola and aids viruses exist precisely because of homeostasis. and we need to know that if we're going to deal with them. four years ago, west africa was struck by an ebola epidemic and the european union made a significant, albeit belated, contribution to its response. last may, a new outbreak of haemorrhagic fever occurred in the democratic republic of congo. haemorrhagic fever is endemic to the congo and appears to have first appeared in that country's ebola river. pandemics are dealt with aggressively with rapid and aggressive action. because in west africa we were late, now very rightly we reacted immediately, so we avoided the spread of the virus. the european union has provided direct assistance of eur 1.7 million to the congo for experts, emergency personnel and equipment. of course, democratization, health education, unhindered access to health services and education are fundamental measures to combat deadly viruses.
mr president, you have referred initially to our greco-roman cultural roots and our christian tradition. this is a historical fact which we do not question or discuss today. what we are discussing is whether the rule of law of the european union, the rule of law which has the common rules so that we all european citizens can live together in a common future, will be fully respected by poland as well. the question we are discussing is whether there can be a european parliamentary democracy without a european rule of law. i would therefore like to refer to what my colleague, mr joseph, has already mentioned. in a statement you made, you said that security is above the law. unfortunately, this reminds me of another new sultan you're not related to, erdogan.
madam president, commissioner, i too would like to express my gratitude to the interpreters and my support for their problems, which seem to be forgotten every day. as far as greece is concerned, you have presented us with a 'success story' with the country returning to the markets. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to talk about a success story, we must give the greek people back their optimism. so do not tell us that greece has been saved and that the extensions granted will wipe out the 300 million debt. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the greek people do not want loans, madam president, but they want the impetus and motivation to save themselves and get back on their feet.
madam president, i would like to express my sympathy to the interpreters. greece was on the verge of exiting the eurozone as recently as 2015. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and we know who they were. so today we have good news. we must therefore give credit to commissioner moscovici and to the president of the eurogroup, mr centeno, as well as to some of those who are not in this chamber today. for example, in the face of those who were pushing greece over the edge, this political group and its president reached out to the greek people. beyond governments and ideologies, because we wanted to support the greek people who suffered and paid a huge price. i'll close with a question: the conditions we are seeing in greece and cyprus make it imperative that a european-wide deposit guarantee scheme be implemented.
madam president, it is very positive that greece is leaving the programme. however, the pace of reforms must be increased if the greek state is to be attractive to investment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. these days in cyprus, a new economic drama is unfolding. the cancellation of the guarantees for the cooperative bank of cyprus from non-performing loans is leading to a new cycle of uncertainty in the cypriot economy and the cypriot citizens are once again called upon to pay the bride. let me remind you of the notorious bail-in heist in 2013, where we were used as guinea pigs. the commission has not received any comments from the cypriot authorities on the alleged breach of the undertaking. but there are also responsibilities for the european central bank, because it could behave differently towards a member state that is just beginning to get its foot in the door of the economy.
the right of disabled people to participate in the whole political process leading to the right to vote and to stand for election is a fundamental right for all citizens in a democracy. people with mobility impairments, with reduced visibility, with psychosocial disabilities, people who are in foster care, who are confined and locked up, these are of course denied the right to vote, but even more so the right to participate effectively in a democracy. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it is the european parliament that has always been a party to the treaty of rome. so i'll end with a phrase that i think sums up the point: the right to participate in the whole electoral process of voting and being elected in a democracy is also a matter of dignity.
mr. prime minister, on your last visit i defended you. i defended the government and the prime minister of greece. i disagree that you all stood together then, as was said. on the contrary, you have been severely criticized and insulted, as have all greeks. i am not, of course, absolving europe of responsibility for everything that happens to us, everything that happens to greece. however, today i cannot do the same. i can't defend you because i don't believe in your "success story". i have strong disagreements, but i can't discuss them. i don't want to, i can't do this. i will say this: it was said that you were brave in giving the name to skopje. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. )
mr president, we congratulate you on the fact that the greek people, through restructuring but also through hardship and pain, can now look forward to a better future. in 2015, in this european parliament, i remember very well that when some in your circle and some here were pushing greece to the cliff outside the eurozone, this group of socialists and democrats extended its hand, above politics and ideologies, because we believe in greece, we believe in social policy and we believe in europe. that is why i am asking you about the future: how will we promote european policies for a pan-european deposit guarantee, how will we promote european energy policies in the eastern mediterranean and how will the rule of law finally prevail in the occupied northern part of cyprus?
madam president, mr brok, the rapporteur, recalled the european union's assistance to the united states in the attack on afghanistan. let's think about this for a second. this attack was designed to kill terrorists, a hundred, two hundred, but it has created thousands more. shouldn't that be a concern? it killed a hundred, it created thousands, and we have millions of refugees and thousands of other civilians dead. the european union must continue to take such a position towards a state which, especially under the presidency of mr trump, is pursuing the most extreme, the most reactionary form of foreign policy, a policy dictated solely by the geopolitical and economic interests of multinationals and the military industry. i'll tell you one last thing and then i'll hang up: did you hear the other day the statement of mr. bolton who said that the criminal court should be abolished because he intends to try americans? so he only judges others? will they be judging the judges? the european union is also silent here.
madam president, the israeli decision to demolish the bedouin village of khan al-ahmar in the occupied west bank serves only one purpose: to seize bedouin land to expand existing illegal settlements which will lead to the final partition of the west bank. in this way, israel controls the land and natural resources in palestine while annexing east jerusalem, while building the illegal wall in the west bank and while keeping the gaza strip under siege for over ten years. instead of ending the occupation, israel legitimizes it by continuing the expansion of settlements, by attacks against the palestinian people, by demolitions of schools and homes, by imprisonment of children, by murders and rapes. finally, the european union, madam high representative, must react decisively; the european union must take action; it must put pressure on israel not to demolish the bedouin community and to make the palestinian bedouins refugees for a third time. the european union is not a party to the peace process, but it is a party to the peace process, and it is a party to the peace process.
the european union is a political union, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe, a political union of the peoples of europe. we are in full agreement with the president of the european commission, mr juncker, that we need a strong european union. but for a strong european union to exist, it is essential that it safeguards, defends and protects the sovereign rights of its member countries and, at the same time, upholds principles and values. the european union cannot continue to make concessions to accession countries such as turkey, which does not respect and does not recognise the sovereign rights of member countries. if we are really in a union of law, as the president has very rightly said, then it must defend the sovereign rights of member countries which are currently threatened by turkey by taking measures against turkey. the european citizens expect the president of the european commission to raise his voice and call on turkey either to respect the sovereign rights of cyprus and greece or to actually suffer the consequences as is the case with other countries. in closing... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, no matter how much mr juncker tries to make the situation in the union look good, the situation is continually worsening and the economic, political and institutional crisis is deepening every day. the deepening and institutionalization of the same neoliberal policies have led to people's unemployment and impoverishment, dismantled the welfare state, deregulated labor relations and intensified climate change. the result is that we now have a continuous widening of economic, social and regional disparities. these neoliberal policies are what are fertilising the ground for the rise of the far right and it is a fact that leads, unfortunately, the forces of the right to adopt a racist and xenophobic rhetoric and policy. the situation will become even more dangerous as we see the militarization and investment in wars, which is the main cause of the refugee flow, a fortress europe with permanent military structures and new fences on the internal and external borders. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices, but rather to the people of europe.
in writing. mr juncker spoke of a strong europe acting as a guarantor of peace, which is seen as a major achievement. however, what is needed in the present circumstances is a strong european union which will act as a real guarantor of the rule of law and the well-being of european citizens throughout its territory and ensure that the decisions of the european courts are implemented in practice. the eu's readiness to use its instruments of pressure impartially is required to achieve this. for example, (a) sanctions were imposed against russia for the invasion of crimea, but the collapse of the rule of law in turkey and the continued illegal occupation of cyprus' territory are sidelined, and furthermore, an upgrade of turkey-eu trade relations is proposed. (b) the european banking union remains without a pan-european deposit guarantee that would provide equal protection to european citizens. (c) finally, the opinion of the european citizens must be given greater weight if we are to have a future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social security system is not disrupted, and that the social security system is not disrupted. the union's policy of reducing public pension schemes and promoting private schemes, which will be borne by the workers themselves, is only intended to satisfy the interests of insurance and financial capital. the restructuring of pension systems is not the result of an ageing population. it is the result of the philosophy and the obsession of the ruling circles of the union with the unrestrained free market and neoliberalism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work, such as temporary flexible working, the lack of insurance and poorly paid contracts, which are a means of forcibly reducing the so-called labour costs. what is needed are policies that ensure first and foremost the decent work that is the basis of social security. there are many relevant conventions signed by the union and the member states of the international labour organisation on decent work. this will help to maintain the viability and strength of public pension systems.
madam president, we are discussing the strengthening of public social security systems, which must take account of their sustainability and must be based on and adapted to contributions and demographic changes, and unfortunately we are hearing arguments about how to de-structure them and how to rely, in effect, on private insurance. the commissioner, the question before us is not simply technocratic. it is about social groups, it is about people and therefore it is also political and that does indeed take courage. the role of the social partners is therefore crucial, otherwise, if they rely on the private sector alone, the privileged will continue to be privileged and the poorest will become poorer. an example from cyprus: in 2013, along with deposits, thousands of people who had money in insurance funds were also searched. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
mr president, i would like to say that today my country, cyprus, is celebrating the independence of cyprus. exactly 58 years ago, greek cypriots rose up and with struggles and sacrifices won their independence from british colonialism. on the one hand, we are celebrating today the great anniversary of the republic of cyprus, but on the other hand we are saddened that for 44 years a country which is a member of the european union has been under turkish occupation, has been under turkish occupation troops. the president of the republic of cyprus has today also conveyed to everyone - and in particular to the european union - that we must fight with all our strength for the liberation and reunification of cyprus, so that cyprus finally becomes a full member state of the european union without occupying troops, without unacceptable guarantees and without turkey's interventionist rights. i believe that you are particularly sensitive to this issue and i think that once again the european union and the european parliament can send the message to turkey that it is unthinkable and unacceptable to continue to keep a country of the european union, a full member, integrated into the european union, divided. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, i asked to speak on the same subject, so i will not repeat what my colleague has said. it is the day of the cypriot independence. and it is important to mention this here, because this independence is threatened by turkey, a country which is in the process of joining. he needs everyone's support. we all need to remember this, because above all the essence of solidarity and cooperation between the member states is shown when we defend the independence of the member states. (applause from the centre and the right)
mr president, i should like to refer to the visit of a delegation from parliament to palestine. we visited palestine and this settlement ten days ago. the situation is so critical that, in addition to mrs mogherini's statement, five foreign ministers from the major member states of the european union have sent a letter to israel asking that the settlement not be demolished. it's not just about the demolition of a settlement. the situation is very critical. this settlement is considered to be a "red line" for the palestinians. if it is demolished, it will expand settlement and risk splitting the west bank into north and south. so it is a serious political issue, apart from the fact that the school mentioned by the honourable member, which is located in the settlement and is now threatened with demolition, was built with european union money. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
madam president, we all believe in a strong and united europe, a europe that can meet the challenges. in order for this europe to succeed, i believe it must remain firm in its positions, principles and values, whether on the issue of brexit, the issue of immigration or the rule of law. the european union, whether with or without great britain, united can go forward and be strong and powerful again, as we have known it and as 500 million citizens expect it to be. but the european union cannot experiment and cannot compromise its principles and values. and here is the opportunity: the european union itself, the european commission, to clarify whether the strong europe we want defends and secures its external borders, defends and secures the sovereignty of the member countries. i say this because yesterday the turkish president again issued threats against greece and cyprus, threats against their energy resources, threats against their sovereign rights. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
madam president, the next session will return to the refugee crisis with a progress report. we hope that there will be a real assessment of the crisis appeal, without complacency because of the reduced number of arrivals in the european union. because the tragic reality, the drowning of people in the mediterranean, is not just numbers. the recent agreement of the leaders in salzburg on refugees is unfortunately moving in the wrong direction. the agreements with third countries will only increase border controls and reinforce the idea of a fortress europe. we insist that a strategy based on solidarity is needed. abolish dublin ii, establish a common legal asylum system and a permanent, binding and fair system for the relocation of refugees. the member states need practical support. for example, cyprus is constantly receiving boats with impoverished refugees, including children and pregnant women. the number of refugees may be small; however, in proportion to the population of cyprus, the needs are many and our country needs support to respond adequately to the reception of refugees.
madam president, brexit is a negative development, but we can draw a very positive lesson from it. the main cause of the frustration of european citizens is the gap between the values of the european union, which we all know and understand, and the policies we often follow. and if there is one thing - and we are addressing this to the commission - that will give meaning to freedom, security, justice and solidarity, so that european citizens, in view of the european elections, will understand the role we are playing, it is more democracy. i want to make it clear: there can be no democracy and freedom as long as turkey is part of the european union. there is no freedom and security until we defend the european union and its borders, from small to large states. the european citizens must be at the centre of the european union!
mr president, we are talking about the rights of workers in multinational companies all over the world. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. apple, my dear colleagues, has 1.6 million employees and pays 2.6 percent of its revenue for it. the workers are paid 1.5 euros an hour. their monthly salary is equivalent to half the value of an iphone: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they work 60 hours a week, six days in a row and more than ten hours a day. the $14 billion in net revenue, according to 2010 data -- i'm guessing a lot more today -- that apple makes in just one quarter is equivalent to the 11-year salary of 300,000 employees. (the president cut off the speaker)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr. president, the us decision to cut off funding to unrwa is added to a series of incendiary actions by the trump administration culminating in the recognition of jerusalem as the capital of the state of israel. the more profound aim is to derail the two-state solution and to cancel the right of palestinian refugees to return to an independent state of their own. schools, hospitals, refugee settlements and health care programmes that provide relief to 5 million refugees are now threatened with collapse unless the necessary funding for unrwa is found immediately, while in blockaded gaza 80% of the population is completely dependent on unrwa support. we call on the european union and the member states to take the initiative and mobilise additional funding for unrwa so that it can continue its work unhindered. the union must also put pressure on israel to end its settlement policy and the inhumane blockade of gaza. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, commissioner, i think that the clarification of the situation by the members of the european parliament was not necessary for your ears, because i am sure that, even if you add up all the information you have got from here, the tragic information you have is unfortunately more. but i think there is something that needs to be done and has been said many times by colleagues: can we clearly tell member states to stop sending arms to saudi arabia? can we say clearly to member states that this thing has to stop? if we cannot do that, then i feel a futility in repeating and redirecting all the evils that are happening in yemen. 11 million children are hungry... what else can one say? schools are being bombed, weddings are being bombed, thousands of refugees are being bombed, life has been turned into hell. the situation is shocking, in the words of a united nations representative. so if you want to do something, it is to speak out clearly to the member states that are contributing to this evil.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs miriam dalli, on the report before us, which sets ambitious targets for reducing co2 emissions from new vehicles. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environmentally harmful effects of certain substances and preparations is a very good one. the proposal to use technology and measure car emissions in real road conditions to avoid future car industry scandals such as the 'dieselgate' scandal is also particularly positive. it is equally important that appropriate measures be taken in good time to deal with the employment implications. we therefore support the proposal to promote targeted programmes to re-train and upskill workers so that quality and decent jobs are maintained.
mr president, neo-fascism is not just the attitude of modern movements similar to mussolini's party. this obsession causes functional blindness to the everyday fascism we experience as citizens in states that are mostly or ostensibly democratic. in a european union of principles and values, in societies fighting totalitarianism, neo-fascism also finds expression in hate speech, which is increasingly and dangerously becoming systematic violence against citizens on a daily basis. but it also expresses itself in immoral and false news and anonymous attacks on politicians through the media and the internet with the aim of the moral annihilation of honest politicians. fascism is the silencing of every voice of opposition. this fascism is dangerous and insidious and is aimed at the weak, the foreigners, the immigrants, the homosexuals, the poor, the non-religious; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the legal framework is properly applied. the european union is a responsibility, and those of us who understand that responsibility are fighting fascism.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, mr prime minister, i too would like to welcome you on behalf of the group of the european united left/nordic green left. we are talking again about the future of europe, but unfortunately the assessment remains the same. the situation in the union is continuing to deteriorate and the economic, political and institutional crisis is deepening every day. the democratic deficit in the union is also growing dramatically and you need not gloss over this situation. the neoliberal austerity policies that have been implemented, although they have failed, continue to be promoted and institutionalized, leading to unemployment and impoverishment of the people. this is the reality today for estonia, which, despite its successes in the digital economy, has alarmingly high unemployment and poverty rates. the social state is disintegrating, labour relations are being deregulated and economic, social and regional disparities in the union are widening. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the recent decision of the leaders in salzburg unfortunately foreshadows that the same repressive measures, increased controls at the external but unfortunately also at the internal borders and the strengthening of the logic of a fortress europe will continue. it is these neoliberal policies that are paving the way for the rise of the far right and the adoption of racist and xenophobic rhetoric and policies by several member state governments. if the union continues to pursue the same policies, the far-right forces will become even more powerful and pose very great dangers to the peoples of europe. the rise of the far right is attempting to turn the union back to obscurantism and is threatening the fundamental freedoms, rights and achievements of the people, and i regret to say that it is an oxymoron today with the climate of the rise of fascism and the far right to talk about the soviet union. the violent attacks which have even occurred against meps in bari, italy, chemnitz, germany and other countries show that the far right is becoming more and more fragmented and that the immediate cooperation and alliance of progressive forces is needed to stop it. it is imperative that we should unite the wider democratic and progressive forces and fight together against the far right, fascism, racism and xenophobia. the situation is made even more dangerous by the union's new turn towards militarisation, investment in defence with the new european fund and the strengthening of the military industry, in coordination with nato's aggressiveness. the european union's turn to war will be a disaster for the future of the union. the danger for europe, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, is not refugees and migrants; it is the wars and imperialist interventions that the european union and its member states are actively supporting; it is the growing economic and social inequalities; it is racism and xenophobia. the european union must be able to take action to combat poverty and social exclusion, and to ensure that the people of europe are not left behind. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one. yes, we need to upgrade the digital economy, but we also need to create decent, sustainable, quality jobs. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe in the past, and it is a great help to the people of europe today.
mr prime minister, welcome to the house. we are discussing the future of the european union and i shall concentrate on that. the main reason for the political and substantive disengagement of european citizens is the fact that there is a gap between the values we declare to be our own and the policies we pursue. this is a matter for the commission itself. so can the european citizen be at the centre of decision-making by introducing direct democratic elections of commissioners by the people of europe in each member state? i'd like to hear your position. secondly - and i am also addressing the commission - we voted yesterday to cut off funds to turkey and a few months ago we found that the rule of law does not exist in that country. there is no rule of law and no human rights, but were there democratic elections, commissioner? please answer us.
mr president, i had the good fortune to go to the islands of the eastern aegean a short while ago on a mission of the european parliament, where i saw the tragic nature of the situation, the inability of the states to solve the problem and the inadequate assistance from the european union. today we are discussing the same issue again, but i think we have done little to deal with it. we're just giving huge funds to turkey. solidarity between the member states of the european union has not been shown towards the southern states which bear the brunt of the burden. i would like to mention the case of the republic of cyprus, which i know well, but whose problem seems to be little known in the rest of europe. cyprus is a small and remote part of the european union, semi-occupied, with thousands of displaced cypriots living in refugee settlements. it is outside the schengen treaty. this may have protected it for a while, since turkey's priority was to cause problems in greece. turkey has not signed the readmission agreement with the republic of cyprus, as it does not recognise it, and there has been no reaction from the european union. that is why i do not believe that all those who come to cyprus are genuine refugees. they have no reason to come. however, in the last two years, almost daily, boats with 'refugees' have arrived in the northwestern part of cyprus, the free zone, with the help of smugglers, or they arrive regularly through the occupied ports and airports and are channeled through the pierced and unguarded ceasefire line to the free zones. an unknown number of refugees drowned on the occupied coast, but we have no precise information about them. i would remind you of the direct threats of the dictator erdogan, who every now and then declares that he will make the muslim population of cyprus equal to the christian population. this is a huge danger for the cypriot people. cyprus cannot be converted into a new moria, either because of its size or because of its circumstances, nor can it be islamized. the commission is therefore proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and that the council should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. the cypriots do not have to prove that they are not racist or xenophobic. we are a peaceful people who respect and help the stranger, the fugitive, the hunted. the european union must therefore ensure that these people are safely transferred to another place.
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to play its full part in the development of the union. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. that is why we are supporting funds for youth employment, for innovation, horizon 2020, erasmus, for small and mediumsized enterprises, a europe that will respond to challenges, a europe with strong defence and security so that it can effectively defend the sovereignty of the member countries. as the council has rightly said, we must respect the taxpayers' money because it is they who are reinforcing the budget. and i ask: how much respect do we have for the money of the european taxpayers when the european union funds countries that violate the principles and values of the european union, that challenge european union member countries, that own part of european union member countries, like turkey? how can we talk about a credible, strong europe when we are applying double standards to sanctions, when we are continuing to show tolerance in this country? i propose a freeze of funds for turkey until it respects international and european law.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on the matter. and if we all mean it, we should support it when it is before us and not just when we are speaking publicly in the european parliament. but i'll move on to another subject. it is very strange to me that the presidency of the european union has a very correct position: that turkey should not even be in accession because it does not even meet the political criteria of copenhagen. secondly, turkey has commitments towards the european union, including the recognition of the republic of cyprus. we all talk about our common home. our common home - and our principles and values - that we're talking about, has a room that it illegally occupies ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on the report of the committee on employment and social affairs, which is preparing its own separate report on employment and social policies in the euro area for the first time. the report contains important information which the commission should take seriously. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. however, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to express my disappointment that certain political forces in this european parliament are putting the markets above the european citizen, and i cannot understand their attitude. i experienced it in another report on eurozone policies. they did not insist on setting macroeconomic conditions for access to cohesion funds and many other things which do not help the european project.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. however, unfortunately, in a part of the european union, in the occupied northern part of cyprus, where i come from and became a refugee after the turkish invasion in 1974, in that northern part a treasure of our european culture is being destroyed even today. hundreds of churches have been looted, thousands of byzantine icons have been stolen. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the cambridge analytica scandal at facebook is a political scandal and has demonstrated the dangers that exist when power is concentrated in the hands of a few speculators who have the means to file and manipulate millions of people. this is a massive breach of privacy that has been exposed, it's a threat to democracy and it's just the tip of the iceberg. the personal data of tens of millions of americans and 2.7 million europeans has been used, and a few days ago, facebook reported that hackers had gained access to nearly 50 million accounts. facebook's own representatives, during the european parliament hearings, admitted that they had an agreement with an application developer, who gave personal data to third parties. however, they did not answer what steps they are now taking to fully comply with the new european regulation on the protection of personal data. we have a responsibility, also in view of the european elections, to ensure that european legislation on personal data is applied by all social media platforms, to have control through new legislation and simplification of procedures so that users can manage their personal data and regulate who will have access to it. those who have not been exploited should be compensated by facebook, as the four consumer organisations in belgium, italy, spain and portugal rightly claim in their lawsuits.
madam president, i too want to express my deep disappointment about brexit, especially in relation to cyprus. a large proportion of the cypriot european citizens living in british bases in cyprus remain uncertain about their future, and this has far-reaching economic implications but also far more about planning their daily lives. but i think that the present phase gives us the opportunity to discuss both the rule of law and human rights, which are always topical, and i regret to say that while we have recently decided that turkey has failed in the areas of the rule of law, democracy, freedom of the press, at the same time, some people here - and i refer to the european council and the european commission - continue to regard the erdoğan regime as a democracy. let's finally decide is it a democracy or is it a dictatorship? there's no in-between!
madam president, i firmly believe that the european union will find its way through the problems and difficulties and certainly one important issue is brexit, which concerns us all, particularly those of us from our small home country of cyprus, where we really feel that there should be such an agreement that the rights of european citizens are registered so that no further problems are created. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are proud to be part of the great european family. we are firmly defending this european edifice because we want and demand a europe that is strong. a europe that can meet the challenges. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today i speak as one of the 500 million citizens of europe. the european council has already made a number of recommendations on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels, and the european council in strasbourg has also made a number of recommendations on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in strasbourg. a europe which really meets the challenges of the new generation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we do not want this europe. we want a europe which is truly close to the people, close to every european citizen. a strong europe with a single defence policy, with a single defence and security. a europe which will not be a europe of two measures and two stations and, when it imposes sanctions on its member states or on third countries, must also impose sanctions on countries which violate human rights, which are members of the european union, such as cyprus. it is none other than turkey, which is in the european union's safety net and tolerance. i am proud of the european union, i said, but neither i nor my compatriots feel particularly proud when the turkish ship 'barbarossa' and turkish ships are in the cypriot eez at this very moment, and no one is harassing them.
the energy issue we are discussing today, madam president, is of particular importance because it concerns all the member states, but also all the european citizens, the economy and society. my own country, cyprus, is paying a heavy price because of climate change. there is prolonged unemployment and water shortages, with the result that the agricultural costs are really unbearable, but also the costs for each household and for each cypriot citizen. i think that is the case for every european citizen. the european union must react. to respond by taking action for those suffering the consequences of climate change. the european union can react and make innovative and original investments, particularly in our islands, which are suffering from this important problem. to set up desalination plants or, at the same time, large photovoltaic parks in order to reduce the cost of electricity, that is, the cost of energy, which is particularly important for the survival of these countries and in particular for the primary production sector. however, it is also important for the secondary sector, since photovoltaics will be able to reduce energy there too. the european union can therefore invest in an autonomous energy system for every home, every business and every agricultural production, which will also contribute to renewable energy sources. we also support the energy union. we support it and we support it because we believe that cyprus and its energy reserves will be within the energy union and the european union must be able to support, support and safeguard cyprus' energy reserves. these reserves are important because, as a member state of the european union, they form part of the european energy reserves.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs and all the members of the european parliament who contributed to this report, which confirms once again the support of this parliament for the education sector. we will, of course, take into account a number of recommendations put forward in this report. the right to quality education is a fundamental right for all. it constitutes an essential condition for the enjoyment of human rights and for the achievement of all the united nations sustainable development goals. moreover, by investing in education, we fight poverty. basic reading skills could take at least 170 million people out of global poverty. the commission agrees that education should remain at the core of our development cooperation, focusing on those most in need. the european consensus on development highlights the importance of education for promoting responsible citizenship, developing sustainable societies and boosting youth employment. your report constitutes an opportunity to recall these objectives. it gives additional input and impetus to our common endeavour. as recently stated by the world bank, the investments needed in human capital have become more important as the nature of work has evolved. the content of education programmes and the skills acquired by students have to be relevant to the needs of the current and future labour market. in this context, the european union will continue to support scholarships and exchange programmes between tertiary education institutions and build capacities and knowledge within universities through actions such as erasmus+. as recently announced in our new africa—europe alliance for sustainable investment and jobs, by 2020 the european union will have supported 35 000 african students and academics through the erasmus programme. by 2027, these figures should reach over 105 000. in your report, you also underline the importance of gender equality and the inclusion of vulnerable children and of course, the commission shares your view. these two elements must remain essential components of quality education, contributing to fulfilling the 2030 agenda by leaving no one behind. the commission also welcomes your emphasis on education in times of emergencies and crisis. ensuring continuing education for children and young people living in crisis situations is a pressing issue, particularly for girls. already now, more than 60% of the european union’s bilateral funding for education goes to countries affected by conflict and fragility. furthermore, our humanitarian budget for education in emergencies has gone up from 1% in 2015 to 8% this year and 10% in 2019. but of course we need further and more coordinated efforts, also with our international partners. for this reason, the commission adopted its first ever policy framework on education in emergencies and crises in may 2018, a new major dimension of our actions. the commission also welcomes the call in the report to involve all stakeholders in the dialogue at international and local level. multilateral work is as important as bilateral country work. currently the european union supports 45 developing partner countries with bilateral education funding worth around eur 3.4 billion. the european union is also a major contributor to the global partnership for education, which brings together all relevant actors to achieve the objective of the united nations sustainable development goal to ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all. overall, the targets set out in your report are ambitious, but consistent with the international agenda and with the commission approach. we very much look forward to continuing in the years to come our cooperation with parliament in keeping quality and inclusive education high on the european union’s development cooperation agenda.
madam president, commissioner, yesterday the albanian government declared me persona non grata for defending the human rights of the greek minority in northern epirus, which are being violated by the albanian regime. the minority lives in a climate of terror and silent ethnic cleansing. the demographic composition of the population in purely greek areas is changing dramatically with the transfer of settlers, the property rights of greeks are being trampled by the state through intimidation and arbitrary and illegal acts, while their educational rights and the use of the greek language are systematically persecuted. a short time ago, the albanians murdered aristotle goma because he spoke greek. a few days ago, konstantinos katsyfas because he raised the greek flag. i regret that the european parliament has not wanted to discuss the violation of the human rights of the minority. i think that he should immediately send an ad hoc committee to look for the truth about what is happening in the greek community, without the presence of the regime's informants who are terrorizing the citizens.
madam president, i believe - and we all must realize this - that the multiannual financial framework is a major issue for the european union and for european citizens, which in fact determines the future and the prospects of the european union for the years to come. we are clear about what we want and what we are seeking for europe. it is clear to us that we need and demand a stronger, more social, more humane and more democratic european union. a european union based on young people and looking to the future. a european union which respects and obliges the member states, as well as the candidate countries, to respect the rule of law and human rights. how do we do that? by strengthening our youth policies, by strengthening erasmus+, by giving our young people jobs, by giving them prospects, by giving them a future, by giving them dynamism. by giving small and mediumsized businesses a chance, by strengthening our defence and security and by strengthening policies for equality between men and women. it is inconceivable and unacceptable that the european union should not yet be reinforcing these policies and that there should be inequality between men and women. i think it is particularly important, however, because it has been said by the commissioner and the european council that the rule of law and human rights do not need to be theoretical. when we say that europe is the european union of the rule of law, we mean it. when there are candidate countries like turkey which do not respect human rights, which do not respect the rule of law, which invade european union member states like cyprus, which challenge and violate sovereign rights and the eez, we must take measures and freeze the funds of the multiannual financial framework for turkey.
the multiannual financial framework, mr president, is about the future of the european union, and we are almost all in agreement on this. the future of the european union is its citizens, and especially its young people. but when, ladies and gentlemen, cuts are made in social benefits and policies and cuts in programmes for young people, we are not convinced that we are really aiming at the convergence of prosperity within the european union for all citizens. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the fight against terrorism.
mr president, european arms are going to terrorist countries like saudi arabia and turkey. but i will give you a specific example, commissioner, which concerns you. germany exports weapons and weapon systems to turkey. german tanks were used in the invasion and ongoing occupation of afrin - we saw it with our own eyes - and, at the same time, german submarines are ending up in turkey. the european union is not only a member of the european union but also a member of the european union. at the same time, the republic of cyprus, in cooperation with the countries of the wider eastern mediterranean and with countries which are members of the european union, is endeavouring to develop an energy policy to serve the european union. how can we accept arms exports to turkey, a terrorist country, and at the same time support the energy planning of the republic of cyprus? we have to decide what we want.
mr president, the european parliament is actually discussing the danger of nuclear annihilation of human civilization, and i see colleagues here, some of whom support the russian position and others the us position. the great events, the great disasters and the great dangers to humanity are coming quietly, and it is a pity that they are not heard even by the representatives of the european union. in the event of a planetary catastrophe, no one will ever have the chance to say that i was right and i predicted it and i said it was this or that's fault. the european union - the european parliament - must send a message to everyone about global disarmament in terms of nuclear weapons, not to mention other weapons. mr trump's withdrawal from the agreement and any further behaviour by russia, which is also condemnable, should give us the impetus to send the message together as the european union that we must destroy all the nuclear weapons at our disposal, which can wipe out the planet a thousand times over.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, state secretary. in the coming months, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia will have to make important decisions concerning the finalisation of the process of constitutional changes on the one hand and the continuation of the implementation of key reforms on the other. this will require focus and determination to fundamentally improve the lives of citizens. i count on all political forces to put the interests of the country first and support the common strategic goal of euro-atlantic integration. in that respect i think it's time that everyone starts to accept the outcome of the referendum. just last sunday we had several referenda in switzerland, usually considered one of the role models of mature democracy, and there the turnout rate is usually below 50% but nobody criticises or challenges the democratic result and the consequences. in that respect i can only urge everybody to start to respect the people's vote and the people's thinking by participating in a meaningful way in such a referendum. the commission, in any case, will support and continue to support the reform efforts in every way we can in order to prepare the country to open accession negotiations. so i count on the support of this house to remain engaged and to send common messages of encouragement to the country and in particular to all your sister parties, but even more importantly, to all the citizens of the country. more than ever, the union needs to continue to show its unity and fight for our fundamental values and principles.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me thank once again parliament’s rapporteur on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, mr vajgl, for his excellent work. the eu attaches great importance to moving forward with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, and we hope to see continued progress. reforms are crucial and will require the political leaders to live up to their responsibilities. the eu remains fully engaged and stands ready to support the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in its efforts.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, dear commissioner, dear rapporteur, let me begin by recalling the council conclusions of june 2018, in which the council decided to respond positively to the progress made by albania and set out the path towards opening accession negotiations in june 2019. we welcome the commission’s necessary preparatory work. we concur with your view that albania has made steady progress in addressing the five key priorities. these are positive signals which show that albania is on the right path, and we strongly encourage it to continue its efforts. moreover, albania is implementing a comprehensive justice reform, as the rapporteur already mentioned; the re-evaluation process for judges and prosecutors – the so-called vetting – has started to deliver under the oversight of the international monitoring operation. we encourage albania to build on the progress made and to pursue the justice reform in order to achieve increased independence, accountability and professionalism of the judicial system. establishment of the independent judicial structures, as provided for by the constitutional reform, should be finalised. albania has worked towards the establishment of a solid track record in the fight against corruption and organised crime. however, it is important that the government delivers tangible and sustainable results, including against the cultivation and trafficking of drugs. dismantling organised groups remains an important challenge. we commend albania for its close cooperation with external law enforcement agencies. we welcome its participation in international police operations and joint investigations, in particular with eu member states, and urge it to be even more proactive in international police cooperation. on elections, as set out in your report, we expect albania to address the outstanding osce/odihr recommendations, amend its electoral code and introduce measures for further enhancing the independence, impartiality, professionalism and capacity of election administration. we emphasise the need for legislative and policy measures to reinforce the protection of human rights and anti-discrimination policies, including the equal treatment of all minorities and access to rights for persons belonging to them throughout the country. albania has made efforts to put in place effective measures to counter the high flow of manifestly unfounded asylum applications lodged to albanian citizens. these measures need to be further pursued with the countries most affected until sustained results are achieved. we welcome albania’s constructive engagement in regional cooperation and good-neighbourly relations, which remain an essential element of the enlargement process. i equally want to commend albania for its full alignment with the eu’s common foreign and security policy. today in our discussion we are focusing on albaniaʼs progress in 2017, on which we have a very similar opinion. however, and more generally, i would like to stress the importance of tangible and sustainable results focusing in particular on the rule of law: this will take albania closer to the opening of accession talks.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would also like to congratulate the albanians on their national day, at least as long as we are still on the same day. i would also like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their work leading up to this resolution. clearly, significant coordination efforts resulted in a document which, in my view, is a very balanced one. the resolution captures the progress that albania has made in the past years and it highlights well the challenges that lie ahead in order to move the country closer to the union. starting with the progress, albania continues to advance in many crucial areas. the vetting of judges and prosecutors has proven to be a thorough and fair process and continues to yield concrete and tangible results. the ongoing judicial reform is a major demand from albanian citizens and its successful implementation will foster public trust in state institutions, enhance the credibility and effectiveness of the justice system, and contribute to the embedding of the rule of law throughout the country. we cannot compromise on quality in this very important process and we are monitoring it thoroughly. as regards current challenges, constructive political dialogue and cooperation across parties is crucial for further advancing in delicate areas such as the restructuring of the judiciary, as well as the electoral reform process. cross—party consensus is necessary to guarantee that outstanding osce/odhir recommendations are met. this includes, in particular, the transparency of party financing, as well as the independence and professionalism of the electoral administration. strengthening the administrative capacity of institutions is essential, not only for the successful implementation of reforms, but also for the effective preparation of eu accession negotiations. that is why we continue to encourage albania to pursue public administration reform by adhering to the highest standards. progress in the fight against organised crime and corruption also continues to be necessary for albania to further advance on its path towards eu accession. further achievements are expected towards establishing a solid direct record of proactive investigations, prosecutions and convictions in the fight against organised crime and corruption at all levels. good neighbourly relations and regional stability are essential elements of the stabilisation and association process. albania is an important actor in promoting regional cooperation. we appreciate in this regard the full convergence of foreign and security policy between albania and the european union, as already highlighted by previous speakers. the commission maintains its strong commitment to support albania’s efforts to advance further on its path towards european integration. i look forward to continuing the fruitful cooperation with the european parliament in all of these matters in the months ahead.
on behalf of the ecr group. madam president, as the shadow rapporteur for the report i did not object, to help the work of the rapporteur whom i deeply appreciate. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. it is clear that the corrupt government of albania is continuing its criminal action against the greek minority. the greeks live in fear, deprived of all human rights, subject to the barbaric behaviour of the albanian authorities and their property being trampled on by the state itself, while children's education and the use of the greek language are prevented. colonization, islamization, demographic alteration and ethnic cleansing are what greeks in the northern hemisphere experience on a daily basis. the european union has a duty to ensure that the albanian people are not excluded from the european union, and that the albanian people are not excluded from the european union.
madam president, one way of assessing the degree of respect for the rule of law and human rights in practice is the management of minorities. in albania, the largest ethnic minority recognized by albania itself is the greek minority, which is subject to ethnic cleansing, which is unfortunately not mentioned in the report. the european union must encourage albania towards democracy and we must also encourage it to break free from the turkish influence of erdogan. but after suffering the anti-european policy of turkey - which some here even now call a 'strategic partner' - we hope that we have learned our lesson against corrupt governments and corrupt rulers. we must address them with effective tools and demand that their criteria and obligations be met; this is the essence of the turkish passion.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a good example of the need to ensure that the directive is applied in a uniform manner and that the directive is applied in a uniform manner. i believe that the european union should have been the pioneer and the protagonist, and should have fully and completely applied the principle of non-discrimination between men and women. gender equality in the european union was, is and remains a fundamental, unshakable and inviolable principle which everyone, and in particular the european commission, must implement. it is not just words and proclamations. the declarations are here and today the opportunity is open for the european commissioner and the european commission to commit themselves to full and complete implementation of gender equality and to impose sanctions on those member states which do not apply the principle of gender equality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the principle of equal treatment for men and women is fully and completely applied.
madam president, commissioner, i convey to the european parliament the cry of anguish and despair of the greeks of northern epirus, from whom the brutal, corrupt, fascist albanian regime deprives all human rights. he terrorizes them, arrests them, interrogates them harshly and jails them. he's deporting journalists and other citizens. it prevents them from speaking the greek language and from carrying out their religious duties as christians. the teaching of the greek language is forbidden in schools and the property of the greeks is arbitrarily and illegally seized by the government and given to settlers, who are transported en masse to alter the demographic composition of the population and force the greeks to leave their homeland. today humanity celebrates world human rights day, yet few know what is happening in the northern hemisphere. i call on the european parliament to expedite the dispatch of an ad hoc committee to investigate the inhumane conditions in which thousands of greeks are living in their homeland.
madam president, dear friend president of the european commission, we come from a small country, cyprus, but we are profoundly european. we want a strong european union. a strong european union means that our own countries are becoming stronger, and if there were no european union, we europeans would all have to discover it. the european union is a great success, and we must not forget that it is a great success. that is why we are fighting and striving for a strong european union. but a strong european union, madam president, cannot exist without strong defence and security. security is tight. the sense of security of all european citizens must be strengthened. it is only in this way that all the eurosceptic approaches that seek to undermine the european union and the european character are dismantled and entertained, and indeed, believe me, in my own country too, the feeling of security is what prevails; that the european union can protect my country from the daily threats of turkey; that the european union can protect every european citizen.
madam president, ten years ago - and i am addressing the council - on a day like this, in 2008, the decision was taken on a common position of the member states to formulate eight criteria for the export of arms by member states of the european union. we have recently voted overwhelmingly in the european parliament on a report on the same subject, all in the context of the common foreign and security policy. we have decided that member states recognize the special responsibility of the states exporting military equipment and that exports are not allowed when there is a risk that the recipient will use it aggressively, particularly against other member states. recently, a few days ago, it was revealed that forty-five state-of-the-art german leopard tanks were transported to the occupied northern part of the republic of cyprus. is this the common foreign and security policy?
madam president, when the commission spokesman describes progress as minimal, it is probably zero. i would like to say that the commission has been very careful in its work on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. why should the european deposit system have already been promoted? firstly, because this was the initial consensus in the architecture of the euro area, and if we mean what we agree, we implement it. secondly, because it promotes fair competition between european banks and thirdly because it offers the same european protection to all european depositors. therefore, risk reduction at the same time as risk sharing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, unfortunately we have to remember the role played by european countries in the breakdown of states where there was relative stability and then we were driven into chaos. the fight against terrorism requires holistic approaches: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. the perpetrators of terrorist attacks in the european union were mainly citizens of the european union who western societies had failed to integrate. marginalization and discrimination create fertile ground for the unchecked cultivation of religious fanaticism by imams and preachers of hatred. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. surely civilian life is not the same as it was in the past. it is important that the public should feel safe, because it is the public that is suffering the consequences of terrorism. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. it is wrong to have a dilemma between 'more security' and 'more freedoms'. they both go together.
madam president, i think that everything has been said about the fight against terrorism in the european union. but let me add one thought that i have not heard, since i have been here all the time. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the war that saudi arabia is waging against yemen with seventy thousand dead, with seventy thousand children who have died of hunger, with a child dying of hunger every ten minutes is not it breeding terrorism inside yemen? and will it be unjustified to say that at some point it will come to europe, when there are indeed countries in the european union which are selling arms to saudi arabia? as for prevention -- and i'll close with this -- i agree that there needs to be a balance between the defense of human rights, privacy, with our obligation to share information, yes. but i think we should look around. how do they stop the breeding ground of terrorism coming into the european union?
madam president, i think that cooperation between states is always beneficial for their citizens. cooperation brings people and citizens closer together. i think that in any particular agreement we must look at things from a more than a financial point of view. i want citizens to be involved in social work, to feel that they are part of an economic development, not to be distracted and leave the matter solely to the companies. this thing is not conducive to civic socialization. we must at the same time defend through this agreement the individual rights of the japanese, who will continue to work under the same conditions as today, the environmental rights. i am convinced that the european union must be able to take action to help the people of europe, and that the european union must be able to take action to help the people of europe.
mr president, first of all i should like to congratulate the court of human rights on its decision, and the commissioner, mrs piri and all my colleagues on the resolution which will probably be adopted tomorrow. the european union and turkey will meet next week in ankara. we will also be reporting on the decision of the european court of justice and the decision which the european parliament will take tomorrow on the resolution calling on turkey to release this man who has done nothing but defend his people, the rights of his people. but i think there's a question: what else does the commission need to do to be effective? it is clear that words do not ring in mr erdogan's ears. they go in one way, they come out the other. we must see what measures can be taken, otherwise we will be left with decisions.
mr president, today we must record that the debate and adoption of the 2019 budget is a great success for the european parliament, the european commission, the european union and the european council, because this budget largely meets the expectations of european citizens. we must stop constantly leveling and reducing the work of the european union to zero and this budget is focused on the future, because the future is young people are young people and this budget supports and supports and strengthens all those programmes which are for our young people and i hope that the new european student card will be implemented, which will add another value and importance and help to our student world. at the same time, this budget focuses on defence and security, which is a powerful tool for making the european union a strong power. i think it is even more important that this budget sends a strong message that countries which violate the principles and values of the european union, such as turkey, cannot be financed by the european union and by the money of taxpayers, and today's cuts of 147 million are a bold and courageous step. i would like to congratulate the commissioner and my colleagues and all those who have contributed to this cut, which sends the message that next year, if turkey continues with these provocations, it will pay a heavy price.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we shall be voting on the european defence fund, to which the european union is preparing to allocate 13 billion euros to invest in the defence industry. at the same time, the union declares itself incapable of supporting the peoples who are impoverished and impoverished by unemployment and austerity measures. children are dying of hunger, the homeless are freezing to death, one in four citizens is suffering from energy poverty and, instead of giving financial support to people in need, the european parliament, the only elected european institution, is proposing to give a lump sum to the european defence fund, a fund which violates eu law and the eu treaty, which states that expenditure relating to operations with military or defence implications should not be charged to the union budget. the group of the european united left is clearly opposed to this dangerous project of militarizing the union, which has nothing to do with the security of its citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, may i also express my condolences to the families of the victims, our sympathy to the city of strasbourg and to the french people. first of all, i would like to thank my colleague, mr dan nica, for the excellent cooperation we have had and for his contribution to the production of a very good text. we welcome the proposal as it stands, as it improves on the commission proposal and reinforces the reference to the need to support programmes that respond to the needs of society, to give impetus to research on tackling global social challenges, combating climate change and implementing development objectives. the increase in the proposed budget for smes, to enable them to exploit the results of research and innovation, is particularly positive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the research and development programmes are implemented in a way that is compatible with the objectives of the community. in conclusion, i would like to welcome the reference in the text to the safeguarding of human rights in relation to the participation of third countries in the programme. however, we believe that it should be clearly stated that entities and/or companies are excluded because of serious human rights violations.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, commissioners, your excellency, you are the president of a small island and remote state of the european union, and you are in charge of the only weapon it has: its identity, the title of the republic of cyprus. i will put my main question at the outset, which is this: what future can the european union have if it sacrifices a member state, letting it be turned into a turkish protectorate for the benefit of economic interests and trade with a dictatorial regime? the turkish government has repeatedly threatened the republic of cyprus and is transferring heavy weapons to the occupied areas. mr. president, you have touched on all the major issues of concern to our country. i won't go into that. i shall confine myself to the cyprus problem, because your efforts to resolve the cyprus problem have collapsed despite the goodwill you have shown, because of the aggressive and intransigent attitude of turkey, whose aim remains the complete control of the land and sea area of the republic of cyprus, while the solution sought so far has proved impossible and unworkable. since 2004 the republic of cyprus has been a member state of the european union, and the following questions arise: why has the republic of cyprus not demanded from the european union the application of the provisions of the treaties, the european acquis, the principles and values of the european union, the charter of human rights, the protocol of accession, the additional protocol, the counter-demonstration of 21 september 2005, the resolution on the sandbox (the written declaration) and many other legal declarations that would have strengthened the republic of cyprus and made the solution viable, just and functional? why has the republic of cyprus never reacted when turkey has unlawfully refused to sign the treaties it signed with the 27 member states? why did it not react when mr cavusoglu presented a document to the commission describing cyprus as 'dead'? why did you accept the signing and updating of the european union-turkey customs union? why did you accept the readmission agreement? why did you accept the agreement on refugees and many other treaties signed with the 27 member states but not with the republic of cyprus? all these agreements are being implemented to the detriment of the status of the cypriot state and peace, since turkey is not accepting any pressure to resolve the cyprus problem. on the other hand, why does the european union agree to talk to and give billions to a dictatorial state, which is a candidate for membership of the european union, while it occupies part of european territory and does not recognise the republic of cyprus? why does it apply treaties which are not signed with a member state and does not suspend accession negotiations? why is it imposing sanctions on russia for the annexation of crimea and leaving turkey untouched, when it has a military member state? the european union must demand that turkey recognize the republic of cyprus and respect the rights of our state. the european union cannot recognize the results of the indiscriminate armed violence of 1974 and accept the dissolution of the republic of cyprus. the solution must be based on the principles and values of the european union and on the full implementation and full respect of the four fundamental freedoms, with the democratic principles of the european union as a guarantor. the european union cannot allow cyprus to become a turkish protectorate. i am grateful to the president-in-office for his reply and welcome to the european parliament. i'm very sorry that not all the colleagues are here and they would be if we didn't have the fake facts.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: mr president, allow me, on behalf of the left group, to express our shock at the victims of yesterday's attack, our condolences to the families of the victims and our sympathy and solidarity with the city of strasbourg and the entire french people. mr president of the republic of cyprus, i welcome you to the european parliament on behalf of the european united left/northern green left, conveying to you first of all the universal, unwavering and unwavering support of our group for the struggle of cyprus against occupation and division, for a solution to the cyprus problem on the basis of un resolutions, international and european law, for the reunification of cyprus on the basis of the solution of a bi-regional confederation, for a cyprus without occupying troops and foreign guards, a common homeland for greek cypriots and turkish cypriots. the european union has a responsibility, mr vice-president of the european commission, to insist firmly on the implementation of ankara's obligations, including those of cyprus, rather than discussing the upgrading of the customs union with turkey today. mr president, if we are talking today with anxiety and fear about the future of europe, it is because something has gone wrong with the past and present of the union, with the course it has taken, with the policies that prevail, because in previous years the agonies of the peoples and the demands of the workers have not been heard. it is only two years ago in this very room that president juncker was forced to admit that the european union is losing its social character, that it is in danger of becoming the wild west of social dumping. but he didn't admit what policies led to it. the hard truth is that the recipe of neoliberalism has been followed, with the result that european societies are reaping unemployment, poverty, regional and social inequalities, while at the same time these are the policies that are paving the way for racism, xenophobia and fascism. those who do not recognize the cause will obviously continue on the same prescriptions and the same path. cyprus is unfortunately no exception. it is a typical example, because memoranda expire but they do not really go away. their dramatic consequences have not only remained in the society and labour relations of a number of member states but have now become pan-european laws within the framework of economic governance. the remarkable thing is that your government, mr president, not only implements these policies but is proving to be more neoliberal than the neoliberals. what is the result? the growth you project is only for the benefit of the few. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new financial regulation, which will be published in the official journal of the european union. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what europe needs today is social justice and social solidarity. it needs an economy that works for the many, the ones who produce wealth, not for the banks and the multinationals. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the development of the internal market, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. to safeguard the public nature of each country's strategic sectors and services. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european union needs a bold policy to tackle climate change outside the logic of the market and more ambitious than the paris agreement. when the citizens of the union hear that 38.5 billion euros will be given to the defence fund, they naturally ask themselves how it is that there is always money for the war industries but never enough for social spending, education and health. finally, europe needs a policy on asylum and migration based on international law, humanitarian solidarity with refugees and solidarity between member states. the european union is not only a member of the european union, but also a member of the european union, and it is a member of the european union. but, mr president, you must first of all put this request to the european people's party, to those of your own party who are blocking this proposal, with the result that the mediterranean countries of the south are taking a disproportionate share of the responsibility. mr president, to achieve all this, we need other policies, or rather we need another europe, the europe for which the left fights, the europe which resists and fights, the europe of the peoples.
mr president, welcome to the president of the republic of cyprus, even under these circumstances. for your presence here today to have any value, you would have to have made it clear that turkey cannot have any european ambition unless it fulfils all its obligations towards the european union and towards the republic of cyprus, and that there is no point in german tanks being moved to occupied cyprus, so that our partners are indirectly supporting the occupation. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a very good one. the indexes may be rising, but the people are still suffering. young people see their dreams crushed and their hopes dashed by the high rents, the cost of living and the low wages they receive. but these formulas, mr president, were imposed by your fellow members of the european right. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources allocated to the structural funds are used to finance the necessary measures. (the president cut the speaker off) )
mr president, mr anastasiades, i am from the opposition in cyprus, i welcome you, we have our differences, but i congratulate you on one thing: today you made a very correct statement about cyprus: you have put it as an invasion and occupation issue, and i realise, listening to my colleague, mr nart, that i could not have imagined that someone could be so out of touch with reality, because very correctly, mr president, you referred to the refugees from cyprus and some of us were children at the time and have a personal perception of the turkish invasion and the continuing occupation. but, mr president, i have two very brief questions to ask you: firstly, we have received so many decisions from european courts, resolutions from this european parliament and the european union; what else do we want specifically ? we want sanctions against turkey? do we want an embargo? and the last one: i hope you will continue to follow the same line and know that german submarines are being used by turkey against european interests in the eastern mediterranean.
dear president, i welcome you as well. we support a solution of a bi-zonal bi-communal federation, because in the face of this solution the status quo is unfortunately intolerable to some people. the opposite of this solution is the metamorphosis and the lesson of occupation. because possession is a monster that grows bigger with time. fear, your honor, is sometimes useful when you need to bend over. but we need a stand now. i understand, of course, that excessive courage is not always a good guide. we expect you to balance between concern and initiative. the answer to our concerns, mr president, is as follows: it is not with the solution that we will bring what all cypriots are entitled to; it's the solution. i mean that the time that will follow the solution will prove whether we can - and can - greek cypriots and turkish cypriots build a common home with a common homeland, with a common authority.
mr president, i would like to welcome, as a dear friend, the president of the republic of cyprus, mr nicos anastasiades. i think that today is a particularly important moment in the european parliament, because here is the president of the republic of cyprus, the only member state of the european union, which is still divided and under turkish occupation, struggling for national and natural survival with the support of the european union. i think this is particularly important, because my dear friend manfred weber has rightly said that we may be a small country in terms of area and population, but the european union attaches particular importance and value to it because this country is really firmly committed to european principles and values. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union, and it is a political union. you are rightly commended by all the political leaders here in the european parliament for the truly outstanding effort you have made to save cyprus from bankruptcy and in this way have effectively delivered the message against the populists and the eurosceptics. in conclusion, mr president, i would like to say that the european union must send its own strong message that cyprus must become a normal... (the president cut the speaker off) )
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. we believe that the solidarity fund is the very idea of the european union, solidarity. i would like to point out, however, that there is still a lot of red tape, with the result that many countries expect to be covered for emergencies and disasters which are not immediately dealt with, and that the european citizens feel that the solidarity fund is close to them. i think there is room for improvement and the european parliament has the possibility in the future to improve it and to strengthen it for the good of all of us.
