the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. it is a clean and cheap source of energy that can be used very quickly across the eu by technologies that are already available and widespread. this is why reducing consumption and making our economy more energy efficient should be one of the eu's main strategic priorities. savings are also an integral part of the strategy to ensure europe's long-term energy security. it's been proven that every one percent improvement in energy efficiency will bring about a much greater decrease in our dependence on imports. for natural gas, this is a decrease of up to 2% in its import volume. and only if a very ambitious target is adopted will the current level of import dependency be maintained. otherwise, if the 30% target were to be adopted, our dependence would rise to over 70%. energy efficiency is also the future of our economic competitiveness and our economic development. we should clearly reject the view that efficiency is an obstacle to economic growth, that european policy in this area will only require hundreds of billions of euros of private and public spending without any significant economic or social benefits. in my opinion, the opposite is true. if the 40% energy efficiency target is approved, we will open the way to gdp growth and employment. in contrast, a target of 35% would lead to significantly lower results, even by 1,5% of gdp. even lower results are expected by models for targets set at even lower levels. similarly, a higher target will have an impact on lower international fuel prices, on the european price of electricity and, not least, on the price of emission allowances. the result will not be, as some have claimed, that ambitious energy saving commitments will reduce the competitiveness of european industry and have an overall negative impact on it. the european commission had all this data at its disposal. she worked with them to calculate the scenarios. she was aware of all the opportunities and benefits that energy efficiency offers. however, it ended up choosing one of the least ambitious 2030 targets of all possible models. by setting a 30% target, maintaining a number of exceptions and flexibility in article 7 and in many other areas, it has unfortunately not met the expectations that the coming decade brings. so i have to ask: what happened to the 'energy efficiency first' principle? so, what, we're just left with blank forms? because the facts clearly show that even 40% of the target can be achieved at an acceptable cost. and on the contrary, it will create new opportunities for construction, for the development of energy services, because the potential for energy savings is far from being fully exploited. in industry, less than half of the potential has already been used up, but in the case of buildings, for example, 80% of the potential is still untapped. it is in buildings that significant changes can be achieved at reasonable cost. by accelerating the renovation of european buildings, we will not only achieve long-term reductions in energy consumption, but also contribute to addressing the most pressing issues related to energy poverty. today, millions of europeans have great difficulty in paying for heat, energy or gas. very often, they also live in apartments that are not properly heated or that are unhealthy because of poor heating and ventilation. in doing so, each additional percentage of energy efficiency improvements will help these households to pay their energy bills. in conclusion, i would like to emphasise that by signing the paris climate agreement, we committed ourselves to taking measures that will lead to a significant reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, so that there is no increase in average temperature by two degrees celsius. energy savings are expected to make a significant contribution to this. however, the proposal put forward by the european commission is far from this. great results require great ambition. i believe we will be ambitious enough to achieve the same results in the case of energy efficiency.
in december last year, we voted in the itre committee for another major part of the so-called winter package. i won't deny that i could imagine a completely different conclusion. from the outset, the discussions have been very difficult to find a common compromise that would limit the ambition of the commission proposal, which drastically exceeds the position of the member states, because this will be a problem in the institutional negotiations. i know from experience that every objective must have economically justifiable costs, and i am completely lacking in these for the 40% energy efficiency target that was voted for. such a dramatic intervention in the energy and heating markets will require billions of investments not only from citizens and businesses but also from the state budget. i fear that the final bill for electricity and heat will not be paid by the citizens themselves, but by the parliament. energy is one of the key sectors affecting the competitiveness of the eu as a whole. if we override the setting of mandatory parameters for efficiency, renewable resources and the like, we can do very serious damage to the economies of the member states in the future.
the question posed by the blue card. i would like to ask the honourable member, since you speak so beautifully about the energy poverty of the socialists and the number of people in the eu who suffer from energy poverty, why did the socialist group not support the legal definition in the text, but only the very vague definition in the recital? because we are the legal definition in the text, which we could use in the subsequent negotiations, as the gue/ngl proposed. you socialists have just used something vague, which can be interpreted in any way.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, you know this is not a committee meeting, so i will not speak on one or two issues at the expense of the complexity of other issues which are equally vital. i would say that this is definitely one of the most important proposals, a key proposal, that we have under this mandate. yes, it is also true that the european parliament, in comparison to the council, has done a fairly good job, but let me make two remarks. one is, yes ambition is important, but there are two things which are even more important: one is that we do something that is not doable, and the second is that we might be ambitious in some parts of this parliament, but we reach a fragmented result which sends an inadequate political message to the other institutions, primarily the council. i regret on some of the issues we were unable to maintain a broader coalition due to issues which are difficult to comprehend. so let us do a serious vote and let us send out a message and create a good basis for negotiations, because this is key and we do have to be ambitious and realistic.
at this point, i would normally thank the governance reporters for their great work and urge you to support the report. but we are faced with a document that lacks any deeper relationship and balance with the documents it is necessarily intended to cover. the current governance concept has given up on addressing the issues of overlapping policies and documents, such as the interaction of energy efficiency with the ets, which is exactly the problem it was intended to address. the document included only a vague definition of energy poverty, which is afflicting more and more people in the eu. the regulation contains an unrealistic linear trajectory for achieving objectives which not only do not reflect the economic capabilities of the states, but even the elementary laws of physics. instead of being a balancing instrument to achieve the objectives set out in other legislation, this regulation has been misused to push through the rapporteur's ambitious targets, which are intended to follow exactly the same trajectory as the emission reduction targets in the automotive sector. for that reason, i do not intend to support this report in any way.
i would very much appreciate a useful speech by commissioner cañete. we have heard a number of arguments which demonstrate the importance of the directive under consideration. i think we're all aware of it. we recognise that reducing consumption is essential to ensure the long-term competitiveness of our economy and is the key to reducing co2 emissions. it's also the most effective solution to energy poverty. for these reasons, we should adopt very ambitious measures to promote energy efficiency. the energy committee did so last december. it is shown that accepting a 40% commitment will have relatively large benefits for the european economy and businesses despite the high costs. in the case of buildings, we know that this is the sector where there is a huge potential for savings, of which we have only used 20% so far. we also need a very strong article 7 because the amount of derogations and flexibility that member states use then only brings about 0.75% of the savings instead of the expected 1.5%. i would also like to thank professor gierek and all the other rapporteurs for the very useful and very high-quality work they have done in preparing the report of the committee on energy and i would like to invite all colleagues to support this opinion of the committee on energy, research and innovation, because this directive is very important for the integration of the energy union as a whole.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 17 january 2017. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. this directive follows up on directive 2009/208/ec and the october 2014 european council decision, which envisaged a minimum of 27% renewable energy in the eu in 2030. the ep has asked the commission to raise this target to 30%, with renewables accounting for only 24.3% of consumption in 2030 if current trends continue. the directive provides for the promotion of renewable sources by appropriate state aid schemes and other measures, including cross-border expansion. the increase in renewable energy sources in cooling and heating is also foreseen. in transport, a harmonised approach is required in view of international trade in biofuels. in this context, the energy union governance proposal is an important coordination element. this includes planning where member states formulate national energy and climate plans, reporting and monitoring, with member states reporting on the progress of their national plans. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, lay down the rules for the application of this regulation and the rules for the application of the delegated and implementing acts referred to in article 4 of regulation (eu) no 1290/2013. the commission will assess the impact of the aid on the union's energy supply and demand in the light of the conclusions of the european council in copenhagen on 26 and 27 june 2016. regardless of the reality of the estimates or targets, it is clear that without a carbon tax, these ambitious targets are not very realistic.
i strongly welcome the ambitious revised proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources. i firmly believe that the european union will learn from its past mistakes and will not allow its policies in this area to continue to contribute to the deforestation of rainforests worldwide, the taking of land, the destruction of biodiversity and the devastation of local communities. in particular, i support the proposal that the contribution from biofuels and bioliquids produced from palm oil will be 0% from 2021. this proposal reflects the resolution on palm oil and rainforest destruction of 4 april 2017, in which the european parliament called on the commission to adopt measures to phase out the use of vegetable oils, including palm oil, which cause deforestation, in biofuels, by 2020, at the latest. on the other hand, i cannot agree with amendments nos 296 and 346 which require that biofuels, bioliquids and biomass fuels produced from forest biomass do not include straw and coal tar. the commission considers that the proposed measures would be in line with the principles of the union's sustainable forest management strategy, which is based on the principle of sustainable forest management. i believe that the directive should continue to allow the treatment of wood which is damaged in this way.
the next item is the report by gabriel mato, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the conservation of fishery resources and the protection of marine ecosystems through technical measures, amending council regulations (ec) no 1967/2006, (ec) no 1098/2007, (ec) no 1224/2009 and regulations (eu) no 1343/2011 and (eu) no 1380/2013 of the european parliament and of the council, and repealing council regulations (ec) no 894/97, (ec) no 850/98, (ec) no 2549/2000, (ec) no 254/2002, (ec) no 812/2004 and (ec) no 2187/2005 (com(2016)0134 – c8—0117/2016 – 2016/0074(cod)) (a8—0381/2017).
ms briano, i felt in your non-verbal communication that you were disappointed with me for cutting your time. but i do apologise, you had one minute and i am afraid we are well behind schedule. we need to be fair to those colleagues who come after us, so my apologies once again.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 16 january 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by linnéa engström, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down management, conservation and control measures applicable in the convention area of the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation (sprfmo) (com(2017)0128 – c8—0121/2017 – 2017/0056(cod)) (a8—0377/2017).
madam president, i also agree with my predecessors that these development strategies are indeed a platform for transnational cooperation. it is important to seek synergies, it is important to work together, to coordinate our activities. however, i also agree with what the rapporteur said in his report and in his speech, that he had doubts about the quality of implementation. it is precisely the strengthening of human and administrative capacities, as well as the reinforced role of local and regional authorities in the implementation of these macro-regional strategies, that needs to be called for. this was also emphasised by my colleague mrs breso. i think that macro-regional strategies should not further weaken cohesion policy, but should complement it well. then i support them in that sense as well. if there's any splintering or duplication, i don't think they deserve this support. i agree with commissioner creţu that these macro-regional strategies will flourish if they are part of a long-term process.
i was in favour of introducing emergency measures for greece, and therefore supported the amendment of the general regulation. in my opinion, it was a question of solidarity, and it is important for me to respect that question. it is important to monitor developments and it shows that there has been an improvement in performance within greece, but i too would like to call for more transparency and support my colleague arimont, because we have to be based on reliable data. i would like to thank the commissioner because she has shown herself to be very accommodating, particularly in favour of greece, but i think that the request for a complete report with the data presented here today is quite relevant and should therefore be repeated, and i support it.
i would like to join my predecessors in assessing the crisis that may be developing in the area of our seas, our oceans. i am reminded of article 14 of the un agenda, which calls for the protection and sustainable use of the seas and oceans, but industrial fishing itself is a disaster for biodiversity and the very standard of living in the oceans. i also want to draw attention to science magazine, which issued a very sobering warning earlier this year: the area that can be called a dead zone in our seas and oceans has quadrupled. they're mostly coastal areas. at the same time, scientists say that the best way to counter this danger is to work well with local businesses, especially farmers. i think we should dissolve this commitment. i wanted to say something about the problem of emissions from shipping, which are set to rise by up to 250%, but i have no time.
the report finds that climate change, in particular weather fluctuations, droughts and floods, negatively affect more the lives of those who are in some way threatened by poverty, illiteracy or whose dignity is not taken seriously enough in society. so it's mostly women. this report highlights important facts that we should consider when we seek solutions, such as the fact that women are the ones who suffer the most from all the climate fluctuations, because they are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are the ones who are running the household and looking after the household. on average, women worldwide carry out more than 70% of all water-related activities in areas affected by climate change. 70% of all women in the agricultural sector work there, but women are largely excluded from decision-making on economic or environmental policy. the fact that 781 million people under the age of 15 are illiterate, and two-thirds of them are women, also shows that there is a need to engage in this issue.
i want to share with you an experience and some information. the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is an impartial investigative body and its activities may involve high-level policy. this is the situation in hungary and also in the czech republic, where the project of prime minister babiš's "cats' nest" is under discussion. i have no doubt that olaf's investigations are independent and professional. that is why, in the case of politicians, speed of investigation and transparency are in the public interest. in this particular case, there was no reason to withhold the final report, which was eventually obtained and published by the media anyway. the olaf report shows that fraud has occurred. it will be a test for the rule of law in the czech republic, whether everyone is equal before the law. and lessons for national and european union authorities to be more transparent next time. at last, madame the president, allow me to share with you some personal information. today, i am the happy grandmother of a grandson named charles and i hope he will be happy in the european union we are now building.
i would also like to start by congratulating the newly-made grandmother, mrs. šojdra. i would like to comment for one minute on the problem of unanimity in the european council. in my view, the grounds for this requirement are indeed sound, and this principle of unanimity in the european council can be crucial for our future and the cohesion of the eu. it is important to apply this principle also, for example, when considering the issue of compulsory permanent quotas, and i want to distinguish these fundamentally from those which have been in favour of italy and greece on one occasion. i feel that this is a great policy and this policy threatens the unity of the eu. these matters should also be decided by consensus. but we must accept this principle of unity, including with regard to poland. the polish government should blunt this dispute precisely in relation to the commission, because the rule of law has common features. the commission should then consider more whether there is still room for a better agreement than using tougher procedures.
i have endorsed the rapporteur's report. in my opinion, it's well-balanced. as regards the baltic, danube, alpine and adriatic-ionian strategies, i am convinced that they constitute a platform for transnational cooperation and should be supported in this respect. they are also a distinct theme in regional policy within the eu, and synergies, coordination and cooperation between member states and regions should be sought. it is important that the rapporteur has raised certain doubts about the quality of implementation and the capacity of the staff and the capacity of the administrations to manage these implementations. we also need greater powers for local and regional authorities. i encourage further cooperation on this basis, however i would be very cautious if it were to be further creation, further special strategies.
i endorsed the report. in my view, the final form of this report is a reasonable compromise. proposals that can only be described as lobbying were rejected. the pressure on members of parliament was indeed quite strong, but i am glad that parliament resisted this pressure, that not only the use of electrical networks was prohibited, but also those involving impulse discharges, which were euphemistically called technical measures. i have, in this sense, promoted biodiversity, let's say, the good development of our oceans, seas and coastal areas so that life can be preserved in them. it is also important to reject other practices, such as industrial fishing, where after a few trips by such vessels, dead zones remain. we should definitely come back to this sometime.
i was shocked to read at the end of last year in the scientific journal science that the dead zones in our oceans, seas and especially coastal areas have quadrupled and increased. the dead zones are caused by lack of oxygen. i think we have to be able to fight this, that we even have the means and the tools to do so. we need to work better with the farmers, the local farmers, the local businesses, who can take simple measures to prevent these pollutants from entering coastal areas. mr faria's report describes very well what this loss of biodiversity means. we have the problem of emissions from shipping, which can go up by 50 percent, but even as much as 250 percent, these are all challenges that we face and we really need to address them. i was therefore happy to support this report by mr farii, who is dealing with it, i think, with honour.
madam president, we have mentioned the nuclear deal. i must say that i understand the reasons, but there is no need really to talk about this because we stand firmly behind the deal, and of course our position is very different from what we see across the atlantic. but that is not a reason to compromise on our principles and values. i must say we are fooling ourselves that purely economic issues were the driving force, and that there is a major difference between the radicals and the so-called moderates: as we have seen, in fact in the last few days, that is not the case. and seeing their excessive force, the killings, the arrests and, i am afraid, the executions that will follow, well this is something we cannot compromise on. i do condemn the excessive violence and the behaviour of the iranian regime, and i show solidarity to the iranian people. i also have expectations that we will send a strong message that we want respect for fundamental rights and that this excessive behaviour will be investigated and we will be firm on our values and principles. i am afraid that seeing what the vice-president and her office have said and tweeted, so far, we have failed. i am sorry that ms mogherini is not here today so that i could say that to her face-to-face.
madam president, the iranian people have been suppressed by a brutal theocracy for nearly 40 years. the so-called islamic republic of iran that was imposed in 1979 has brought nothing but killings, torture, misery and poverty on the great people of iran, as well as terrorism and the export of islamic fundamentalism to neighbouring countries and the rest of the world. now, after so many years, the people of iran have again taken to the streets and are calling ‘down with the dictators’, and they continue to pay a very heavy price. (the speaker is showing an a4 picture) this is a picture of the 24-year-old saru ghahremani from the city of sanandaj. he disappeared on 3 january while taking part into protests. after 11 days, the authorities informed his mother that the body of her son was at a morgue. she says that she has seen extensive bruises all over his body. thousands of young protesters have been imprisoned. at least seven people are reported to have died in prison after being arrested in the recent protests. the eu needs to call for an independent international inquiry into the deaths in custody of arrested protesters. we should expect ms mogherini to tell iran that we cannot tolerate any execution of demonstrators. iran has a very well-organised and long-established democratic opposition coalition. the national council of resistance of iran under the leadership of ms maryam rajavi, was founded in 1981 with a secular platform. it advocates for full equality between men and women, the abolition of the death penalty, and fundamental freedoms. the regime has blamed the protests on this opposition movement. we cannot leave the iranian people alone.
madam president, let’s be very clear and frank. we are dealing with a religious fundamentalist regime, or rather a dictatorship. we are dealing with part of an anti-western coalition. we are dealing with a country which has very dangerous nuclear ambitions and with a country that is trying to become a regional power, which would shake the power balance in the region. all that is contrary to our own european interests. now we can see that the people of iran want a regime change and that in all 31 provinces in iran people simply went out into the streets and called for that. the revolutionary guards subsequently killed dozens of people in the streets. they have arrested about 8 000, and some of those arrested have already been killed under torture. i have a picture of the very first person who was killed. so iran is now in a very explosive situation and unfortunately the european union is still following a failed policy of engagement. that must stop. the european union has to speak up and we have to admit that the people of iran, unfortunately, are hurt by the current policies of the european union. so, instead of having friendly relationships with iranian officials, the eu should clearly take the side of the people of iran who want change, including engagement with the best organised exile opposition organisation, the pmoi, rather than cutting ties with them. we should clearly say that we will not tolerate any executions of demonstrators under any excuse and, if the iranian authorities continue, we must simply break off our relationships and again impose sanctions on iran, for human rights violations.
less than three weeks ago, massive protests erupted in iran. it started in the second largest city with demonstrations against poverty and government corruption, but the uprising spread across the country. the slogans quickly became political, calling for the fall of the islamic republic of iran. protests have swept over 100 cities across iran, with approximately 8,000 people arrested in two weeks. at least seven people died in prison torture, but the total number of victims is undoubtedly higher. amnesty international called for an investigation, but of course that's not happening. the regime has disconnected and censored the internet and social media to prevent the spread of this uprising. government intelligence agents identify protesters throughout the day, but arrest them only at night to avoid public outrage. there are, as i said, deaths of detainees who are actually murdered by the government regime. the difference between the 2009 iranian uprising and these recent protests is as follows. previous protests were the result of a dispute at the government level, but this time the people are really against the entire regime and the government regime is aware of this. the people demand a change of this regime to democracy and freedom. i personally had a longstanding relationship with the main iranian opposition, the pmoi, which the iranian regime blamed for the protests. i even met the leader of the opposition mrs. marjam rajavi. she has many supporters among the younger generation inside iran, who have these days posted on bridges and public places her image and her 10-point plan for iran, which is: separation of religion from the state, women's rights, minority rights, freedom of speech, end of the death penalty and iran without nuclear weapons. that's a plan that deserves our support. the people of iran expect the eu to show solidarity with them. i therefore call on the eu to warn the iranian regime very clearly that we will not tolerate the execution of any of the protesters. we need to support these protesters. the current eu response, in my view, is neither sufficient nor swift.
i join the description of the situation as made by my speakers and colleagues. kenya's re-elected president uhuru kenyatta has taken office, been sworn in, and is expected to serve another five-year term. the opposition says he was not elected legally, and is calling for demonstrations, but local organizations that monitored the elections and the results say the result was okay. but the police firing tear gas at protesters is clearly not ok, and in this context, it is essential to disagree with the fact that more than 70 people have died in major protests in the past. so, however the opposition calls these elections rigged, we have to accept that the president has been installed and his term of office has been established. the uk, eu foreign policy chief mogherini and other diplomats congratulated him on his victory. what should the eu do in this situation? i think it is important to support decisively the efforts of the group of eminent african personalities led by kofi annan and to provide any necessary assistance to this group from the eu. the council also noted the need for the international community to unite in support of the dialogue led by kofi annan. it is also important, in my view, to support the un's response to the events in kenya, which it is carrying out not only at political level but also in concrete support to the affected civilian population. it is therefore, in my view, very important that the eu not only engages in political dialogue but also is present in the country with concrete action to help the situation of the affected civilian population. until a legitimate political solution is agreed, the eu and its member states cannot, in my view, maintain normal relations with kenya. it will be important to continue to monitor the situation in kenya closely. all efforts to end the violence should be supported, this is of course a priority, but also to ensure democracy, stability and respect for human rights. i think that would be a good indication of the eu's position.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to say to mr lange that although we usually agree in the committee on international trade on many things, this will not be one of them: eu trade agreements should not be extended that far beyond the scope of what we can call ‘trade policy instruments’. i have the feeling that what we can see here is a clear tendency to call for sanctions in trade agreements we are negotiating with third countries, and we in the ecr group oppose that approach. we worry that applying sanctions would have a counterproductive effect on how much our partners would be willing to commit in the scope of the tsd chapters. again, there are definitely limits to which we can use trade policy for some achievements in the field of human rights or environmental protection. there is no doubt that tsd chapters must be better implemented, but there are other instruments, other options, that need to be further explored. first of all, an introduction of measurable targets defining clear procedures on how to deal with complaints and how to launch government consultations. thirdly, to recognise that each trade partnership is a different one and that civil society takes different forms in different trade partners. last, but not least, we should also make better use of our own resources – our delegations, chambers of commerce contacts, member states’ embassies and all diplomatic channels. we have to use our eu soft power through the instrument of tsd chapters, and the only way i see that this can be achieved through trade policy is on the basis of cooperation and continuous dialogue. we have to treat our trading parties as partners and not threaten them with sanctions.
colleagues, it is my pleasure to inform you that the delegation to the parliamentary assembly of the union for the mediterranean will meet today mr adel al asoomi, vice-president of the arab parliament, and mr ahmed mechergui, chair of the committee on foreign affairs and national security. i would like to extend a warm welcome to mr al asoomi and mr mechergui and take the opportunity to stress the importance that we attach to cooperation between the european parliament and the arab parliament, so a warm welcome to you, gentlemen. (applause)i see requests for the floor for points of order, but i underline that i will accept only points of order with reference to the rule in the rules of procedure, otherwise i will not give the floor so that we can proceed with the vote.
mr vajgl, i am sorry but this is not a point of order. you have not cited the rule under which you want to speak. as i have said, due to the length of the vote that we will have today on key items and key packages, i will only accept points of order. i do apologise, but hopefully we will have the time tomorrow.
once again, note taken but we will now proceed with the vote. none of these were points of order.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
i give the floor to mr tarand just to make his point.
mr tarand, we are not there yet. we are still on the report by mr buchner. after the vote:
ms kumpula-natri, i made it clear on the first one, and on the second i specified the article and the paragraph, so in my opinion that was absolutely clear. (so then the original text falls and we will now proceed with amendment 317.) – after the vote:
mr pieper, the problem is that in consistency with the vote and according to the voting list, if the vote has taken place like that then it has been voted. i am afraid that is the case, so we will now proceed with the vote on amendment 102. – after the vote:
the reporter. i would like to ask, as do the other rapporteurs, to be referred back to the committee for the opening of interinstitutional negotiations.
(parliament approved the request)president. – that concludes the vote.
i would like to explain why i voted in favour of the renewable energy directive. i am in favour of increasing the share of renewable energy to 35%, as a binding target for the eu as a whole, but with flexibility for the national states. renewable energy is a good way to combat climate change and air pollution. of course, they are also opportunities for economic development and innovation. but sufficient flexibility should be left to member states. i also voted for the extension of the directive to aviation, because we know that aviation is one of the major polluters. i, on the other hand, did not advocate a too strict approach to biofuels. i'm all for bringing the first generation of biofuels to the level of 2017, which is a limitation for the future, but it doesn't negatively impact the investment that's already been made. the ep therefore adopted a proposal that is realistic and allows for a good bargaining position.
so let me tell you what the vote on the draft energy efficiency directive has finally come to. i voted in favour of the proposal because i consider energy saving to be a suitable tool for improving the environment. but progress cannot be faster than research and innovation. i also strongly support flexibility in setting and assessing the achievement of national targets in this area. i could not support raising the fixed mandatory target to 40%, which fortunately did not pass, and i did not vote for raising the target and for extending the renovation obligation to all public buildings. i consider that too big an impact on the state budgets. since a number of good amendments were tabled, i was able to vote in favour of the draft directive in the end.
i would like to comment on the last of the three proposals. it is a draft regulation on the governance of the energy union, and we voted on it last, because it actually closed the voting on the three pieces of legislation relating to the energy package. unfortunately, i was unable to endorse this draft regulation. in general, of course, i support a flexible approach for individual countries, and i therefore expected that this would be taken more into account when voting on amendments, for example, i did not support strict deadlines for national energy and climate strategies. i voted against the binding nature of national energy efficiency targets. i just think we need to leave a little more flexibility here. unfortunately, this third legislative proposal, the regulation, does not correspond fully to the two previous ones, which allowed for greater flexibility and rationality.
i'll allow myself one historical parallel. before world war ii, many nations and jews lived together. what's the matter? what else did the jews do that many people during the rise of the nazis changed their minds completely about the jews and then cooperated, beat them, handed them over to the nazis for ransom? they just bought into the propaganda, which is why we have to bring this up today. ladies and gentlemen, the lie about the eu that has been repeated a hundred times is becoming the truth, and if we do not realise this, the eu has no place in the future. and i personally don't want that. that is why i am happy to have this debate, that is why i am happy to have a say in this, and that is why i am happy to appeal to the commissioner and the commissioner to increase funding for organisations and for ways of combating any kind of propaganda.
i watch with regret and bitterness how much damage kremlin trolling has done on our soil, on the soil of eu member states. the eu-wide counter-disinformation team has been in place since 2015 and has just over 10 members. yes, there's been an expansion of east stratcom's team by two members after countless challenges from this house. the high representative has here - to put it mildly - underestimated the situation and is not irresponsibly rushing to remedy it. my country is flooded with meaningless false information about the eu. before the second round of the presidential election, a hail of prefabricated lies from ac 24, aeronet, sputnik and many others are being thrown at the decent opponent of the current president, zeman. let's think about our tactics against the kremlin.
for the alde group. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mrs tomcova, for her efforts and time devoted to this report. i really appreciate her efforts. we can speak many fine words about the youth employment initiative and argue with numbers and statistics. but for me, the main goal is quite simple, we have to teach young people to work. working is normal. that's my message to the graduates of the schools that the initiative is designed for. although the programmes financed by the initiative do not replace working hours, they make a lot of sense. i welcome the efforts to transform the initiative into a more sustainable financial instrument to tackle unemployment in the post-2020 period. the negotiations within the multiannual financial framework will ensure the necessary continuity of the programme. member states should not only make full use of the initiative's possibilities, but also invest themselves in promoting labour mobility, the potential of which remains untapped. the eu's workforce is about 243 million people, but only 8.5 million of them work within europe abroad. young people are the most willing to move for work. let's support them! we know from fairy tales that success and happiness awaited only the honzo who went out into the world to experience. the problem i see is also that our companies cannot rely on a functioning education system that equips young graduates with the skills that the job market needs. so let's connect successful businesses and educational institutions with young people who are actively looking to their future. only then can we help to address the skills gap, which is one of the main causes of high youth unemployment. let us join forces in our own countries, let us communicate with the national authorities that can do the most to make the initiative better. a hand that is extended should not be ignored, but firmly squeezed. so let's teach young people that it's great to go to work, to gain experience, to learn new things. the reward may not be a princess and half a kingdom, but a functioning economy is not to be thrown away.
as mentioned earlier, the statistics today show a decline in unemployment, including among young people. i believe that the youth guarantee has really helped young people in crisis situations in certain areas. it was the years 2013, 2014, 2015. the fact that in some countries, this european money did not help enough, is very much a matter of those nation states, which perhaps were not active enough and did not create the necessary conditions. so we need to look critically at how the program is implemented. we need data to be able to evaluate where the strengths and weaknesses are. here too, the member states must help us. but data collection is not the only thing that has a certain weakness. we need to improve the registration system, we need to improve the awareness of young people, so that this program really goes there, to those regions, to those young people who need it most. i agree with the suggestion that this program be more tailored to the disabled and also to young parents. i think that's a great and important suggestion. on the contrary, i do not agree with the increased bureaucracy that would be represented, for example, by the offer or the definition of a quality offer. indeed, uniform implementation does not necessarily mean more effective implementation. the key is the individual approach of the office to young people in need, taking into account national and regional specificities. so this program needs a fundamental reform.
for the group gue/ngl i also thank the two commissioners who have come here today to present the material we have all been waiting for, but i must say that the strategy presented to us leaves me with mixed feelings. on the one hand, i very much welcome the european commission's plans to work to ensure that all plastic packaging placed on the eu internal market is either reusable or easily recyclable by 2030, and that more than half of all plastic waste is recyclable by the same year. the single internal market for plastics is the right way forward, but it will require robust investment. we're facing a global plastic packaging crisis right now, and we don't have time to wait until 2030 and solve it by moving our plastic waste from china, where they don't want it, to africa. the situation in our oceans is unsustainable in the long run, and not just because of microplastics. it is therefore essential that ambitious legislation be put forward as soon as possible, on the basis of the strategy, by the commission itself. they must drastically reduce the consumption of both plastic items and packaging. we've done without them before, we'll have to do without them in the future. i'm not sure that we can rely on industry's voluntary commitments alone. after several studies of biodegradable plastics conducted in the czech republic, which found that in most cases these do not decompose even after two years in the soil, i am skeptical about them. we should start verifying what we're proposing, not letting ourselves be pampered by the industry over what they're proposing.
for the ppe group. allow me to thank all my colleagues on the juri committee, and in particular our rapporteur, mr tadeusz zwiefko, for the work they have done in the preparation of this report. i want to assure all citizens that we are here today to discuss a new draft of important legislation that affects many citizens. we register around 16 million international families in the eu. unfortunately, we also register 140,000 international divorces a year and, worst of all, 1,800 cases of child abduction by a single parent a year. the regulation governing jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial and parental matters has been in force, with the exception of denmark, since 2005. however, experience has shown that the existing wording can be improved, especially for the benefit of children. it is also necessary to ensure that this regulation only improves procedural rules. substantive law, such as the definition of marriage, is not covered by this regulation. subsidiarity is respected. the regulation also applies only to so-called crossborder cases, i.e. cases where each spouse is a national of another country. it is in the interest of juri and of this whole parliament that this legislation should be adopted because it is in the best interests of the child, and i can say on behalf of the juri committee that we have dealt with this issue, this aspect of the new proposal, very carefully.
maybe we can hear the voice of the only child present in the room, the child of a colleague. first of all, let me thank the rapporteur for the excellent job he has done. the ever-increasing mobility within the eu is of course also increasing the number of international couples. matters of marriage and parental responsibility are areas that require urgent attention. we must then pay particular attention to children, including cross-border placement, recognition and enforcement of decisions and cooperation with national authorities. a separate and sad chapter is the international abduction of one of the parents. according to statistics, one child goes missing every minute in europe. in 2015, more than 60,000 kidnappings were reported. the revised regulation we're discussing today is designed to make the return of a kidnapped child more effective. i welcome the approach of the rapporteur, who is aware of the sensitivity of a number of issues and has chosen, in my view, a cautious but clear approach.
i was here the whole time the discussion was going on and i signed up to catch the eye. mr commissioner, mr rapporteur, i would like to acknowledge the role of the rapporteur. i really think it was the proverbial egg dance, because this norm is a norm of the process. it is designed to help resolve disputes that arise primarily as a result of divorce. the best interests of the child are paramount, and that would be appropriate to consider as a real priority, regardless of any particular ideology. clear rules must be established and decisions must be taken quickly, in accordance with clear deadlines, and these deadlines are provided for in this regulation, so this revision of the brussels regulation is simply very important. it is also important, of course, to inform parents of their rights and obligations and to contribute to mutual mediation, but mediation is no longer covered by this regulation.
in writing. the higher mobility of people in the eu also leads to a higher number of marriages between people of different nationalities. these marriages are not without conflict, separation and an increase in cross-border litigation. it is therefore appropriate to facilitate both the enforcement of judicial decisions given in another member state and the mutual recognition of such decisions. i support the proposal for a revision of the brussels ii regulation because it adapts the existing rules to this new reality. i also welcome the compulsory consultation of the child in cases where the child is able to express his or her opinion on the matter under consideration. i believe that this obligation will help the court to reach a decision that is in the best interests of the child. in this regard, there is a need to strengthen mutual trust between member states by recognising such interviews of children between member states. the abolition of the procedure for the declaration of enforceability of judgments in all areas covered by the regulation will also contribute to strengthening this mutual trust and to shortening the whole of the judicial procedure. i also consider it useful for the proceedings on international child abduction to be conducted by specialised courts in each member state. this specialisation should increase the quality of those decisions and, in fact, shorten the time limits for their issuance.
for the group gue/ngl. first of all, allow me to thank and congratulate the rapporteur on his work. the marrakesh treaty will give more than 300 million blind, visually impaired and dyslexic people access to books and other printed materials, which are currently hampered by the copyright problems mentioned by ms wikström. people who are blind, visually impaired or have reading difficulties continue to face barriers to accessing books and other printed material. the need to increase the number of works and other subject matter in accessible formats such as braille, audiobooks and enlarged fonts has finally been recognised at international level. this will enable the persons and organisations concerned to make accessible format copies of the works and to distribute them throughout the eu and in third countries that are contracting parties. we will increase their access to education and their ability to participate fully in life.
education and full participation of blind, visually impaired or reading-impaired people in society are also linked to the accessibility of books, textbooks and other printed works. yet today, only 5% of them are published in accessible formats, and in developing countries, almost none are published at all. accessible books are often produced at the expense of disability organisations, which cannot provide them across borders because of copyright. the marrakesh treaty, which removes these obstacles, has already been ratified by 33 countries around the world and it is very important that the eu countries join them as soon as possible. more than 30 million europeans with severe visual impairments, who have had very limited or no access to books and other printed material because of copyright, have been waiting too long for the directive to come into force.
i am convinced that persons who are blind, visually impaired or have other reading difficulties continue to face many obstacles in accessing books and other printed material. i agree with my predecessors that, unfortunately, one of the obstacles has been the lax approach of the european institutions. he may not have been lax, but he did delay access to these cultural assets for this particular group of people. i am therefore very pleased that he has advanced the ratification process so that we can now conclude it. i would very much like to see us learn from this example, which we are currently dealing with here, so that the next time the union's institutions and bodies will act in the best interests of these specific individuals, they will do so as quickly as possible and as efficiently as possible.
it's very sad to hear, because there's no shortage of human trafficking victims. the statistic of 700,000 to 2,000,000 people is a very sad statistic, and of course, as you said, predominantly women and children, who are very vulnerable. then there are the sectors where women are most in slave labor, we mentioned agriculture, but it's also construction, manufacturing, domestic work. if you look at the geography, it's mostly women from albania, china, morocco, nigeria and vietnam. obviously, such trafficking cannot be tolerated and it is right that we look for solutions that are more effective. the czech republic is a destination and transit country rather than a source country in the field of anti-trafficking. we provide protection and assistance to victims through specific programmes and we work with many non-profit organisations. i would like to emphasise that the non-profit sector is a very important partner in the fight against trafficking in human beings and therefore i would recommend that other countries consider its greater involvement. in view of national specificities, it would also be necessary to strengthen action at national level to identify specific sectors and territories where support and assistance to such victims needs to be strengthened.
the question posed by the blue card. i thank my colleague for bringing this up. i would like to assure him that if we are planning a project for this european year at national and regional level, for example in the czech republic, we have involved the archdiocese of olomouc, for example, but i would like to ask you a question: what specific involvement of the church would you imagine?
so the european year of cultural heritage 2018 starts with great expectations, as my colleague diaconu said here. why do we want to return to our cultural heritage, to our roots? because if we know our history and our cultural heritage, we can better understand our present and also prepare for the future of a common europe. among the many objectives of the european year, i would like to highlight the focus on regions, local activities, especially the involvement of young people, and also new technologies. the ep specifically called for the commemoration of important symbolic milestones this year, such as the 100th anniversary of the end of the first world war and the birth of new states. i would be very interested to see how they manage to involve the younger generation, those who have not been involved yet, and to use the budget that was finally approved in the amount of 8 million. as a member of parliament, i therefore personally support the regional initiatives that are emerging in my region, for example. it will be an exhibition of works of art broken age in olomouc and also a conference on the birth of modern central europe in kroměříž, where we will remember 1848 and 1918. an educational project for the creative involvement of young people from 4 countries was also submitted. i will be very careful about what projects are supported, because it must not be just a campaign, but it must be a truly creative activity. i'm afraid that if bureaucracy wins over creativity, it's a lost opportunity, and it can't happen.
for the group gue/ngl. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on the report. the report does have some positive elements, such as the recognition of the importance of regulated professions for the service or innovation sectors. but i have a problem with the basic principle of the proposed regulation. i consider that the obligation imposed on member states to notify the commission of the changes they have made to their national legislation in the field of regulated professions is directly contrary to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. after all, each country must be able to determine for itself what requirements and qualifications are required for the exercise of a particular profession. regulation of certain professions is necessary to ensure the protection of the public interest, a high level of consumer protection and a high quality of service. while i support the system of mutual recognition of diplomas and qualifications, i believe that the regulation of the conditions for the exercise of regulated professions must remain entirely within the competence of the member states. i do not want the commission to dictate to czech candidates for the post of lawyer the length of concipient practice or to prescribe the need for education for czech doctors, etc. i will advise my political group to abstain from voting on the motion. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i may have been absent from the meetings, but i was making my suggestions as is customary. so it's no surprise that i'm making such a recommendation to my faction, and i've been through many meetings within the faction as well.
madam president, 71% of european gdp and 68% of total employment come from services. regulated professionals account for 22% of all workers. with such numbers, it is shocking and unacceptable that, in many member states, the free movement of services is still not respected and promoted. it is equally shocking that member states, instead of moving towards harmonised regulations on professionals, continue to invent new national barriers to prevent free movement and the equal treatment of all eu citizens. i am here to tell you that a czech professional is just as good as a german, french or any other professional. we must deregulate where restrictions are unjustified and harmonise where they are. we cannot continue to allow economic protectionism within the single market.
recognition of professional qualifications is one way of promoting mobility and competitiveness within the eu. the 2013 revision of the directive was a step in the right direction. the obligation for member states to notify the commission of the list of their regulated professions and the possibility for member states to assess each other's national requirements also contribute to the removal of unjustified obstacles. in order to remove barriers, it is also important to make the professions in different countries more comparable. improving the database of all regulated professions would help to achieve this. the obligation on the state to assess the proportionality of the requirements it imposes before adopting a new regulation is also useful. however, this assessment is carried out differently in the member states. to effectively remove excessive requirements and prevent protectionism, it is necessary to ensure the same practice in all countries. i therefore support the proposal for a directive to establish a uniform framework for assessing the adequacy of national requirements. the common framework should help ensure that the proposed regulation is not a mere formality. at the same time, this would strengthen confidence between member states. i would also welcome the extension of the professional card beyond the current 5 professions for which it applies, to keep pace with the development of digital technologies and to remove administrative barriers.
if we are to continue to break down barriers in the internal market, one area must be occupational mobility. a common procedure at union level should remove disproportionate obstacles while guaranteeing a high quality of service. professional regulation is an important tool for protecting the public interest, patient safety and consumer protection. i agree that transparency and comparability of qualifications for regulated professions is essential and that the main benchmark for comparison should be quality of service rather than mere numbers. all stakeholders, with the social partners at the forefront, should be more closely involved in consultations on professional regulation. only in this way can we strengthen the trust which is absolutely essential for the functioning of the internal market. however, in addition to training and skills development, we also think about how to ensure that professionals have the right conditions to pursue their profession in the context of labour mobility and without it, i.e. on the domestic labour market.
to talk about the situation in nigeria and not to talk about religion, or not to talk about christianity, is a very strange situation, and i would like to object a little bit to what mrs. sargentini said here, because christians, that's the group that's been in nigeria for quite some time. he is under tremendous pressure, considering the dozens of christians who have died in recent years. how many dozens of christians were murdered. consider how many dozens of christians have been kidnapped and how many dozens of christian women have been raped. we're not saying that this is the main problem in nigeria. nigeria has other problems, dysfunctional government, massive corruption and other things that you mentioned here. but why don't the colleagues mention the group of christians who live there? there's nothing to be ashamed of. our tradition is based on christianity, and that's why we need to call on the nigerian government to do something about it.
i would like to begin by acknowledging the positive change that has taken place in nigeria since the 1990s. the last presidential election, held in 2015, which saw the election of president buhari, is considered the most transparent in the entire democratization process. but that's where the positive list really ends, because if we really look at how rich nigeria is in mineral resources and how little of that wealth is going into society, i think that's the fundamental problem that we see in nigeria. i would also like to comment on the attack on christians. the fundamental duty of every government is to ensure the protection of life and safety for its citizens. if christians are attacked simply because of their religion, then of course this is unacceptable and we must condemn it in the strongest possible terms, and i join my colleagues who have already done so. as far as boko haram is concerned, we have to help the government to resolve this situation. it should be seen that the basic military effort rests again with the government of nigeria.
the ep must respond where such injustice is taking place. last week, another 73 christians were murdered in benue. they are the victims of armed fulb shepherds. these shepherds, in harmony with and in effect supporting government policy, are obtaining pasture for their flocks at the expense of christian farmers. so the drought problem is becoming a problem of religious conflict, and we believe that the government should be addressing this situation, not just looking at it. that's why we're asking the government of president muhammadu buhari to respond. it is essentially similar to the statement issued by the bishops in nigeria, who are asking the nigerian government to protect its citizens and punish the invaders. the government must be the guarantor of security and the mediator of dialogue.
today we're voting on people who are fighting nonviolently for human rights in china. there's wu gan, who was sentenced to eight years for publishing articles. he is xie yang, a human rights lawyer who was tortured for his work. this is lee ming-che, a taiwanese democracy activist who was sentenced to five years, even though he is actually a citizen of another country. tashi wangchuk is in prison for defending the right of tibetans to study in their own language. tibetan monk chökyi was arrested for celebrating the dalai lama's birthday. the situation in china and tibet has deteriorated from a human rights perspective, at least since the current president xi jinping took firm hold of power. there are thousands of political prisoners in china, 7,500, and we're just mentioning a few. i would like to thank all of my colleagues for their cooperation in this statement and for their support.
i would also like to use my speech to support all political prisoners who are persecuted by the government regime in china. i shall refer to it only. of course, anyone who is unjustly persecuted should deserve our support and solidarity. what i think is important is to communicate that in china, real political rights are a complete illusion. what the united eu needs is to call on the member states to take a united approach to china. but i think we should also reach into our own conscience and say how many delegations are we sending to china and how many delegations are speaking and raising the issue of human rights. it's our duty not to be afraid to speak up, we can, so please let's use that on our trips to china.
i'll join my speakers. we were just talking about the situation in nigeria, but the situation in the congo is actually quite different and much worse. i join my colleagues in condemning the violence perpetrated by government forces, including the sexual violence of unbelievable proportions against women, the postponement of elections and the continuing deterioration of the situation, which is of course a symptom of today's congo. on the other hand, i think it is possible to agree with what mr castaldo or mr nart said, that we must be capable of concrete action, because that is what not only our electors but also the people of the congo expect from us. so let us try not only to write resolutions, which i welcome, but also to express those concrete procedures, including the freezing of accounts, the appeal to the member states to act in unison. that's our job, i guess.
in writing. today we have been dealing with the alarming situation in the democratic republic of congo. the overall situation in the country has been deteriorating since 2016, especially in connection with the refusal of the current president to step down at the end of his constitutional term of office. repression, violence are the order of the day. also alarming is the fact that the un has designated the situation as a humanitarian crisis of the highest level, level 3. the resolution calls on all parties to the conflict to engage in dialogue, to end the violence and to find a peaceful solution for the benefit of all the inhabitants.
mr president, on this material under discussion: i of course supported it, but i have a lot of reservations because it does not address all the problems that are associated with cross-border divorces and child abductions. of course, we need to speed up the work of judges, improve their quality, make judges who will really deal with this problem and orient themselves, and not a judge who once deals with criminal cases and then goes into civil disputes and does not know how to question a child and how a child should be heard. i'd like to give you one good example from germany. this is called cochemic practice, which is trying to get parents to agree, not judge. i think that something positive is missing from this legislation and that it needs to be supplemented in the future.
i supported this initiative, but yesterday's debate showed that we are again breaking into open doors and that many countries think, or many colleagues think, that if we give more money to something, we will solve the problem, but we will not solve the problem. the problem is not that there is little money for various programs. the problem is that many young people are not trained in a field that has a market place. many parents also fail to realize that if their child does not have a degree, he or she may as well apply himself or herself as a child with a college education. i think that is what this report does not say, and in the long term the debate on youth employment is simply not geared to the labour market, which is why i have a number of reservations about this report, and that is why i would like to join in this explanation of vote in order to take this fact into account in future reports.
i would like to thank you for this report and i would like to thank the commission for dealing with this problem. we have young people here in the gallery, and they can see that the eu is dynamic and responding to some of the problems that we see not only as meps, but earlier as company directors, when we often saw that two member states that were quite similar in language, like germany and austria, were not able to recognize some of the qualifications of people who are trained by a similar system. i therefore believe that this directive on the recognition of professional qualifications and the need to reform professional services is a step in the right direction. this reform needs to be pursued continuously, because only then can we ensure that we do not spend unnecessary money on youth unemployment.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i had the honour to chair the negotiations on this file on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and i can truly thank ms thun for all her work and all her efforts. this regulation is a good first step. no longer can disneyland say that the french can get cheaper tickets than czechs. this regulation fixes this. no longer can a company redirect customers without their consent. if i ask for the german website, i want a german website, not a czech one. this regulation fixes this. no longer can a company refuse because a credit card was issued in another country. if i go shopping in austria, my visa card is just as good as an austrian visa card. this regulation fixes this. this said, we must address the elephant in the room: copyrighted content. let’s be honest, this regulation will not fix the problem of blocked access to movies, tv, software or even e—books. it will not fix the first item that people think of when they hear the word geo—blocking and we must continue to move towards the end of this type of geo—blocking. we must end this artificial barrier in the digital single market.
mr president, the prohibition of discrimination on grounds of nationality is already laid down in the services directive. we need to adapt internal market rules to today's digital reality and say no to blocking. the regulation will enable citizens to buy goods electronically on fair terms, book accommodation, use services across the eu and finally, without distinction of origin. the proposal is, in my view, reasonably balanced. consumers should have access to goods and services under the same conditions, but this will not impose unreasonable costs on traders, nor will it automatically impose an obligation to comply with the law of the consumer's country, nor an obligation to deliver goods throughout the eu. i think it is right that the regulation will not apply to services supplied electronically and works that are protected by copyright, such as books, music and others, and that should be the case until we resolve the fair funding of authors.
mr president, discrimination against consumers on the basis of their nationality or country of residence is unfortunately a daily reality in the european union's internal market, and not just in the online environment. limited choice, different payment terms, unjustified price differences, but also different quality of the same goods at first sight are unpleasant experiences for many consumers. the geo-blocking regulation will limit some of these discriminatory practices and make it easier for consumers to access a range of goods and services. this is a step in the right direction and i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mrs róża gräfin von thun und hohenstein. the work to complete a fair internal market, where consumers have equal access to goods and services but also where consumers are not knowingly and intentionally misled, certainly does not end with its adoption. i trust that the commission will take this into account when preparing the package of measures for the new consumer policy, which we are eagerly awaiting.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, losses in tax collected have very serious consequences for our economy as well as for society. it is not just a shortage of government revenues; it distorts competition, sometimes it helps to finance illegal activities and, if losses are too high, it can push up the tax rates in other categories. that is why i am very happy that this area is one of the priority of eu and in last years, we made significant achievements. after focusing on income tax of large corporations and later on addressing the issue of anti-money laundering and transparency of ownership, now the commission is coming with the action plan and the proposals included in the vat package. it is very important because of vat is one of the largest sources of government revenues and, as it was said, we are losing a lot of money. i am glad that an important part of the proposal is the simplification of tax compliance, especially for small and medium sized businesses. we need to collect taxes better just not more expensively. i call on the finance ministers to reach agreement on the package and to go forward really quickly. i believe that better collection of taxes should not be used for increasing the government revenues. i believe we do not need to spend more, we just need to spend better. in my view, money gained should be invested mainly in the reduction of public debt and the reduction of the most devastating taxes for the economic growth. this is the way how we will benefit the future of our citizens and the growth of the eu economy.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, commissioner, allow me to join the ranks of those who want to thank julia girling, who, as i said, took this document de facto in half and brought it to a successful conclusion, in my view, because after years of hard work we are presenting the reform of the emissions trading system to you today. despite the very difficult negotiations, i believe that the text presented balances satisfactorily the issue of climate protection and the implementation of the paris agreement with the protection of european industry and the jobs it guarantees. the document that was accepted may not fully satisfy any camp. on the one hand, we have a series of great measures that will lead to an increase in the price of the allowance. on the other hand, measures to protect the potential growth of industrial production in the eu or exceptions to protect our steel sector. yes, i see a number of unfinished parts that we have not been able to remove for various reasons. for example, the unresolved issue of protecting european industry from imports of raw materials and products from countries that do not share our position on the fight against climate change, such as the so-called carbon adjustment mechanism. it would be good if the european commission could finally settle this issue once and for all in the years to come, since it has not succeeded here. especially considering the threat to our strong industry by cheap imports from china. i've talked about it on this floor many times. before this work was completed, the so-called winter energy package mercilessly entered the process, which, however, significantly disrupts some of the institutes and tools from the previous package, which was only completed. i cannot forgive myself for appealing to the commission: please make things come together.
madam president, no one congratulates us, the czech deputies, on the re-election of our president zeman, unfortunately there is nothing to congratulate. the elections in the czech republic were written as a referendum between going west or east. yes, president zeman is taking us far east and is welcome in moscow and beijing. but his election was about something else. the czech republic is doing well economically. yet, many people are unhappy with their lot in life, feeling that they are not benefiting from economic development, that they are not actually participating in it. prague's gdp is well above the european union average, but in many parts of the czech republic, people earn half the minimum wage in france or germany. people are afraid of uncontrolled immigration, both present and future. as central europeans, we may have become accustomed to a higher standard. but i'm convinced that our citizens understand the solidarity and the problems faced by people in other parts of the world. madam vice-president, i wanted to congratulate you, finland and you personally, on having elected a president and not succumbing to the snares of populism.
mr president, i would like to say to the prime minister: it is very nice to have, as the second prime minister, someone from a country like yours: someone from a country which is very close to me, and which has done a tremendously good job – i can see this, as a very frequent visitor and part-timer in your country. now, two points from my side. as concerns the western balkans, i think that not just among the western balkan colleagues here, but among many of us, you have full understanding and support: first point. on schengen, once croatia will complete and comply, it should be in: second strong point. finally, on the transnational lists, i understood the position you have taken – a position in terms of more debate, more clarification, right timing – but how would you see the process between now (the spitzenkandidaten) and, in the future, transnational lists? what is it that we could fine—tune that the croats and the czechs could better understand the institute of the spitzenkandidaten?
mr president, we are faced with five options for the future of the european union which have been put before us by the commission. what do they have in common? in principle, the common denominator is to keep power in brussels. and i would like to ask that we expand our considerations to two other possibilities as well. first, a responsible politician must always consider the crisis scenario and have a crisis scenario in place. and i would like, please, to expand the debate on considerations and situations like this. and then i'm going to ask you for one more variation. because we are still facing a demographic deficit and we should start a debate on the democratic scenario for the future development of the european continent. a scenario based on rational deregulation, a scenario where it no longer applies: 'we know what is good for you and we will tell you what to do', a scenario based on politicians telling citizens and voters: 'we are listening to you'.
mr. president plenkovic, good afternoon. the integration of the western balkan countries into the european union will undoubtedly affect the future of europe as a whole. later in the day, we will hear presentations by johannes hahn, commissioner for european cooperation, neighbourhood policy and enlargement negotiations, on the new strategy for the western balkans. it is a very ambitious document that envisages the possibility of montenegro and serbia joining the european union by 2025. do you believe such a time frame is possible? i ask this in light of croatia's experience of joining the european bloc. croatia's entry into the eu was possible before, but it was delayed because of the border problem with slovenia. this issue has not been fully resolved because you do not want to accept the arbitration court's decision from last year and argue that this issue is better resolved bilaterally. you also have unresolved border issues with serbia and montenegro. can these issues be resolved within a reasonable time, or will your country behave as slovenia has behaved towards you?
madam president, i would like to explain why i supported the regulation which ended up with a large majority of 557 meps. i would also like to thank mrs róża gräfin von thun und hohenstein, who has called for the adoption of this report. the regulation is intended to enable and facilitate citizens to buy goods and services at a distance throughout the european union. a clear prohibition of geo-blocking is proposed, specifying the conditions under which a redirection may occur and what cannot be considered discriminatory. the prohibition of blocking and related prohibitions will apply only to certain goods and services for the time being. electronically supplied services protected by copyright are therefore excluded. i agree with this restriction. the conditions should be set so that the extension of access to audiovisual works does not come at the expense of copyright.
madam president, i have supported this outcome of the trilateral negotiations. it was certainly very difficult to negotiate a compromise, but the result is a directive that aims to deliver on the commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 43% by 2030. it's a compromise that is acceptable. it's ambitious, but it's also achievable. it contains measures to prevent so-called carbon leakage and the shifting of investments to other countries. keeping the reduction coefficient at 2,2% is also a better solution than increasing it. i also consider important in the compromise that has been reached that the most efficient industries will have more free allowances. this is a very important measure that promotes innovation and modernisation, which also increases overall competitiveness.
i believe, madam president, that the report on the acceleration of clean energy innovation, which has been well received by mr buzek, is a good response by the european parliament to the commission's communication, because it has enriched the commission's communication with some important aspects. i consider the greatest contribution of this report to be the emphasis on a comprehensive strategy for the export of sustainable and clean energy technologies. the european union is ahead of the rest of the world in this area and there is a demand for these technologies. their exports therefore have great economic potential which our industry can exploit. i also strongly agree with the emphasis in this report on clean energy innovation from the bottom up, from citizens and municipalities. in europe and the czech republic, there are many successful examples of households and entire communities that are energy self-sufficient and do not pollute the environment. we should continue to encourage this approach.
madam chairman, female circumcision is a barbaric custom. today, there are some 140 million women worldwide who have undergone this shameful and dangerous operation. about 15 years ago, when i was a filmmaker living in kenya, i was commissioned to make a film about female circumcision. i did a 90-minute documentary with a small crew in a samburu village. it's called josephine's african story. men were not allowed to circumcise themselves. here's to our female cameraman whose professionalism has been able to drown out the shock she's been subjected to. josephine's 12-year-old samburu girl lay on the hammer outside the barn, crying in pain and humiliation. her own surgery made her a dull razor. it took about five minutes. then the women carried josephine to a flower-decorated hut. meanwhile, the men danced nearby and celebrated the occasion by drinking tea with milk. why am i telling you all this, ladies and gentlemen? in europe, the superstition prevails that only muslims practice this medieval custom in africa. it's not true. josephine was a christian, her parents were christians, the old lady with the razor was a christian. like the rest of the samburu, they were christianized decades ago by italian missionaries. the barbarity of female circumcision is not conditional on confession. it has nothing to do with faith. it's a manifestation of primitive common law.
mr president, if we are to discuss the western balkan countries and their ambitions to join the european union, we must first of all bear in mind that serbia is a key country in the region. the persistent efforts of a number of european union politicians to weaken the state have borne fruit. instead of yugoslavia and albania, there are two small member states croatia and slovenia. then there are albania, serbia, bosnia and herzegovina, with a structure that strongly resembles a confederation, montenegro, which separated from the rest of yugoslavia only by a very special voting mechanism in a referendum, and macedonia, which, moreover, cannot even be called macedonia. all non-eu countries have complex religious and ethnic situations, and all have an association treaty with the eu, as well as variously-conceived treaties on the free movement of persons. the eu's policy is to subordinate the foreign policy of these states to its own ideas, and the convulsive attempt to tear the province of kosovo from serbia is despicable. it is time to take clear positive steps towards the western balkan states, which is why i welcome this discussion.
thank you. i have given you more time because i did interrupt you, but i have to leave the gender balance to the political groups. that is something that is subject to deliberations in the groups.
i still have fresh memories of thessaloniki in 2003, which i remember was a great summit.
mr obermayr, i apologise because i misread the line. it was a minute and a half, but i have given you extra seconds. colleagues, i need to announce at this moment, bearing in mind that we have a long list on this item and we are behind schedule, that from now on i will not take any blue cards.
madam president, the attack on afrin has reopened a serious dilemma. a nato member state, our military ally, is committing violence against the kurdish national minority on its own territory and against kurds on foreign soil, in syria and iraq. the dilemma is not only holding back the resolution of the middle east conflict, but also the continuation of the eu's constructive relations with turkey. it also threatens the eu-turkey refugee agreement. the resulting dilemma takes on absurd to picturesque proportions. the united states, turkey's strongest nato ally, is dropping munitions and weapons on the military units of the ypg armed forces, who are now fighting turkey in rojava and afrin. the us air force has directly undertaken air training of ypg ground operations. furthermore, unlike turkey, the united states does not consider the ypg to be terrorists. solving the dilemma of who our ally is in afrin requires a great deal of diplomatic skill. but it also requires the ability to answer the question of whether turkey's brutal human rights violations are acceptable at the cost of weakening the military alliance. i recently visited rojava and the kurdish ypg. i saw how bravely the kurds captured isis's capital city of raqqa, how bravely they started to rebuild the city of kobani, which was destroyed by isis. they are allies of our american allies. we can't throw them overboard just to maintain the status quo between nato and turkey.
we all agree, madam president, that turkey should remain a partner of the european union, but that the situation there today is very serious, sad and alarming. addressing migration, security, counter-terrorism are priorities for turkey as well as for the european union. it is important to appreciate the way turkey has dealt with refugees in terms of their reception and integration, and also that the eu-turkey agreement is working in my view. probably also because it's in the interest of the turks themselves. dialogue with president erdogan's regime is almost impossible at this time. the president and his administration are acting authoritatively. could this be the same president who has embraced european values? who was seeking to join the european union? how is it possible that today he violently silences the opposition, persecutes journalists, academics, persecutes anyone who calls for human rights? the list of journalists being persecuted in turkey is growing. more than a dozen journalists and media workers will face trial in turkey in february alone. i am personally following the case of mr. akin atalaya, the executive director of the opposition newspaper cumhuriyet. he has already been in prison for 14 months on charges of allegedly supporting terrorism and his trial bears all the hallmarks of a politically ordered trial. i am very worried that the list of persecuted journalists will be expanded again in connection with the military operation in northern syria. according to the information available, the turkish prime minister gave the media precise instructions on how to report. he said journalists should ignore foreign media reports that this is an attack against the kurds. ladies and gentlemen, we should seek to re-establish dialogue with the turkish parliament and government. we must not turn our backs on the millions of people who believe in democratic values. and they want to live in a country where the rule of law is respected and an independent judiciary is established. european funds should also be used for this purpose.
mr president, madam high representative, these early elections are yet another example that confirms what we all already know: dialogue is a sham of the regime, and maduro has no intention of leaving power or restoring democracy in his country. even more serious than the undermining of democracy are the various allegations of crimes against humanity committed by this dictatorship against its own people. we cannot allow this situation to continue. the european union has finally taken a firm and necessary position by imposing selective sanctions. we can't go back to the past. we need to strengthen our position and do more. i therefore ask you and the council to extend the list of sanctioned persons to their relatives. i ask that you start exploring additional measures like an oil embargo and a ban on doing business with the state oil company. and i ask the international criminal court to investigate all these crimes committed in venezuela. too much time passed before the first measures against the regime were approved. and we cannot wait another three years for new measures to be implemented. we must be prepared to take another step in the face of a situation that is getting worse every day. venezuela has been living in hell for far too long and it is our responsibility, our duty, to do everything we can to help them.
mr. chairman, when we were negotiating this resolution, we agreed that it would not be a political statement. that it would be a resolution on an agency that is international, that is doing a great job, and we want to continue that work in a way. it's not on the israeli side, it's not on the palestinian side. it's on the people's side. ordinary people suffering from a war conflict, a conflict that should have been resolved. yes, my speakers here have mentioned several times that the conflict is dragging on. the palestinians were on the losing side, the israelis were on the winning side, but we're not the ones here to judge the conflict. we're the ones who have to deal with this. and the situation was such that one of the biggest donors said that he would consider continuing to contribute the funds that he had been contributing to date. and here, ladies and gentlemen, is a very important thing. let's see how the european union reacted. she said, "it's none of our business". no, she didn't. the european union said, "how can we help?" she also told the member states: 'member states, let's get more involved together in tackling this situation.' and here i want to thank you, commissioner, because you are one of the engines of this aid. you're one of those who's looking for a way out of this, i would say, rather hopeless situation. as an mep, i have visited refugee camps, i don't know if it can be called refugee, if someone over 50 or 60 years old can be a refugee. but we just visited them. and these places are what they seem. and our aid should go to the poorest, to those who don't have education, and i think the european union's response to that is very positive. we're looking for a solution. and that solution is not easy. and that, my colleagues, is what we should be looking at. see what it's going to look like in the future. that is the european union's solution.
mr president, after brexit we have to adjust the composition of the european parliament and i am in favour of reducing the seats to 705 and of redistributing the 27 seats among those member states which have so far had fewer seats than they should have had. but what i fundamentally disagree with is the transnational candidacy lists. it looks tempting. the citizens will have two votes. but i think it's a dangerous game that we're not ready for. it is already difficult for our citizens to identify with the elected representatives in the european parliament. moreover, it is clear that the multinational charters favour the big countries. campaigning for transnational candidates could lead to manipulation and simplification. we experienced it in the last presidential campaign. fellow citizens, it took four words on billboards for a populist candidate to win by a landslide. if our aim is to bring the european union closer to its citizens, the transnational charters are going in the opposite direction. i'm sorry about that. (the rapporteur has agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i didn't hear a question, i heard fear. madam president, i am not afraid, i am not afraid at all, and i do not consider myself your opponent, because i want the european parliament to be democratically elected. i want everyone involved. so that all citizens know who and why they're voting. and that's the problem. if there's one thing i'm afraid of, it's populism, it's simplification, it's the campaigns that we're having, unfortunately. one brexit was enough for me, madam speaker.
madam president, as regards the shape of the european parliament after the uk leaves, i am very surprised that the european parliament does not simply cross off those seats. i do not understand why they are being redistributed among the other member states and why only part of them are being redistributed, while the other part is to remain in some kind of reserve. the most sensible thing to do would be to cut them out, to reduce the number of meps. nothing would have happened. it would save money. secondly, however, i must commend the european parliament today for at least not having accepted the idea of transnational, i.e. pan-european, lists of candidates in the 2019 elections. finally, some people here have perhaps understood that there is no such thing as a pan-european people or nation, that we do not need a pan-european list of candidates, and that meps are bound to their national states and are supposed to represent those states.
madam president, i rarely agree with my predecessor, but i think he was right about some things. i think that the creation of a transnational candidate at a time when we are always responsible in our own states and the member actually comes from a country with some experience is just nonsense, and i completely agree that the way the seats are allocated and distributed among members of parliament from the uk today is another nonsense. i have been involved in these debates on several occasions and i think that the division is simply not fair and there will be a number of states and members who will feel unjustly discriminated against by this decision. so i could not vote for this report, even though i am a federalist and even though i would like us to cooperate more in europe.
madam president, this resolution is really about how the seats occupied by our british colleagues will be distributed after brexit. i have considered how to deal with this matter and i accept to some extent that there has been some damage in the past on the part of some member states, so although it would probably be easy to cut these seats, i have been inclined to think that it is good to leave here a first reserve for the newly acceding member states, which i firmly hope will join the european union. and second, to address these harms from the past. finally, i voted in favour of this report because the single european candidate for 2019 has so far been rejected. in my opinion, the system would be very complicated at this point. it requires even more knowledge and awareness of the electorate, and i think it is important to first inform the electorate very thoroughly about this possibility and to have a debate with them. so i was very pleased that this was rejected. that's why i endorsed the report.
madam president, i supported this report, and i think that the direction of increasing voter awareness of the european elections is the right one, and that of course includes highlighting the issue with the top candidates. it's certainly important that voters see who's running so they can support, so that there can be a very fierce but fair election contest. i understand that and i'm happy to support it. on the other hand, i would be a little careful to weaken the european council's right to propose the candidate altogether. i think it may not be entirely given that the winner of the european elections from the point of view of these top candidates must be automatically nominated by the european council. that's why i'd be here, to keep the precaution in place. and the second reason is also clear. marginalisation of some member states may occur. it is therefore important that all find their voice and their voice in the european council's decision-making.
madam president, i supported this motion for a resolution because i consider this practice to be truly unacceptable, a completely unworthy position of women in our society. therefore, it should be condemned to the fullest extent, of course, it is an infringement of human rights, there is no doubt about it. no consent is given in a manner that is completely free and fully informed. if any of the women undergo such a procedure purely and freely, that's probably their business, but the involuntary consents, that's, i think, a completely unacceptable practice. what i would like to stress, however, is that the report states, i suspect in paragraph 13, that this practice is intended to result in the automatic granting of the right to asylum. i think that's a radical and oversimplifying approach. i did not support this amendment.
madam president, inequality is nothing new. but we have to be concerned that in times of economic growth, inequality doesn't decrease. for example, while digitalisation creates new opportunities, it is necessary to invest in and develop new skills to take advantage of them. then there's a growing gulf between those who take advantage of new opportunities and those who just can't do it without help. that's why we need to talk about inclusion, about quality education for all. it is more difficult for young people to find a place on the labour market if they have no experience. new, non-standard forms of work such as crowdworking, while allowing flexibility to work for those who otherwise would not be able to work, also create a category of second-class workers without social protection. the solution to inequality is not to introduce a so-called guaranteed income. one of the reasons is that it lacks the motivating element. at the european union level, programmes that address the issue of access to education are helping. reducing inequality means, first and foremost, increasing opportunities. and we have the opportunity to strengthen the erasmus+ programme, which is still exclusive, there are still very few young people who get to participate in this programme. so if we want to reduce inequality, we also need to increase the budget for erasmus+, which allows for funding projects to modernise education, emphasising apprenticeships and practical and entrepreneurial skills.
in writing. the eurozone crisis, brexit, the refugee crisis and other crises of recent years have exposed the eu's weaknesses and reduced our citizens' trust in the eu. this trust needs to be restored in time before serious irreversible damage occurs. i believe that the reform of the electoral legislation should contribute to a greater interest in voting, to a greater participation. the amendments proposed are aimed at increasing transparency and identification with european political parties and their candidates. if we want to reduce the democratic deficit, then we must strive for greater voter turnout and understanding of the european elections. for example, in the czech republic, the voter turnout in the 2014 european parliament elections was only 19.5%, which is more than two thirds lower than in the last elections to the czech chamber of deputies (60.84%). i'm sure other states have similar problems. i agree with the proposals to make european parties more visible, such as the proposal to include the logo of european parties on the ballot paper. the awareness of european parties in the member states is very limited and there is therefore a need for european parties to be more visible and to penetrate the consciousness of voters.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – mr president, let me start by saying that the european investment bank (eib) is the institution that helped us overcome post—crisis problems and it has for sure a firm place in our future. in doing so, there are two issues that i want to highlight from the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ). first of all, all public support – even from the development bank – is not free of risk. here, especially, i am talking about the risk of crowding—out private financing. we, as well as the eib, must be fully aware of this risk and try to minimise it. secondly, the eib is a bank. banking is about money and risks; about finding the right balance. too low a risk means limited impact. too high a risk can lead to losses in capital. too narrow a focus means that we will be missing some targets. too many mandates at the same time can lead to fragmentation and to high costs. we should keep finding the right balance and finding the trade—offs, to be focused and efficient in the work and the eib. this is the way to ensure that the eib will serve good purposes for the future.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, this has been a very interesting debate and also very encouraging for me, because we have to focus more on the support of civil society and ngos, not only in the member states, which have been mentioned here, but in the whole of europe. in real democracy, people are encouraged and invited to participate in decision-making. a healthy, self-confident society welcomes people to have a say. in a fake democracy, people are invited once every four years to come and cast their vote, to elect, and to be silent in between. this is the real threat to democracy, and i think that it is our role to – fight against it is maybe too activist – but to be very vigilant, to monitor the situation and to give support where it is needed, because silencing and shrinking civil society is one of the parameters of populism. populists hate civil society because they love a strong state and, unfortunately, in part of our society there is now the demand for an ever-stronger state, because there are people who promise they will do everything to facilitate things for you, to guarantee you a happy life. they want everything but critical thinking from the people. unfortunately, online and digital development is not helping. we should analyse this phenomenon more, and what it means, because when i speak to the courageous people of the ngos, they say hate speech online is something which is censoring and silencing them. it is not only journalists, but also a large number of people working for ngos, publicly-known people, who are affected by hatred online. it is a factor which we should think about and maybe do something about. there is also the factor of societal changes, which we see in relation to the development of the digital area. i have nothing against digital development. there are many positive things in this respect, but what we see is that the populists like this sphere because they have an easily manipulated crowd. again, this is something which goes directly against civil society, and i think that we should analyse the reasons for shrinking space for civil society, react appropriately and find remedies. i do not think that the only possible remedy we have in hand is infringement against a state where we see that the law is deviating from how the legislation should look. of course, we are monitoring the situation in hungary and in poland. today we discussed romania. we are monitoring some other member states where there are worrying developments – not only in the east of the eu; i must make this clear. maybe the approach of the commission might be seen as pretty legalistic, that we wait for a bad law to be enacted before we act, but we have to be very careful here and maybe trust more the people in europe that there are enough democrats who will not be silenced so easily. we have to be careful and we have to support civil society by means other than infringements directed against the laws in some member states. how can we do it? the fund – i am very much for creating such a fund. we are now launching a feasibility study where we want to map the various funding instruments in the member states, to fill the gap and not to duplicate or do something which would not be systemic and transparent enough. i also have an expert meeting, and i invite those who are interested in this issue to participate in this debate, because i think that it should be our common work. let me conclude by speaking about big money, which is also now in debates such as the multiannual financial framework (mff) after 2020. here we have a great chance to open better and easier possibilities for the ngos to get funding. i am not so sure about opening the special chapter in mff which was, i think, the proposal of mr boni. i think that we should deliberately and thoroughly analyse the possibility of opening the space for ngos, who in many cases substitute the tasks of the state while being miserably paid. we have to change this situation. we see one year of financing, so the ngos invest 90% of their initiatives in collecting or seeking money, instead of doing the core thing. we also have to look into the rules for financing. we will hear more and more about the need to simplify the rules for the new mff. whenever i hear politicians, including myself, speaking about simplification, i start to fear we will complicate it more. now we have to manage to simplify the rules, especially for the small-scale projects, not to allow again a system where you have to invest as much effort into getting eur 100 000 as eur 5 million. the system and the rules must be proportionate. eu funding is my hobby. i could continue, but i will spare you. thank you very much, and let us work together to stop the shrinking of space for civil society. it is vital for europe and it is vital for all democrats in europe.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, first of all i would like to respond to the question from ms sophia in ‘t veld. i would like to underline that i speak on behalf of the presidency of the council and therefore in the name of all its members, and for this reason it is not for the presidency to comment on particular subjects related to the member states. but what i can underline is that the council shares the view of the european parliament that civil society plays a vital role in our societies, and – as you said – it is an essential part of the system of the checks and balances. in 2017, the council encouraged the member states to promote eu citizenship and the values and rights attached to it, involving as far as possible civil society – it was underlined. secondly, i would like also to conclude by saying that an empowered and resilient civil society in all its diversity is a crucial component and voice, as mentioned by some of you, of any democracy. ensuring that civil society has sufficient space to operate in support and protection of fundamental rights in the european union remains a common endeavour for the european institutions and the member states.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on – the question for oral answer (o-000102/2017) by agnieszka kozłowska-rajewicz, barbara matera, dubravka šuica, elissavet vozemberg-vrionidi, teresa jiménez-becerril barrio and rosa estaràs ferragut, on behalf of the ppe group, iratxe garcía pérez and soraya post, on behalf of the s&d group, arne gericke, on behalf of the ecr group, malin björk, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, terry reintke and ernest urtasun domènech, on behalf of the verts/ale group, angelika mlinar, izaskun bilbao barandica and hilde vautmans, on behalf of the alde group, to the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy: situation of women human rights defenders and their support by the eu (2017/2531(rsp)) (b8-0004/2018), – the question for oral answer (o-000101/2017) by agnieszka kozłowska-rajewicz, barbara matera, dubravka šuica, elissavet vozemberg-vrionidi, teresa jiménez-becerril barrio and rosa estaràs ferragut, on behalf of the ppe group, iratxe garcía pérez and soraya post, on behalf of the s&d group, malin björk, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, arne gericke, on behalf of the ecr group, terry reintke and ernest urtasun domènech, on behalf of the verts/ale group, angelika mlinar, izaskun bilbao barandica and hilde vautmans, on behalf of the alde group, to the commission: situation of women human rights defenders and their support by the eu (2017/2531(rsp)) (b8-0003/2018).
for the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, when it comes to human rights defenders, both men and women deserve our support. there is no gender difference in their bravery, their effort, or the suffering they often endure. i want to talk about women human rights defenders because they are naturally more vulnerable physically and psychologically. and they're also more sensitive to certain topics. it's no coincidence that the first pakistani woman to win a nobel prize was a young malala in 2014, who almost lost her life defending the right of girls to education at the age of 15. she saw education as a defense against radical ideas. in 2013, she was awarded the sakharov prize by the european parliament. while we do not have to look for women activists and human rights defenders in third countries, there are much more serious problems that women are facing outside the eu. as a successful example of their struggle, i would cite saudi arabia. thanks to the efforts of women, there are relaxations in laws, such as in guardianship. women no longer have to ask for their husband's permission and approval when they go to the doctor. in fact, from june of this year, women will be able to drive themselves. they fought it out. i see the call for civil society as a necessity. it can also be helpful in this regard by monitoring and promoting concrete examples of human rights defenders. mr president, let me mention one other human rights defender who cannot be overlooked, and that is mother teresa. she didn't talk about human rights, but she gave her whole life to them.
before proceeding with catch-the-eye, i must say that i am glad to chair the session on this item, although i regret that i could not be in the chamber – and, indeed, take the floor – because i think that the defence of human rights among women is something special, as it is so very difficult. also, as vice-president responsible for human rights, i would love to speak on the item and pay tribute not just to those whose names have been mentioned but also to many, many others. catch—the—eye procedure
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this has been a very useful exchange, and i thank the honourable members for their interventions. from this debate, i conclude that we all recognise the vital importance of women human rights defenders and share common commitments to help protect them and promote their work. we are living in extremely difficult times for civil society and human rights defenders all around the world. we are collectively facing a situation where the space for civil society is shrinking. however, let me be clear that the european union will never leave human rights defenders alone, and we will continue to work together with you and civil society to defend human rights defenders around the world. may i close by signalling once again my appreciation of parliament’s role in keeping this important issue on the agenda.
commissioner, thank you for staying with us until this late hour. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, commissioner, hundreds of petitions to the european parliament, a number of national initiatives, at least one oral question every year. that shows the urgency of the problem. professor merrow, a chronobiologist, told us here in the european parliament hearing that 20% of the population has health problems, and 80% of the population doesn't believe that 20% have health problems. another professor of chronobiology, till roenneberg of munich, tells us that the social jet lag that this time change causes leads to an increase in smoking, an increase in alcohol and caffeine consumption, depression, obesity, type 2 diabetes, metabolic problems. it is estimated that both direct and indirect costs amount to up to 1% of gdp. the uncertainty is why the regime still exists. energy savings have not occurred and there is even no evidence of increased sports activity due to daylight saving time. i am glad that you have stated that the commission is revising this directive, which means that mr beleta's amendments are superfluous. on behalf of the 20% i ask the commission to take legislative action.
madam president, we have a heated debate at home and in the european parliament about the time change, but citizens should know that we do not spend more than an hour on this in our plenary session. because we're spending a lot more time on economic, social and security issues. but time-shifting is a burning issue for a large number of citizens, and it is our duty to address their challenge. so i think we need to look at the fact that energy savings have not been demonstrated, but that the time change has an impact on the health of citizens. of course, there are people who want to spend more time outdoors in the summer doing leisure activities, and i'm one of those people, because i also like to play tennis until nine o'clock in the evening in the summer, but nobody gives me that time in the morning. so i am in favour of making health the main argument and supporting a resolution calling for the abolition of time and calling on the commission to act.
for the alde group. madam president, i find it unacceptable that an organisation which defends human rights should face attacks, prosecutions, imprisonment or, in the extreme, death for its work. this is especially true if the organization is dedicated to honoring the memory of victims of crimes committed by the communist regime. in the case of chechnya, it is striking in this regard how often representatives of civil society are accused, for example, of drug offences. it is our duty to draw attention to this situation and it is appropriate to demand the immediate release of mr titiyev and all other political prisoners, whether they are detained in chechnya or in russia. it will soon be 30 years since the first war in chechnya, and sadly, people in this country continue to live in fear and repression because of their beliefs.
madam president, in 2009, the european parliament awarded the sakharov prize to the russian memorial. his representative at the time would be human rights defender sergei kovaljov. nine years later, another representative of the memorial, oyub titiev, was arrested and imprisoned under false pretenses. let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, of the wings of sergei kovalev: "violation of human rights cannot be the internal affair of any state". it's true today, it's true for ojuba titiyev as well. i would like to remind you of the words of another great man, the czech writer karel čapek: "it must be constantly repeated that crime is crime and we must not allow the moral order to be suspended for a time". and what chapak said applies to oyub titiev, and it applies to the criminal regime of the so-called chechen president ramzan kadyrov, and it applies, after all, to the entire imperial policy of the kremlin today.
madam president, the situation of human rights defenders in russia is getting worse. we must remember the memorial, which has a distinguished record of human rights work. russia needs to know that we are following the case of oyub titiev and will hold accountable all those who have so outrageously intimidated and persecuted mr. titiev and the memorial organization. we strongly urge his immediate release, the withdrawal of the false charges and an investigation into all forms of intimidation that memorial is subjected to in chechnya and elsewhere. we have nowhere to retreat, these are the lives of specific brave people, and even if we leave the value debate about human rights, the statistics directly show that democracy and human rights are directly linked to well-being. so ordinary russians should clean up their own messes in their own interests.
madam president, i too join my colleagues in objecting to the fundamental inadmissibility of the death penalty and in citing those specific cases. i'd like to focus my minute on something else, and that's the role of diplomacy. i think it is within the diplomatic possibilities of the european union institutions to put substantial pressure not only on the egyptian government but also to open up this issue of the inadmissibility of the death penalty in the international arena. unfortunately, we do not have many partners in the international arena on this issue, and i think it would be appropriate for the european union to take this issue forward in a fundamental way. and then i would also emphasize a certain theory of conditionality for the continuation of cooperation and support. i think that in this fundamental demand, which is being made across all political groups, we must also support those states which show some willingness to cooperate on the question of the inadmissibility of the death penalty. and then it should be reflected in the support we give them.
madam president, it is estimated that there are some 30,000 children living in orphanages in haiti. but what few people know is that 80 percent of these children have at least one parent. what's the reason for the kids being there? the main reasons are economic. this country, as mentioned here, has been through an earthquake. it's been hit by two major hurricanes in the past year, and a lot of parents just don't have the money to take care of their kids. and here is our task as meps, europeans, the european union, to appeal to the haitian authorities. first of all, the government to start doing something about this situation. the commission has also provided information on the situation of the union industry in the prc, including the findings of the investigation. and so i'm glad that we have a very powerful commissioner here who can do something about this situation, and i believe that he will help the haitian people to change this situation.
madam president, i would like to say that it is a vicious circle of poverty, corruption, lack of education, lack of paid work, tragic health care and, in fact, a dysfunctional state that is in ruins as a result of multiple natural disasters. of course, slavery is fundamentally unacceptable, whatever it is called, but in haiti, there seems to be some direct connection between poverty and slavery. i agree with mrs luck that the government is responsible for this situation, but i am not sure whether this should lead us to impose sanctions or even to open the question, because those who will be affected by these sanctions will be the children in the first place. and i think the only way to do that is to really be more vigilant about the money that we send to haiti, to work with independent ngos on this issue, and to really be more vigilant about that money, because that's the only way we can actually bring some benefit to those groups.
mr president, i have always been a supporter of turkey, including its attempt to join the european union, but i have to say that even i am gradually changing my mind because what is going on in turkey these days is simply crossing a red line. we see that gradually democracy in this country is being curbed. we see political pressure on free media, on the judiciary, on state administration, on the school system and universities. we see various strange conspiracy theories being spread around and we see also a gradual departure from the secular character of the state. i think that it is time, therefore, to call particularly on the ruling party to stop this and therefore such a resolution is fully justifiable, and i supported it.
mr. president, the situation in venezuela is serious, it deserves our attention, it deserves our criticism. we have, after all, commented on the state of human rights and democracy in various countries. as for venezuela, we have here an exemplary example of the collapse of real socialism, or the latin american version of it. the collapse of the nationalized economy and the collapse of central management. and we also have an example of a certain hypocrisy, especially on the left of the political spectrum of this parliament, which, as i remember, was very critical of the situation in colombia, because it was a center-right government, so colombia was bombarded from different political positions. there was an attempt to block even the negotiation or ratification of the free trade agreement with colombia and now all of a sudden, when we have a similar case here in venezuela, the european left is silent in this parliament. i think it's a little hypocritical to have to measure everyone with the same yardstick.
thank you, although it was not on venezuela.
mr. chairman, the reason i became the negotiator of this agreement was to remove what my mother said in front of the speaker. to politicize this whole thing. this is not a fight between unrwa, this organization, this is not a fight between israel and palestine, this is not a fight between the european union and the united states, this is about helping people who need it. but we must also claim this organization. we have to make it clear that we will not tolerate the need for textbooks to teach how to attack israel, and we also have to say that we will not support any schools that are named after terrorists. this is not a political thing. this is a humanitarian matter and i hope that after this resolution the european parliament will continue to see it that way.
mr president, i have supported the approach of the part of the european parliament which thinks it is good to introduce only one time, so that there is no alternation between summer and winter time. i believe that in a time when even the experts are clearly saying that time-shifting has no economic benefits, to maintain time-shifting at a time when it is causing problems for certain groups of the european population, the elderly, the sick, the young, i think it is losing its meaning. i therefore think it is good that we have adopted a resolution today, albeit in a softer form, and it would be good for the european commission to deal with this and to really preserve in europe at a certain point in time only one time that will not cause problems for any group of our citizens and will not even cause problems for certain species of farm animals.
mr president, i am usually very critical of the european union, but on this subject i must say that the european parliament adopted a resolution today which actually opens the way to deregulation on the subject of the changeover of summer and winter time. interestingly, russia abolished the summer-winter time seven years ago. if we hurry, and i understand that in the european union everything takes longer, our delay against russia will not be so great. if we agree that the changeover should be abolished, then i am very much in favour of abolishing winter time. to keep summer time permanently for the european union.
mr. chairman, i would like to remind you that i first encountered this initiative at a simple baker's in a small village near chrudimi. his name was pecka, the baker. and that's when petr pithart promised him in his election campaign that if he supported him in the second round, he would push for this change in the summer and winter time. unfortunately, that's not what happened. then peter schiller started promoting it and it eventually made it into our program. i don't think today's vote is going to be crucial in any way. but i think it's a good feeling to just change the established routine of changing summer and winter time, which has no economic or other significance. and i think it doesn't matter if it's summer or winter time. i think that for those of us who voted for this resolution, the thing that bothers us most is that the time is changing. and hopefully, we'll live to see that cancellation.
that concludes the explanations of vote.
i also want to make a brief comment on the informal meeting of the european council of 27 leaders. we're getting used to brexit, unfortunately. i agree with the vice-president that the priorities for the next eu financial framework need to be clearly stated. these priorities are to be security, to address migration, and i am very pleased that the european council has signed up to erasmus+, because education, youth mobility, that is the future of the eu. also, the condition for turkey to be able to hold the negotiations in varna next month is that turkey's activities in the mediterranean and in syria must be stopped and human rights should also be added, because the imprisonment of journalists and academics is unacceptable to us. if it is a spitzenkandidaten process, then i believe that the agreement is more than an automatic rule.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i see a broad consensus between the commission and a majority of this parliament, on both the institutional issues and the issue of the multiannual financial framework, so there is no need for me to go into that right now. i need to react briefly to the many comments that were made on the issue of brexit, especially because of the decision today by the commission on the draft treaty. it is fair to say, from my perspective, that brexit is a decision taken by the british people that needs to be respected by all of us. the right is there of a member state to decide to leave. at the same time, i shan’t hide the fact that this saddens me greatly, and i also do not want to hide the fact that if they change their minds and want to come back to the european union, i think we would all welcome them warmly back into the european union family. i insist on that, because i think there is not one person present in this august forum, including the people up there, who has never changed their minds in their lives. everybody changes their minds sometimes, and i think that deserves just as much respect as when people decide that they want to go along one course. but i do think there is one responsibility nobody can shy away from, whatever your position is on brexit, and that is to explain in great detail the consequences of brexit. that is the reason why the commission translated the decisions from december into concrete text on concrete issues, and we will be putting it before your parliament very soon. i also think that those who championed brexit and are very vocal about that have a responsibility to explain to their constituents why it is going to be such a tremendous success. it is just too easy to then invent a situation which makes it seem as though we were there to punish them. it is not our fault that things are not working out. it is not our fault that you said ‘we are shackled to a corpse’, but now the corpse seems to be doing much better than you are. that is our fault? that is because these europeans are being so nasty to us. stop it. take responsibility for your own position. explain to your voters what you want from brexit and then face the consequences if everything you have promised doesn’t work out. we will negotiate in a faithful, honest way, because brexit will do harm. it will do harm to the uk. it will do harm to europe, and we have a collective responsibility to make sure that we do as little harm as possible.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
in writing. – the european council discussed important topics for its future seeking to find common ground, acceptable for all. we shouldn’t be divided on issues where we should be united. tackling effects of the migration crisis is our common endeavour. we have to allocate resources in the financial framework which would help us to tackle migratory challenges. these resources, nevertheless, shouldn’t be unduly mixed with other european issues, such as cohesion policy and structural funds in general. these have been created to underpin a strong european economy and cohesion between member states within the single market. creating undue linkages with other sectorial agenda would compromise their effectiveness and added value. this does not mean conditionalities shouldn’t be put in place. the rule of law is a basic prerequisite not only for participating in the european project but also in the common market, and they could be included in one way or another in close linkage with the spending of the budget. this does not mean either that we shouldn’t fight to have resources to address migratory pressures. on the contrary, these are needed. but resources to address such pressures should stay transparently separated to be able to withstand migratory challenges effectively and in a united way.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the commission decision to activate article 7(1) teu as regards the situation in poland (2018/2541(rsp)). i would like to inform you that there will be no catch-the-eye procedure and no blue cards will be accepted.
today we discussed the commission's proposal to activate article 7 of the eu treaty against poland. i would stress that this article has never been used before in the history of the eu and could be a dangerous precedent. i think that the situation in poland and the ongoing reforms, for example in the judicial system, may not be to our liking and are probably not very democratic either. but to threaten a member state with the loss of its voting rights in the council or with even stricter sanctions for its national reforms is wrong at a time when the eu is in deep crisis and we need to be united. although i don't identify with all the changes and reforms that are taking place in poland, i couldn't support the proposal.
i congratulate my colleague pilar ayus and the shadow rapporteurs on the result, because the text presented is in many respects clearer and more consistent than the text of the current regulation. i am satisfied that the maximum quantities of sugar and sweeteners that can be added to spirit drinks are fixed, as the maximum sugar content was not fixed in the original regulation and this is clearly a significant improvement. from the point of view of my country, i am particularly satisfied that the exemption from the production of plum has been maintained, because the plum produced in the czech republic with the addition of alcohol has remained in the draft regulation in the same wording as the existing one, which is clearly the right decision. i would recommend voting against amendments 27, 28. we are of the opinion that the status quo is the possibility of using beer alcohol in alcoholic beverages and spirits, i.e. it is better not to expand the raw materials from which the alcohol can be produced.
so after 10 years, we have a new regulation on the table that concerns spirits, and i appreciate the changes that simplify the rules. i think it is right that the ethyl alcohol produced in the production of non-alcoholic beer should also be used in the production of spirits. the rules need to be adapted to the new reality, and that is the increased production of non-alcoholic beer. there is no substantive reason why producers should be restricted in the disposal of residual ethyl alcohol. that is why, unlike some of my colleagues, i support the amendments that make it possible. exports could also be jeopardised by a change in the language regime, which would restrict the use of a geographical indication for third countries for exports in the language of those third countries. i will therefore also support the amendment in this area and the protection of the traditional recipe for producers and consumers should also apply. the positive thing for the czech republic is that the conditions for plum will not change.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 1 march 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by frank engel, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu in 2016 (2017/2125(ini)) (a8—0025/2018).
member of the commission. first, let me say hello to our countrymen who are, according to my information, on the balcony, good evening, good health. yes, i am a politician after several years. but to be serious, for this is a very serious topic that we are going to discuss here today. first of all, let me start my contribution by strongly condemning the shocking murder of two innocent young people, one of whom was a brave journalist. this is not just an attack on people, it is an attack on freedom of speech and on democracy and our values, and i strongly believe that the slovak authorities, perhaps in cooperation with the european agencies, europol and eurojust, will find and punish the perpetrators so that we can see that justice works and justice lives in slovakia and in the european union. now let me come back to the report and start by thanking the rapporteur, mr engel, for drafting it. this is a very comprehensive report which touches upon a number of issues that are very relevant to the current context. first, let me highlight the crucial importance of upholding eu values, including the rule of law and the rights enshrined in the charter of fundamental rights. i assure you that the commission is using all the means at its disposal to promote and uphold the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. this includes the application of the rule of law framework and the launching of infringement proceedings when needed, as well as triggering the mechanisms of article 7 of the treaty where necessary. in line with its communication on the enforcement of eu law, the commission has begun to pursue a strategic approach with regard to infringement proceedings, in particular when respect for the eu charter of fundamental rights is at stake. the commission has initiated infringement proceedings to fight a key challenge, the segregation of roma children in education, which is explicitly raised in the report. the commission has mobilised and aligned its targeted and mainstreamed policy and funding instruments to promote inclusive reforms of public policies. on the rule of law, as announced in the 2018 work programme, the commission will, towards the end of this year, present an initiative to strengthen its enforcement within the eu. secondly, you have raised the issue of the shrinking space for civil society in europe. within the last month, the commission has strongly affirmed the importance it attaches to the existence of a vibrant and free civil society and to regular and transparent engagement with civil society. we are monitoring developments at national level and will not hesitate to act when measures are taken in violation of member states' obligations under the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights just as we did in hungary's case in december 2017, when we initiated proceedings in the court of justice concerning the hungarian law on foreign-funded ngos. we are also considering how to further support and empower civil society actors to help them perform their role and build resilience, encompassing that subject within the broader discussion on the next multiannual financial framework. third and finally, the report very much underlines the need to take action against racism, intolerance, disinformation and toxic narratives, which are shrinking the space for well-informed democratic discussions in the public sphere and polarizing our societies. we couldn't agree more. the commission is leading the work on countering the increasingly worrying phenomenon of illegal online hate speech. just this morning we have adopted a recommendation on measures to effectively tackle illegal content online. in this proposal we strike the right balance between the need to take effective measures against illegal content and ensuring that we can address the special challenges of terrorist content without stifling innovation or the exploitation of business opportunities offered in the online world. the recommendation recognises that the need for measures may vary depending on the types of illegal content and combines the need for effective notice and action procedures with strong safeguards on over-removal and caution in areas where contextualisation is needed to determine the illegality of content when automated means of detection are used without human intervention. the particular needs and urgencies relate to tackling terrorist content. the recommendation sends a strong signal to the industry on our expectations and keeps up pressure through the possibility of regulatory action. we are continuing to work intensively with member states and civil society to step up the implementation of eu law on the ground, combat racism and xenophobia and ensure that prompt investigation, prosecution and proportionate punishment become a reality in member states. the fight against intolerance starts with civic education and a deeper understanding by public authorities and institutions of the reasons behind this engagement of citizens with values. this year we are particularly supporting initiatives to re-engage citizens in the eu democratic process, not least in anticipation of the 2019 european elections, and we need to work together on this endeavour.
looks like the czechs have the majority in the conference room for once.
i am personally concerned that this report misses a crucial point. it is of course good that we are dealing with minority issues, but we must not overlook the problems of the vast majority of europeans. we all know that most eu citizens are constantly worried about their family's financial stability, or are afraid of, struggle with, and are in debt. young couples don't know if they can afford to have a family of their own, young families with children don't know if they will ever be able to afford to live in their own homes, workers worry about their pensions, and pensioners are worried. these are the issues that we should be addressing and they are about basic human rights. in conclusion, i think it is necessary and allow me to mention the sad news from slovakia. the deaths of jan kuciak and martina kušnírová must be investigated as soon as possible so that we know the truth about this cowardly and heinous act. my condolences to the families of the victims.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 1 march 2018. written statements (rule 162)
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, last december for the first time the eu agreed on a list of tax havens. this is to be welcomed, and this is also thanks to the strong pressure from the european parliament for this list. since then, it has taken less than three months to clear almost half of the countries from the list. if such progress continues we will have an empty list by may and therefore all the work done. we will have eliminated all tax havens in the world. well done. i do not know why the member states were so afraid of such a magic list! but seriously, it does not look credible at all. we should be given detailed information about the criteria used to delist those countries and what they have committed to. we have heard that the council is seeking permission to apply transparency. we shall see what and when will be available. tomorrow, the ep will vote on the mandate for a new committee on financial crime, tax avoidance and tax evasion. this committee will carefully assess the methodology, the country-screening process and the impact of the eu list of non-cooperative jurisdictions for tax purposes, as well as the removal of countries from the list and measures adopted towards countries still listed. hopefully, the explanations member states give us will be more detailed and credible then the current ones.
madam president, and of course congratulations to the rapporteur and shadows, indeed the result is not bad at all. i specially welcome paragraph 33 calling for a ban of some systemic plant production products, including neonicotinoids. efsa has published an updated risk assessment today of three neonicotinoids – clothianidin, imidacloprid and thiamethoxam – that are currently subject to restrictions in the eu because they pose a threat to bees. the authority highlights that most studies show that neonicotinoids have a negative impact on bee health, from damaging their orientation capacity to impairing their reproductive ability. given the scientific evidence that clearly proves those substances are harmful to pollinators, i expect the member states to vote for a complete ban of neonicotinoids during the upcoming meeting of the paff committee on 24 march this year.
i would like to talk today about the controversy that may arise in the context of the election of the president of the european commission. the president of the european commission should be the main driver and connector, and this is what president tusk, juncker and czech prime minister babiš have said in recent days. the ep is pushing for the concept of top candidates, who should be those relevant to the nomination. for me, sometimes the ep pushes this issue in an unforgiving way. the european council shall assert its right of nomination, which is also in line with the text of the treaties in force. in my view, the treaties in force should be respected and a sane european council should propose a candidate who, together with the commission, can win the confidence of the ep. the role of the member states should be more crucial. the president of the european commission should be elected by the member states. i think that rather than go through another dispute, it would be better to respect our primary law.
i supported this proposal, although i must say that i too find it problematic to prescribe rules which are intended to have a uniform impact on a very limited market. it is indeed often a burden for small producers, for the local regional economy, for local producers and farmers. on the other hand, the purpose of the scheme is to prevent misleading practices in general, to ensure consumer protection and to prevent unfair competition. these are the values which i measured in my vote and in the end i decided to support this report, and therefore the draft legislation. it is very important to me that the rules on spirit drinks are applied uniformly and that this is accompanied by procedural rules on geographical indications. we have hops in the czech republic, for example, and we want to protect this raw material as well.
it is important to me that there is an exchange of information to prevent tax fraud. tax fraud is often carried out by white-collar criminals, very smart people who exploit every loophole, shift their taxable profits to tax havens, so the exchange of information is very important in this cross-border exchange. it is also important to preserve the transparency issue. however, i would certainly not be in favour of the unification of direct taxes, so as far as this report, this directive, is concerned, i could have supported it, because i support the prevention of tax evasion in different member states, but if the member states were to unify direct taxes, i would certainly be against it. in that sense, i could therefore support this proposal for a directive.
i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution. in my opinion, the rule of law, democracy, is not negotiable. it has clear rules democratic rule of law. i remember very well when we were discussing, many months ago, the situation in poland, in which the polish prime minister, who is no longer in office, was asked whether the polish government would respect the findings of the venice commission of the council of europe on the constitutionality of the proposed changes in the context of the dispute over the constitutional tribunal. the prime minister avoided a direct answer as to whether she would respect the opinion of the expert opinion of another organisation, the council of europe, not the eu. the conviction was absolutely devastating after the venice commission issued it, so i'm convinced that we should have common values, that it's crucial at least in those fundamentals. the rule of law is not a negotiation, and therefore i had no choice but to support this motion for a resolution.
i didn't vote for this report after all. however, i would like to thank my colleague, frank engel, for trying to keep the report on the ground and focusing on the essential issues of combating discrimination, intolerance, racism and violence of all kinds, and of course also putting the emphasis on protecting children online. the problem, however, is that the parts that propose greater support for sexual and reproductive rights are related to fundamental human rights. i also find problematic the proposals of the left that have finally been announced, which call for the general recognition of gay marriage. i have to say that i voted for the deletion of these parts, but we were in the minority and therefore i could not vote for this report in the end because i believe that these matters should be decided by the member states.
i would like to explain why i have tabled this report on the future of european beekeeping. for several reasons, bees and plant pollination in particular, are crucial for sustainable agricultural production. despite the fact that beekeeping products are in high demand in the eu. i believe that we must also focus on those problems which we can influence by appropriate measures at european level. this is mainly to identify cases of counterfeit honey, which cause great damage to european beekeepers and pose serious health risks to consumers. at the same time, the quantity of honey imported into the eu from china and third countries should be eliminated. in this context, i fully support the proposal to abolish the misleading labelling of eu and non-eu honey mixtures and replace it with a clear indication of the specific country of origin.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, my group has tabled a set of questions. unfortunately, we haven’t received sufficient responses to them from the commissioner and i hope that he will still go back to those four questions. you have argued that everything was in compliance with the rules: rules are one thing, the other is the impression. let me add a few more questions to what we originally tabled. i have no special information, everything i have comes from open sources, from the media. is it true that on 19 february, when heads of cabinet met to prepare a college meeting, no mention of the appointment was on the agenda or under any other business, while on 21 february it was there? and that the whole procedure for the appointment of the secretary-general took just nine minutes, where mr selmayr was first appointed deputy secretary-general, then the secretary-general of the european commission resigned, and then mr selmayr was appointed as the secretary-general? my second question: was he the only candidate, or were there more candidates? my third question, again from the media: is it true that the minutes of the 21 february commission meeting were amended to include a discussion about the merits of non-existent multiple candidates? mr commissioner, there is a lot of interest surrounding that appointment and i think that you should do your best to come out with something which is trustworthy, and you should avoid any feeling or any impression that it was a pre-prepared, politically motivated nomination. unfortunately, i don’t think that in this case you did your job perfectly.
ladies and gentlemen, trade agreements should lead to the achievement of the objectives of the european union and, of course, to respect for the values of the european union. the pursuit of economic interests must not come at the cost of abandoning the european values to which the european union subscribes. one of those values is the protection of human rights and the dignity of human life. the sad reality is that women are weaker than men in certain sectors and trade agreements could have a negative impact in these cases. i therefore consider it appropriate that the commission also assess the impact on the status of women in the context of the impact assessment. i welcome the appointment of a gender liaison officer within the directorate-general for trade and would also welcome greater involvement of women in the negotiation processes. i believe it is right that some issues, such as sexual and reproductive health, should remain a matter for member states and i reject any speculation about the impact of the european union's trade policy on women's sexual and reproductive health.
i am committed to preventing and combating violence against women and i know that there are countries that have difficulty protecting the dignity of women's lives, where violence against women is linked to historical and cultural traditions. it is for these countries that i see the istanbul convention as a very important instrument for preventing and combating violence. but i do not agree that this convention should be a stick to those countries that have decided to fight violence in a different way. for example, the czech republic has not yet ratified the istanbul convention, but it has had a law against domestic violence in place for 12 years. it was even initiated by my former party colleague, the deputy speaker of the house of representatives, jan kasal, in collaboration with the white circle of security. our legal system contains the crimes as defined by the istanbul convention. prevention, detection and assistance to victims of violence are all part of the work of governmental and non-governmental organisations. more important than ratifying the convention, in my opinion, is enforcing zero tolerance for violence in practice. we should be concerned with substance, not with the formal fulfilment of the ratification obligation. each eu country has committed itself to the eu charter of fundamental rights, which obliges member states to protect the human dignity and safety of all citizens.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the e-commerce of the 21st century is a beautiful combination of the free movement of goods and the freedom to provide services. this creates enormous opportunities, and it is important that it does so throughout the european union. we wanted to make sure that these opportunities are not just for large companies, large operators and large—scale platforms, but also for small retailers and small craft shops that can then rely on reliable and affordable services. so we have taken an important step in this direction, even though – if it were up to me – we would have gone even further. i am glad that the proposals that i made in terms of the scope – and that is single piece parcel services’ tariffs – has been taken on board, because that will in fact enable us to compare like with like. every single operator, regardless of size, will have to make his or her tariffs public, and they can then be independently reviewed, if need be, by national regulators. if anyone expected that parcels would be cheaper tomorrow, this is bad news, but we have made significant progress towards greater transparency, more competition and more clarity for consumers in the future. we have fallen short – and i am happy to say so – of price regulation, which was also in the air. i would like to thank the rapporteur, my colleagues and the shadow rapporteurs. i think that we should clearly vote ‘yes’ in favour in the coming hours.
mr president, if someone wants to send a parcel to another member state today, he may be unpleasantly surprised, either by the price he pays for the service or by the way his parcel is delivered. unfortunately, information on prices and delivery conditions is often unclear and incomplete. the european parliament's negotiators, led by the socialist rapporteur lucy anderson, made improvements during the trilogue with the council, for example on transparency of tariffs for consumers and businesses, or on the power of regulators to assess price inadequacy. i also consider it a success that the new rules will apply to all the major players in the parcel delivery industry, including online shopping. it is also important to consider the working conditions of the people who work in this sector. price competition cannot be to their detriment.
ladies and gentlemen, the systematic development of an intelligent transport system that enables the safe, smooth, economically balanced and environmentally friendly movement of people and goods is a major challenge for society today. the european union is striving to lead by example in this regard, especially when it comes to meeting international climate commitments and the internal objectives of the european union. i am very pleased that europe's galileo and egnos global satellite navigation systems, which have now reached such a high level of technological capacity, can help. in addition, we must not forget that 92% of road accidents are caused by human error and the use of cits technologies is important for the effective functioning of some driver assistance systems. the european strategy on interoperable intelligent transport systems has enormous potential, but privacy and data protection must be at the forefront and must be treated with the utmost care.
madam president, today marks the 19th anniversary of the eastward expansion of nato. on 12 march 1999, poland, hungary and the czech republic thus joined nato. for the first time in their independent history, these states had real security guarantees and could at the same time contribute to the collective security of a democratic world. but i am concerned to see nato politically weakened on both sides of the atlantic. i mean, in a europe that has had 70 years of peace, not only thanks to the european union, but also thanks to nato. nato is a stabilizer for the balkans, for the mediterranean, including the handling of the migration crisis, but also for relations between turkey and greece, for example, which could otherwise escalate into open conflict. in order to continue to fulfil its role, nato requires all its member states to fulfil their obligations, in particular to spend sufficient resources on defence. the european union and nato must cooperate as much as possible to strengthen security guarantees for europe and the world.
madam president, we have now reached the crucial point in negotiations. we all need to know, and especially businesses, under which terms we will be able to cooperate in the future. what is the best scenario? to keep the uk within the internal market to preserve most of the benefits that we have created with the uk together. the fact that the uk refuses that is a fatal mistake. any other option is simply worse and will build new barriers for eu companies, but also for british companies, and for some businesses, especially smes, this new situation will be very hard to cope with. the worst possible outcome is having absolutely no deal. it would not allow for any transitional period and it would just worsen our mutual relations. it would degrade the eu-uk partnership to a level inferior to what we currently have with turkey, or even with china, and i do not think either side wishes that.
madam president, i apologise for my naivety, but i must say i really expected this to be a political debate. i am sorry, ms panayotova, but with all due respect and sympathy to you, we have received a list of what is to be on the agenda. i would expect at least an attempt from the side of the president of the commission to say: these are the priorities, this is how we analyse the situation, the bottlenecks, this is what the ambition is, this is what the president of the european council and the presidency expects. of course, i know that you cannot go into detail, but not to give us any hint on any of the political issues is, i think, really a failure. no wonder, in fact, that the european council is at a standstill. we are not delivering. we have got issues such as the reform of the eu, greater efficiency, real issues of security, trade, other political sensitivities that we need to address. we are not delivering. this is something that we would like to address concretely in this house with the council. i do apologise, but this system, is in my opinion, unacceptable for the future. guy verhofstadt referred to the russian attack in the uk: i think it is an attack, and i would expect that the council would hint that this is to be on the agenda and will be debated, with concrete measures against the russians and concrete concessions vis-à-vis the citizens, the entrepreneurs, the scientists, etc. this is the kind of issue we want to debate and the way we want to debate it.
madam president, i am pleased to see that economic subjects form a big part of the council meeting agenda. after all, economic performance plays a very important role in the way that people perceive the functionality of the european union. i am especially pleased to see that tax issues are an informal part of the council meeting. i hope that not just digital taxation but also vat reform and ccctb will be discussed and we will get closer to their adoption. i call on the leaders of the member states to proceed and, if necessary, go to enhanced cooperation in the case of ccctb. secondly, i want to mention the energy union. after a very good commission proposal, short—term national interests, as well as the interests of some groups, could now weaken the result and this would be unfortunate. it would be a lost opportunity for europe and for our citizens. last but not least, i also want to mention the issue of trade, but instead of going into details, i will just declare my support for what president juncker said about this subject. i hope that we will achieve our goal, which is to support deferred and open trade globally.
madam president, i am convinced that the challenges facing the european union are indeed many. there are countless reasons, such as brexit, asylum and migration issues, the multiannual financial framework and the role of cohesion policy. the pressure on the budget is enormous and in this spirit the european council must be called upon to be truly united. the point of unanimity, i think, is key. on the other hand, those who call for unanimity must have a frank dialogue. i think it is important to stress this to the heads of government and it is important to the presidency. i would also like to raise the question of cyprus, because i have been to this island recently and i was quite shocked by the way the city is divided, the way the island is divided. it is a bit of a shame for europe in the 21st century that cyprus remains a divided island in this way, and i think that the european presidency and the european council should really focus on this.
ladies and gentlemen, the inclusion of social issues in the european council's deliberations is to be welcomed. social and labour standards are an integral dimension of the single market and therefore need to be discussed in an honest way. to discuss honestly means to discuss with all those who may be affected by the impactful measures. after brexit, 85 percent of the eu's gdp will be made up of eurozone countries. does this mean that it is no longer necessary to know the opinion of other countries and that parallel institutions and summits are being set up to decide for all? is the convening of a summit of the european council for only 19 countries a signal that this will be the way forward? such an approach calls into question the principle of unity that we so often like to talk about and is a step backwards.
mr president, i too supported this draft regulation and i would like to acknowledge the role of the estonian presidency in its implementation. it is really important to me that the barriers which actually prevent the rules of the single internal market from being applied should be removed. so improving the rules for cross-border parcel delivery is really important, and although i am not in favour of using the hardest form of legislation, that is the form of regulation, i think it is quite appropriate here. there is no doubt that this measure, i.e. the regulation, will improve efficiency and transparency in parcel delivery, improve the situation of consumers. i would like to draw attention to the situation of small businesses in particular, which make great use of this service, and to the often unfair practices of delivery companies, which complicate their business. so i very much welcome this amendment, and that is why i supported it.
mr president, if we emphasized the role of the single market in the last report on improving the conditions for crossborder delivery of parcels, then road transport is also crucial for this measure, that is to say for the possibilities of better delivery. it is essential for the functioning of the internal market in general. in order to improve the efficiency and safety of road transport, it appears necessary to increase the safety and qualification requirements of drivers accordingly. unfortunately, the situation on the labour market in many member states of the european union, particularly in the field of road haulage, is very tense, there is a shortage of drivers, and if we undermine the demands we have on drivers in terms of reducing those demands, for example, unequal, unequal conditions across the member states, then i think it will also affect our safety. that is why i welcomed and supported this report, because it introduces appropriate, comparable rules and a level playing field in road safety.
mr president, i have finally given this report my due consideration and i therefore give this explanation of my decision. i'm a big supporter of free trade. i am convinced that the free trade agreements which the european union concludes with third countries, such as south korea, objectively bring great economic benefits. i also see the issue of gender and gender equality and the protection of women as very important. on the other hand, i think this report is a bit of a mix between apples and pears. in short, the report gives me a little bit of a sense of not all of us being in favour of free trade and not all of our colleagues being in favour of these international agreements. that's why i've been holding off, because i think the two issues are too serious and should be dealt with separately and not together like this.
mr president, i supported this report because i think it is right that we should tackle the problems of the poorest regions in the framework of european solidarity. the report covers 47 regions in eight countries and it is very good, and i welcome this in the report, that in addition to financial support and assistance, which is the basis of cohesion policy, the report also deals with other aspects and problems of these poorer regions. there is the question of labour law, there is the question of how far individual governments in the member states should tackle reforms that could lead to greater economic growth in the regions concerned, because any financial support under cohesion policy is welcome and, in my view, right, but it will not solve poverty in certain areas in the long term. without economic growth in these areas, aid will be only aid.
the next item is the joint debate on– the report by jan olbrycht, isabelle thomas, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the next mff: preparing the parliament’s position on the mff post-2020 (2017/2052(ini)) (a8—0048/2018), and– the report by gérard deprez, janusz lewandowski, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on reform of the european union’s system of own resources (2017/2053(ini)) (a8—0041/2018).
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission takes note with interest and pleasure of the two drafts of the reports under discussion today. i see in both reports pioneering reflections, structures, expectations and conditions of parliament which, if adopted by you, will certainly be incorporated in greater depth in the final work of the european commission towards may this year. i would like to thank the four rapporteurs - mr olbrycht, mrs thomas, mr deprez and mr lewandowski - for their excellent work with their staff and for the good cooperation they have had with my services and with me. we have shown that we are working together across party lines, and that will certainly facilitate the debate on the budgetary framework from may onwards. it is about the future of europe, as mr arthuis always emphasizes, and what can be done to shape the future with budgetary resources, with financial programmes, with the multiannual financial framework. firstly, the own resources, the new own resources - an ancient story, if you read it carefully: they have been unsuccessful since the 1950s. but the national budget, which once accounted for 10% of total revenue, now accounts for 70%. it is therefore time to diversify our income. i am talking about diversification, not automatically increasing. i would like to see a slight reduction in the contribution from national budgets and the addition of new own resources as a further pillar. the commission has already made a number of proposals in its draft report, which are largely in line with the work of the high level group on mario monti. i would point out that this group is not a commission group, not a parliament group, not a mario monti group, it is a group of all three institutions, and there were also three representatives of the council. and unanimous approval of the proposals at the end should mean that there can be no zero-sum game. we shall be discussing our proposals in the coming weeks. but we will certainly define two, three, four proposals on the revenue side, and i think that would make the work for the next financial framework much easier. the subject of discounts was mentioned. we are thinking in unison here, too. a substantial part of the rebates are rebates from the uk rebate to reduce the reduction in uk payments to other net payers. so when the british rebate falls, that part of the rebate automatically falls. we now have further corrective measures and discounts, and i would like to say as a starting point, as our commission proposal, that we will not propose discounts. and let me be frank: i am not ruling out the possibility that, in the course of the negotiations, there may be a need for a few, unbureaucratic, moderate discounts if unanimity is to be achieved in the negotiations. so much for the own resources report. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we've been working together a lot. i have been on your committee on budgets several times, i have been on many groups, i am going to other groups, i have been on special committees. i am not surprised that your report largely coincides with the draft we are now refining and that some of your proposals will be incorporated into our proposal. in our communication of february, we tried to explain to the european council, the council, but also to parliament and all those involved - the committee of the regions, the economic and social committee - what was at stake. it's like a menu. now you have to decide, now the council has to decide what you're ordering. jean-claude juncker, my colleagues and i we are cooks and waiters, we are waiting for your order. if you want a full menu, which includes border protection and social policy, which includes research and erasmus, if you want to double, triple erasmus, expand horizon, we will deliver. and we bill and expect to be paid. it's like a restaurant. now we actually have a problem that we should avoid as much as possible. i would like to avoid a conflict in this house and also in the council and in the public, a conflict which could be cohesion versus migration or agriculture versus defence. the european community is not a mere institution, but a political one. we have traditional programs, but tradition doesn't mean they belong in the house of history. traditional programmes can be sustainable without change. i still think that cohesion policy is viable. why would you do that? look at gdp per capita in the member states and regions. the average gdp per capita in europe is 28 000 euros, in my own country it is 40 000 euros, in luxembourg it is 100 000 euros, in bulgaria it is 6800 euros. this is not what will keep europe together in the long run, this is not what is reasonable in the long run. we must reduce the gap in gdp per head, not by reducing luxembourg to 30,000, but by increasing investment in bulgaria, romania, the new member states and the regions of southern europe, increasing their competitiveness and thus increasing gdp per head. that is what i call a union of solidarity. this is what modern cohesion policy must do. i do not know whether cohesion policy will still be necessary in 2050, but i do know that it will remain necessary over the next decade for bringing less developed regions closer to the average and for increasing the competitiveness of all regions, as well as for social measures and for smart environmental and infrastructure measures. that is why a reduction in cohesion would be completely wrong. the same applies to agricultural policy. in our proposal we will simplify agricultural policy, we will improve greening, we will reconcile the agricultural sector and the environment even more closely, we will give the farmer money so that he can produce good food in sufficient quantity and of high quality, in compliance with our environmental and animal welfare regulations and with the regulations on soil, water and climate protection. that is another reason why the agricultural policy is still viable. now we have very different agricultural structures. we have the small farmer who claims 15 hectares and we have the large company which farms 5,000 hectares. we've got to get this spagat right. that is why the willingness to compromise of all parties involved is part of it. we have two gaps, the brexit gap and the spending gap created by new tasks. our proposal: we will close the brexit gap with 50% redundancies and cuts and 50% additional revenue. but if we are going to tackle new tasks, if we believe, in the interests of our citizens and our member states, that europe can act and finance more efficiently in defence research, border protection, border control, migration and refugee aid, then we need the money of the member states to do this. 80% fresh money and 20% through internal re-allocations is our proposal for this. the second point is the ceiling: you propose 1.3%. i think this is ambitious, but very practical. 1.3 is not beyond good and evil, quite the opposite. the parliament is proposing a very, very well-founded premium. our formula is 1.1x, because we still have some uncertainties. the inclusion of the development fund is an uncertainty, the question of deepening economic and monetary union and what money should be invested in structural support, in the readiness for reform and in the preparation for the introduction of the euro. the second uncertainty is that we are still waiting for some advice from the council, otherwise we will translate our proposal into concrete figures after easter. and then we're going to solve for the x of 1.1x into a concrete number. the commission has already made a number of proposals. she's becoming increasingly empty. at a time when the cap and cohesion accounted for well over 80% of expenditure, the return on funds could still be calculated with relative accuracy. in the next mff, however, the cap and cohesion will fall to about 60-61% of all expenditure. and soon 40 percent will be erasmus, refugee aid, research, where there is no return in that sense. if we invest in education, security, clothing, food, shelter for refugees in turkey and their human dignity, nothing comes back. but the refugees are spared the difficult journey across the mediterranean to us, and the costs are not incurred here, but much more efficiently locally. we should therefore convince the member states and the media that the net contributor approach is long outdated and no longer suits the new tasks and programmes. thank you for your preliminary work. we are happy to hear further oral expectations from you, evaluate them, incorporate them into our proposal and then come back with the commission proposal on 2 may and at the end of may with all the supplementary implementing rules. we are grateful that you have made the mff one of your priorities in parliament for 2018, that you appoint your rapporteurs early, that you have an intensive session schedule until february-march next year. because if we fail to adopt key decisions or the whole package before easter next year, i predict that nothing will happen in 2019 and then 2020 will be decided by the end of the mff. and then 2021 would be another completely lost year for farmers, for researchers, for regions, for mayors, for the economic development of europe. this one should be avoided. then we would have learned from the experience of the past. this is what we did wrong in 2013. and one more point: if our british friends leave us and the 27 member states and the members of the various political groups are able to reach agreement on this contentious issue, they will be sending a very good signal that europe is alive and that it is a europe of good governance.
commissioner, thank you for a very complex and balanced introduction from your side. like the distribution between the council and parliament and the chefs and the menu, i would only perhaps be tempted to say that it is also good for you to assess the ingredients on the menu and tell us from time to time whether it is healthy or less healthy, but that is just a side comment. but the message was clearly understood.
i understand that it was not a set-up, that was not agreed. (interjection from mr fernandes: ‘i can try again’) no, that’s fine, sorry, it was a misunderstanding. it was just that you said that it looks like a set-up, so i was saying to you it was not a set-up, i understand it is not a set-up.
on the other hand, i must say that there are other beautiful things about campania which are definitely on the peak. but anyway, i think we understood the message.
madam president, i do not know whether it is just me who has this feeling of déjà vu when listening to this debate, or whether other colleagues have it too. mr geier, the dutch colleague, did not say that he wanted to increase the budget. he didn't say he wanted more money from the netherlands. he talked about finding our own sources of funding for the european union. if we look for our own resources, it means that we will be asking for less money from the member states. if we don't listen to each other and make political proclamations, this debate is completely useless. those of you who have experienced this debate on own resources here, you know that it's been held here for four years in a very open spirit. there is always a debate that we disagree on some point, whether it is an environmental tax or whether it is a tax on some services, transactions and so on, but we all agree that the european union should be less dependent on the income of individual member states. i'm not in favor of, as you said, colleague, mindlessly increasing the budget. siegfried mureşan said that money here has to be used efficiently, and that's what this debate is about. we are not talking about replacing the income of the united kingdom with some income of other member states after the united kingdom has left. we're here today to discuss how we can find a way, and that way should be long-term. we're not looking at a five-year perspective, but a much longer perspective. i'm sorry my speech was longer.
in writing. the european multiannual financial framework has, almost from the outset, demonstrated several shortcomings. the high level of outstanding commitments already in 2014 is starting to end with a lack of funds for new priorities, which the commission and the council have decided to address in an unsystematic way by ad hoc shifting of envelopes from successful programmes. i welcome the report on the future mff: preparing parliament's position on the mff post-2020, because i believe it is necessary to avoid these mistakes in the future. europeans need a strong union that can respond to the major challenges. a union of sustainable economic growth, quality jobs and economic, social and territorial cohesion. representatives of member states may no longer block eu contributions to measures to combat climate change. these are still well below the 20% level to which the member states themselves have committed themselves. the life programme, which is a highly successful programme but suffers from chronic underfunding compared to other european programmes, needs to be increased. i am very pleased that parliament has managed to establish a strong position. i am also personally very pleased that the european parliament has openly recognised that the financing of the new agricultural policy must go hand in hand with the introduction of practices which are more environmentally friendly and more health-friendly.
ladies and gentlemen, today's latest news confirms that the turkish army has surrounded the city of afrin and begun its siege. it seems that the situation in eastern ghouta will be repeated in afrin province. afrin, like ghouta, has a civilian population of several tens of thousands. both afrin and ghouta have blockades preventing the entry of humanitarian convoys. hundreds of civilians were killed in both afrin and ghouta. both cities are suffering from hunger and water shortages. the difference is who's participating in the crime against the civilian population. in ghouta, it's assad and russian military planes, afrin is being bombed by the turkish army. and i ask: is the turkish army, which murders civilians, still our ally? with every child who dies, international humanitarian law is torn to shreds. we are all complicit in tolerating evil in its worst form. no alliance can justify the killing of civilians.
mr president, i say to the vice-president that you have referred to friends in cuba. well, i have also met friends, but very different from the ones that you spoke of. our representatives of 30 organisations, including those that hold the sakharov prize, have come up with a declaration which i will read out to you, at least the major part of the content. ‘through this declaration we manifest our total rejection of the spurious and anti-democratic process that is about to take place in our country of birth. in these cuban elections, millions of cubans who reside outside the island are not allowed to vote. for those within cuba, the choice is limited to the one and only candidate listed for each available position. that leaves cuban citizens, of course, with no freedom of choice. we also recognise that the most important issue in the process of cuban democratisation is the holding of free elections with a plurality of political parties and programmes allowed to compete on equal terms. cubans within the island and those abroad should be allowed to participate and the elections should be held in the presence of supervision of international observers. we appeal to high representative / vice president mogherini to finally and unconditionally support the plea for free and democratic elections.’ (the president cut off the speaker)
mr. chairman, today we're discussing president donald trump's new activity on tariffs on steel and aluminum. i think this decision is an unfortunate, bad decision for international trade. it is provoking absolutely unnecessary emotions towards economic cooperation between the united states of america and the european union. of course, there were immediate proposals for retaliation. every trade war is dangerous and only brings losses to both sides. it is therefore important to seek a diplomatic solution immediately, before a domino effect is triggered. it is clear that the global steel overproduction can only be solved by agreement of all the parties concerned. i believe it is unnecessary to call on the commission's top officials here for urgent trade diplomacy, and i thank the commissioner for the information today. the impact on the steel industry can be dramatic, especially after very strong co2 regulations and coal cuts. the steel industry is already on the verge of collapse, and few people realize the importance of steel in transport and construction. if we fail to resolve this problem of customs protection, i am afraid not only of possible similar actions in other areas but also of serious damage to the european steel industry.
mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are living through a period of great instability. everything changes, we don't know what's coming in a few years. we don't know what europe will look like, and in this uncertainty, propaganda of all kinds is being spread. on the one hand, there are the fundamentalists of pro-european, euro-friendly politics, who say that the european union must remain forever, that the european union is the only institution in human history that will last for ever and ever. it's irresponsible policy, because the situation is very uncertain and we really can't predict what's going to happen in a few years. similarly, propaganda is being spread by other politicians who say that the european union must be left immediately, preferably tomorrow, whatever the cost, even if it means collapse and disaster. that's also irresponsible politics. both are fundamentalism of the same kind. perhaps there are also people here who are profiting from the fact that we are staying in the european union as long as the subsidies are coming in. all these approaches are wrong, because it is the duty of politicians to assess the current situation correctly and to make decisions accordingly every day. we can't just go on a fundamentalist notion that we know what's right. and it's especially important in times of politics, because there's no one answer that's going to make us reassess the situation. the european commission has indicated that the lisbon treaty is, in principle, ending. it presented a white paper on the future of europe and put forward a number of scenarios for how the project could go forward. it calls for a discussion of these alternatives and it is clear that the probability of keeping the lisbon treaty is very limited. this uncertainty is exacerbated by the uncertainty about russia, the uncertainty about china, the situation in north africa, the middle east, migration, the weakening of nato, which is losing its weight and authority as a result of the policies of the european union, and this threatens us all. the murder of journalists, the murder of former spies, and the call for democracy in this uncertain situation are all contributing to this. the citizens of the european states feel that decisions are being made about us without us, that they have absolutely no influence on what happens in brussels or here. the voices are growing that call for a real alternative, replacing the lisbon treaty with some kind of democratic institution. it is not a question of creating conflict, we all want cooperation between european countries, but based on completely different principles than we see here today. we're really looking for another way. mr. prime minister, we described one such alternative and you got it through your embassy in prague. we would very much like you to read it and we would like to start discussing real alternatives, not just how to keep power in brussels. all the good that the european union does can be done without these institutions. and that's the alternative we should be talking about.
mr president, we have voted here several times on the adjustment of relations between the european union and the united kingdom following its withdrawal from the european union, and i have the feeling that in each of these votes there will be a number of subtle demands in each report, which we all know will be difficult for the other side, the united kingdom, to accept. i wonder why that is. i do not want to be a stickler, but i am beginning to get the impression that the european parliament is using this as part of a negotiating tactic or that it wants to escalate the situation before any possible final vote or that, in the worst-case scenario, it does not even want to reach an agreement. i would very much like to see a degree of mutual sensitivity here and to see that each of these reports is designed and constructed in such a balanced way that such suspicions cannot arise.
mr. chairman, the current negotiations with the uk are based on the idea that the uk will pay for brexit. but if we look at the trade statistics, it turns out that the continent is paying far more for brexit than the uk. our businesses on the continent need a clear and predictable business environment. we urgently need information on how free trade is going to play out. we urgently need assurances that the free trade agreement with the uk will be concluded. the european commission is gambling with our destinies by negotiating and deepening the negative consequences of brexit for all.
mr president, i voted in favour of the european parliament's position on the post-2020 financial framework. it is clear from the amendments we have voted on for a long time that the negotiations on the common position must have been very complex. finally, the proposal also includes a proposal to extend the planning period from seven years to five plus five, i.e. to ten years. that's the part that i personally don't agree with, because i think the seven-year period is optimal, we have good experience with it. on the other hand, i very much appreciate the fact that the european parliament has supported the increase of the erasmus+ programme, which is crucial for young people, has supported the increase of security expenditure and has also supported the ticket for young people aged 18 and over, which is such a pilot programme for young people in the european union. so i appreciate the work of my colleagues on this report, which i was able to support.
mr president, i am aware that we are at a crossroads, that we have many challenges ahead of us. that is why i have supported financial stability, looking to the future, and at the same time i support cohesion policy in the long term, because it is a policy that helps our cohesion and should be the true reflection of european policy as such. it was essential for me that the cohesion policy role as such was preserved in this report, that erasmus was strengthened, which is a very good programme for young people, and that we continue to be able to respond to challenges such as brexit and to new challenges that are reflected in the budget. i consider the report to be balanced overall, and that is why i supported it.
mr president, like my colleagues, i supported the report on own resources reform, also in view of the fact that we have to deal with the consequences of brexit. another reason is a certain lack of transparency in the system of financing the budget. we agree that the revenue side of the budget should be simplified and made more transparent, which is certainly the case. i did not agree, and therefore did not vote, to the introduction of certain proposals for an environmental tax or a corporate tax share. these issues are not sufficiently discussed and need to be considered much more carefully. on the other hand, i accepted the challenge to the european commission to present the relevant vat legislation and a proposal for the reform of the vat-based own resource in the forthcoming legislative package.
mr president, i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the implementation of the european semester. this report puts more emphasis on employment and social criteria. i consider the annual growth analysis to be a very important tool, providing member states with important feedback on which areas to focus on and which reforms to implement. more flexibility in terms of working time and not abandoning even typical forms of employment are needed if we are to really help to increase employment. these forms also allow employees to coordinate their work duties with others. however, these workers also deserve adequate social protection. therefore, one of the greatest challenges for reforms will always be to strike a balance between flexibility and social protection. however, the most important tool for growth remains education and, of course, in digital technologies, where there is a lack of education among the workforce.
the next item is the topical debate (rule 153a) on international cooperation in the fight against cybercrime – the threat to public services (2018/2627(rsp)).
for the group gue/ngl mr. chairman, terms like hacker and cybernetics are used on a daily basis these days. states have been accusing each other of hacking into various internet servers or interfering in elections. some experts speak of a so-called cyber cold war. the fact that cyberattacks are increasing and will most likely continue to do so is a reality. the question is whether they can be effectively prepared for, or even prevented. the international exchange of experience in this field is absolutely essential. but cybersecurity is a complex issue. the internet is a living organism that will find its way, and i'm afraid it will always be one step ahead of us politicians. the rules need to be set in a balanced way so as not to infringe on citizens' fundamental rights, such as freedom of expression. but we cannot allow the eradication of internet freedom and the deliberate spying on citizens. regulation is not the same as censorship. we have a huge task ahead of us, and the end result must be to increase the security of our citizens.
mr president, digital systems are penetrating every area of life, including public services. we become addicted to them. the border between critical and non-critical infrastructure is becoming increasingly blurred, with fully autonomous systems and 5g networks soon to become a reality. protection against cybercrime is therefore a key challenge and must be based on robust cooperation at european and international level. the member states of the european union have their own professional systems and procedures. but we need to deepen coordination and exchange of information within the european ecosystem. we will discuss the role of enisa, there is also the dimension of cooperation between police and judicial authorities, including europol and eurojust. but you can't create a 'strong europe', cybercrime doesn't respect borders. and that makes international cooperation with our euro-atlantic allies all the more important, but also with countries like israel or south korea.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this debate, which i think has been very timely and has underlined again the importance of these issues. last year we saw major attacks with wannacry and notpetya, but we also saw politically-motivated attacks. i think together, that has raised the awareness of the need to tackle these different cyber threats. i think we are responding. i am very grateful for the support that i hear and indeed the encouragement to keep working on these issues. from the commission side we are committed to develop a cybersecurity agency with real competences and capacities and to develop a certification system that really delivers increased cybersecurity. we will work with the member states to that end. we will work to promote a really effective public—private partnership. we will, as encouraged by you all, work to build the resilience of our infrastructures, our platforms, services and devices, but also to address the behavioural challenge: to build our behavioural and societal resilience too against some of these threats, because, as has been underlined by many of the speakers, in order to benefit to the full from the digital single market and all the social advantages we get from an ever-more interconnected society, we need to deal with the threats and the challenges that seek to undermine it.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i listened to your debates with great interest, and if we had to summarise the main aspects of the issue, i have to say that on the one hand, cyber security questions are clearly linked to the development of the digital single market, providing opportunities for citizens and european industry to make the most of the digital economy. on the other hand we are facing ever-increasing cyber security challenges, and one of them is the cyberattack wannacry mentioned by many of you. these challenges ahead of us can be faced, and the ambition of making europe the leader in cybersecurity by 2025 can be achieved, through multidimensional cooperation, a comprehensive approach and strengthening the legal framework. in order to increase the preparedness at national and eu level, the key word to overcome those challenges is cooperation and the multidimensional aspects: public-private cooperation, cooperation between member states, economic cross-border and cross-sector collaboration, cooperation between the relevant services of the member states, the eu institutions, the new agencies as well as third countries and organisations. as the presidency, we are determined to advance the legislative work as much as possible. we consider the cyber security act as a priority and hope to reach a general approach before the end of our term so that the trilogues can start under the austrian presidency. the aim is to give a stronger and permanent mandate to the european union agency for network and information security (enisa), the new eu cyber security agency, and to avoid fragmentation of the cybersecurity market of services, goods and processes by establishing a framework for certification schemes at eu level. discussions are still ongoing, notably the task and mandate of the enisa as well as on certification. let me assure you of the council’s firm commitment to continuing the work that i have outlined and our readiness to adopt and effectively implement concrete measures in the field in order to ensure an open, free, safe and secure cyberspace while protecting with strong determination the fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens.
the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on protection of investigative journalists in europe: the case of slovak journalist ján kuciak and martina kušnírová (2018/2628(rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, today’s debate has been triggered by the appalling assassination of ján kuciak and his partner marina kušnírová. first of all, i would like to offer my sincere condolences to their families, friends and colleagues. the council strongly condemns this crime and expects the perpetrators to be brought to justice. mr kuciak was a journalist who was not afraid to investigate serious crime. he wanted to shed light on what needs to be eradicated in our societies and devoted his life to fighting corruption and the abuse of power. mr kuciak’s courageous behaviour deserves our respect and recognition. the work of journalists like him is a truly vital part of any healthy democracy. media freedom is an indispensable pillar of any democratic society. journalists are among the guardians of properly-functioning democracies. where there is no freedom of speech and people fear for their lives every time they express a critical view, there is no democracy. it is for these very reasons that freedom of speech, media freedom and pluralism are guaranteed under the eu charter of fundamental rights. they are among the core democratic values on which the european union is founded. these freedoms are an obligation on our governments, and all democracies must make it an absolute priority to protect journalists from financial or political pressure. let me be clear: in our union, attacks designed to silence media representatives are completely unacceptable. if they happen, we must act immediately: we must condemn the crime, find and punish the perpetrators and re-establish public trust in the ability of our democratic institutions to function. we are all conscious of the responsibility our governments have to protect journalists and defend media freedom. the slovak law enforcement authorities, together with international experts, are investigating the crime. a delegation from the european parliament was in bratislava last week. i look forward to what they will have to say. the council welcomes the timely initial response of the slovak authorities, including their initiative to provide a detailed briefing during the february session of the general affairs council in brussels, on 27 february. it signalled a clear commitment on the part of the slovak government to ensure a quick investigation. the council stands ready to provide any assistance to the slovak authorities in investigating this appalling crime. we owe this to mr kuciak and to all journalists working to make our societies better.
member of the commission. – mr president, we are all still deeply shocked by the assassination of ján kuciak, a 27-year-old investigative reporter, and his partner martina kušnírová two weeks ago in slovakia. we strongly condemn it and express again our deepest condolences to their families and loved ones. last week president tajani made a strong call for a detailed, in-depth international investigation. all of the political groups requested an independent inquiry commission to investigate what happened. as president juncker said, the killing or intimidation of journalists has no place in europe, no place in any democracy. on behalf of president juncker and all my colleagues in the commission, can i say that we fully agree that the top priority for all of us must be to carry out an independent and thorough investigation of the facts and bring those responsible to justice? we call upon the slovak authorities to do this quickly. we are aware that their investigation relies upon the cooperation of europol and the italian authorities. europol is ready to support the investigations with all the instruments and expertise at its disposal. the eu also provides several additional tools to support police and judicial cooperation between slovakia and italy. we encourage the authorities to make full use of this extra support. this cooperation should be put in place as rapidly as possible in order for justice to be done. in order to find out whether this case involved misuse of eu funds and had a cross-border dimension, we invite the authorities to cooperate fully with the european anti-fraud office (olaf). if misuse of funds were proven this case would illustrate again why we need the european public prosecutor. the murders of ján kuciak and martina kušnírová, as well as that of daphne caruana galizia five months ago, show that investigative journalism remains a dangerous profession everywhere in the world, including here in europe. we can’t accept this. as first vice-president timmermans stated, no democracy can survive without the free press, which is why journalists deserve respect and protection. we have to do our utmost to ensure journalists’ safety and to stop such crimes from happening again in any eu member state. media freedom and pluralism are essential pillars of our modern democracy. they are guarantees of an open and free democratic debate. they are fundamental rights, as enshrined in article 11 of the eu charter of fundamental rights. they’re intrinsically linked to the values which we treasure and which we can never take for granted. journalists have the right to investigate, to ask uncomfortable questions and to report effectively. this is what ján kuciak was doing. that, it appears, is why he was murdered. every day we witness the challenges that political, technological and sociological changes pose to pluralism, to the status of facts and investigative journalism throughout the world. in 2016 the commission dedicated its annual colloquium on fundamental rights precisely to these issues – media pluralism and democracy. several members of this house took part in those discussions actively. they explored the multiple links between a free pluralistic media and democracy and agreed to promote and protect that pluralism and freedom of the media in the eu. the assassinations in slovakia show that we need to continue to be vigilant, including in europe, and do more to protect these fundamental rights on a national as well as an eu level. member states have a duty to make sure that press freedom and journalists are protected on their territory, in law but also in spirit. it is up to national governments, in this sad case slovakia, to make sure that their citizens are protected and to bring those guilty of crimes to justice in accordance with their constitutional legal order and with international human rights obligations. under the treaties, the commission has limited powers concerning media freedom. however, we can and do monitor, encourage and guide. for instance, we are acting to make sure that journalists can do their essential work in safety. journalists are the watchdogs of our democratic societies. with their relentless work and investigations they enable a free and independent media to hold those in power to account. in this context, we are completing our work on an initiative that we announced in our work programme last october to strengthen the protection of whistleblowers. whistleblowers who unveil illegal activities are an important source of information for journalists. protecting them from retaliation is, therefore, a vital part of safeguarding investigative journalism. the best guarantee of media freedom and pluralism is to ensure the independence of media regulators. this is why the commission has proposed strengthening the rules for the independence of national audiovisual regulators as part of the revision of the audiovisual media services directive. this includes requirements of independence that relate also to budgetary and structural provisions. but it is not only about laws. we also monitor risks to media pluralism across europe and map violations of media freedom. we support journalists under threat as well as investigative journalism. we have recently begun funding a scheme dedicated cross-border investigative journalism. many of these initiatives, and i salute this, are independent projects financed by this parliament. one particularly useful instrument is the eu-financed media pluralism monitor, which aims to identify and highlight risks to media pluralism. unfortunately, the results show that no member state is immune from risks when it comes to media pluralism. i can assure you that we will continue to monitor the situation in all member states, including in slovakia. as this case demonstrates, both the eu and its member states need to do more to protect investigative journalism across europe. the murder of this young journalist and his partner is an attack on all that europe stands for, our values, our right to freedom of speech, our right to ask difficult questions, our rights justice and our capacity to hold those in power properly to account. this is what distinguishes our democracies and keeps them healthy and vibrant. mr president, if you’ll permit me, two words on another matter. we live in extraordinary times. various forces seem intent on attacking the rule of law, the very values that lie at the heart of our open societies. we have seen recently the first offensive use of nerve agent on european territory since world war ii, something that the council of europe called a ‘dangerous breach of the rule of law’. i want to join first vice-president timmermans in repeating again, on behalf of the commission, our full solidarity with the people of salisbury, indeed the people of britain, as they tackle this attack.
thank you, commissioner for both issues. on the latter issue parliament has taken a very strong position and i can only reiterate and fully support what you have said.
i am sure that i speak on behalf of the whole house when i say we are looking forward to the report and getting acquainted with the findings.
i must say that it is surely not just me who has the highest respect for the slovaks and the message that they sent out in the streets of many slovak towns and cities.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, death can never be justified, especially when it comes to young people who were only trying to get the truth. the deaths of jan kuciak and martina kušnírová must be investigated as soon as possible so that we know the truth about this cowardly and heinous act. once again, let me extend my heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims. the case we're discussing here today is absolutely reprehensible, but i would like to ask everyone here not to make slovakia an occupied mafia country. we didn't do it in malta, and we shouldn't do it in slovakia. we all believe in democratic control and the indivisibility of power, so let the slovak authorities act. this is really not the time to be collecting cheap political dots. the events in slovakia should not be judged by the streets, the european union or the european parliament, but by an independent slovak court. in this context, i consider it a complete insolence that our colleague manfred weber is instructing prime minister fica on who to fire from the government. i would like to know if the countries of central europe can also dictate who will be in the german government when it is finally formed. i hope so, because otherwise, there's a double standard. please let's have this debate with respect for slovakia and its democratic and independent institutions. slovakia deserves a helping hand if it asks for it, not condemnation based on speculation. (the rapporteur has agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
the question posed by the blue card. i would like to ask mrs konečná what she does not like about slovak citizens being able to express their opinions freely. they don't decide in the streets, they gather there to express their disapproval when the government doesn't act, when it doesn't want to take responsibility for the situation that is there. the street doesn't decide, but the street calls for this murder to be properly investigated in slovakia. so i ask you: why do you disapprove of people going out into the streets to express their opinions?
answer the question by raising the blue card. madam colleague, i'm surprised you don't understand me for speaking czech. i didn't say i didn't agree with the street having its say. i only said that we should trust independent courts and trust slovakia and i refuse that our colleagues, your colleagues, your manfred weber, interfere in who should be in slovakia as a minister or how the government should be composed. we have no right to do that, and if we allow this, we're opening up a pandora's box that could take its goddamn revenge on us.
the question posed by the blue card. dear colleague, i know that you come from eastern slovakia and that is actually the main topic or was the main topic of the last articles of jan kuciak. so i want to ask you, how do you personally feel about what he wrote and what he described? how do you view these practices? you were here today calling for the protection of journalists. how do you personally feel about the fact that he asked for protection and didn't get it from the police? and how do you personally assess the work of the slovak authorities from the position of a member of the ruling smer party?
madam president, the murder of jan kuciak and martina kušnírová is a terrible thing and the authorities must find and punish the guilty. media, especially print media, are facing economic challenges today in the context of online news, social networks and other changes in the overall environment. especially time-consuming investigative journalism often lacks resources. the role of traditional journalism is irreplaceable in a democracy, especially given the amount of fake news and misinformation we are targeted with in today's world. the revelation of the panama papers also testifies to its importance. political leaders must respect and, where necessary, defend freedom of expression and create conditions for the free work of the media, not to mention the safety of journalists. daphne caruana galizia was murdered in malta, and now there was murder in slovakia. it is absolutely imperative that we do everything we can to prevent this from happening again.
madam president, the murder of a journalist is the ultimate attack on freedom of speech, an attack on democracy. slovak citizens understood this and took to the streets to demonstrate against the power responsible for the murder of jan kuciak. the spark jumped from the east. the ukrainians on the maidan understood that they were ruled by the same people who ruled under communism, that in their country the most ardent communists became the biggest and richest capitalists, the most powerful oligarchs. the slovaks have understood this. the murder of a journalist was the trigger. tens of thousands of slovaks on the streets are beginning to understand that the famous czechoslovak velvet revolution of 1989 is not over. that it needs to be completed by all the democratic means that it has provided us. it seems maidan has become mobile. hungarians and georgians, who have their oligarchs, have also taken to the streets. czechs took to the streets earlier this year to protest against being ruled by a former kgb agent, a state security agent, a former communist party member, now a wealthy oligarch and the country's prime minister and owner of influential media. ladies and gentlemen, central and eastern europe is being overshadowed by popular resistance. the murdered jan kuciak fell in this battle. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure).)
answer the question by raising the blue card. i was not looking for financial flows, i wanted to point out that our countries are still infiltrated by communists who control all the important political and economic posts in our eastern bloc countries. that's all i wanted to say.
madam chairman, the murder of young journalists is obviously an abhorrent act. it was just as heinous when oles buzina, an investigative journalist in kiev, was murdered and we kept silent. he was a man who only had a different opinion than our protégé petro poroshenko. i trust the slovak authorities. a few years ago, the constitutional judge of the slovak republic, ernest valko, my friend, was murdered. his case was investigated, the perpetrators were found. i believe that's what's going to happen here. in the context of the murder of young journalists, i ask myself: have we done enough together to prevent such things from happening? isn't this a european problem, a common one? we should probably think more about how to cooperate more against money laundering, organized crime, how to protect journalists.
madam president, i would like to express my sorrow and solidarity both to the families of the victims and, of course, to all slovak citizens. we don't really know who is responsible for this heinous act, and we must insist on a proper investigation, i would stress that. however, the mother of one of the victims, for example, has expressed doubts about the proper investigation. i think it is the task of the slovak authorities to dispel these doubts. i think that in the european union, journalists should not be killed, it's a great shame for our community. i would like to recall the vocabulary of prime minister fico over the past decades. he actually remains, in my opinion, in this dictionary somewhere in the far east, and i think he may have indirectly legitimized the attacks that were on journalists. i think it's important to say that these attacks could legitimize prime minister fico's statements. it is important to me that the investigation be really guaranteed by a european authority, that is, europol. it's our shared responsibility.
madam president, i think we've heard a lot of criticism here and i think we should perhaps take a little lessons and a little optimism from the case of jan kuciak. we should say one thing that still holds true, that one day the truth will triumph over lies and hatred. and if this death reminds us of this message, and if we take away from this that we wake up, that we as politicians stop criticizing journalists for their work and stop being latent when one of our politicians criticizes and threatens journalists, then i think it's something that can serve all the states within the european union. it's not the first death, there was a journalist killed in malta before. we have to fight for freedom of speech, for democracy, for journalists to be able to work, to fight all the time. because those who sleep in democracy will wake up in totalitarianism.
madam president, the murder of ján and martina was understood by the citizens of slovakia as an attack on freedom of speech and they understood it correctly. and if their deaths are to have any meaning, then this murder cannot go uninvestigated. the citizens of the czech republic also understood that they had to defend themselves and the freedom of speech, so today in prague and other places in the czech republic people will demonstrate and express their condolences for the death of the slovak journalist and his girlfriend. it's also because in the czech republic, president miloš zeman is attacking the media and freedom of speech. the czech president also lashed out at the media, including public television, in his recent inaugural address. populists in our country are luring citizens to nationalize public media in exchange for forgiveness of license fees. ladies and gentlemen, it is also up to us, the politicians, the members of the european parliament, to stand up for freedom of speech.
madam president, if there is a strong political will in this house to achieve fairer taxation, it makes sense to deal with both cctb and the consolidation file together. it is high time to deliver. according to a financial times analysis, big multinational companies are paying significantly less tax than before the 2008 financial crisis, with companies’ effective tax rates falling by 9% since then. these proposals are the remaining missing pieces for the eu to fight tax avoidance. they will further strengthen our internal market and improve our tax system, which the taxe and pana committees have proved is necessary to counter aggressive tax planning and tax avoidance. taxation should take place where the value is created. too often this natural principle is not respected. parliament’s position also addresses a specific loophole in our taxation system: the digital dimension. again, we used a very simple principle. digital businesses in the eu without a physical establishment have to be treated in the same way as businesses having one in the eu. it is up to the member states to find an agreement which responds to the need to keep up with rapid globalisation development. i therefore call on the member states to join us in this renewed initiative to create a fairer tax environment for the benefit of fairer competition and, above all, the citizens.
madam president, i am convinced that the taxation of goods and services should indeed remain within the european union. this does not, of course, prevent the adoption of uniform procedural rules. we should therefore look for a strategy to keep the tax within the european union. the tax must be paid where the profit was generated. i think that is the rule that the european commission's proposal also complies with. i'm glad the intelligence people upgraded it. i would, however, like to distinguish this situation from unfair tax competition, that is to say, if the member states are legitimately setting their tax policy and it is not unfair tax competition, then it is indeed within their competence. but at a time when we are witnessing a kind of unfair tax competition between member states, i must admit that i am not entirely happy to see this - and this is very subtle - and it would be good if the european commission were able to respond to this question as well.
in writing. the main idea and the goal we have to achieve is that companies pay taxes where they make profits. i am totally against tax havens and tax fraud. i think we're missing a definition of what a tax haven is. we have to distinguish between tax optimization and fraudulent deception. at the same time, i remain convinced that fiscal policy should remain a full competence of the member states. for example, as the ksčm, we propose two tax rates, a lower one for smes and a higher one for large companies. the proposed directive, however, envisages that within seven years a minimum uniform tax rate will apply to all legal entities across the eu. i strongly support the unanimous decision in the council on these steps.
mr president, i will not repeat what has already been said and i agree with my predecessors. they merely state that spanish olive growers receive only the financial support due to other agricultural producers in the european union and therefore do not receive any special production subsidies. so in my opinion, this is not a violation of any rules, let alone wto rules. commissioner, in my view, the european commission should, in the present situation, first of all provide expert support to spanish olive growers, which has not yet been done here. the investigation by the us authorities undoubtedly represents a significant burden for these producers. second, we should consider challenging the us decision to the wto dispute settlement bodies. it is also appropriate to use the diplomatic service, that is to say to intensify diplomatic efforts to promote and defend the common agricultural policy of the european union, which, i repeat, is in accordance with the wto rules. given the current intransigence of the us side, we should also assess the risk of the extension of the us anti-dumping measures to other european agricultural products, because this risk is real and i think we should be prepared for it. at the same time, we should strongly warn the american side that protectionist policies can create instability and uncertainty on world markets, which will damage world trade and ultimately turn against the united states in particular.
mr. chairman, corporate social responsibility is obviously not a pr charity. corporate social responsibility is defined as the financing of public good projects, corporate, environmental or social policies, and the way in which their activities affect the atmosphere in society. so let's talk about the double standard. working conditions in parent and subsidiary companies, the relationship between productivity and wages, the payment or non-payment of taxes. we are talking about whether companies are not creating first and second class employees and consumers, not only from the point of view of third countries, but also here in the european union. this too can affect people's relationship with the society in which we live. the czech language has a simple recommendation: "stay at home".
mr president, i believe that the issue of corporate social responsibility is one of the most fundamental issues we need to address in the 21st century. i think it's an absolutely undeniable fact that just as every individual and every state, so too do companies and corporations have a huge responsibility for the state of the world. if companies continue to degrade the environment and exploit cheap labor, it's going to be hard to talk about human rights and climate change here. if companies and corporations don't pay their taxes and prefer to hide them in tax havens, then we'll have another and another commission of inquiry here. taxes will be paid by those who can't handle money, and we'll address the lack of funds for pensions. this is not a sustainable state of affairs, this is at the heart of future crises, this shows the injustice of the current system. and we need to act now.
mr. chairman, corporate social responsibility is a growing topic. it emphasises that businesses should voluntarily take account of human rights, environmental protection and other social criteria in their activities. i just want to remind you that this is nothing new. ninety years ago, the firm of tomáš a jan batýov knew that it had to take care of its employees if it was to be sustainable in the long run. they were not interested in their own personal gain. corporate social responsibility should remain largely voluntary. we can't just tell companies to do business in a particular place. but i understand my italian colleagues, i understand the employees who have come here to present themselves, i understand their concerns and their motivations, but i think that in this case it is above all the italian government and the governments of the national states that must be involved with their incentives and conditions for business.
member of the commission. – mr president, in the fast—changing world of work, new digital technology is opening up new challenges but also new opportunities. the skills that people have when they leave school should be a solid basis, but now more than ever before, people need to grow and upskill during their lives and professional careers. working patterns more and more often mean a change of job or profession, working in new ways or taking on new tasks, some of which we cannot predict today. people need to be able to easily show and present their skills, identify their skills gaps and easily find the right learning opportunities to fill them. for over a decade, europe has helped people to showcase their skills and qualifications across europe. many of you might know the europass cv, which has had over 100 million downloads since it was created. it has already been successful, but the time has come – as the two rapporteurs said – to modernise it. in doing so, we want to make the most of the new technologies to ensure that europass continues to support the needs of those looking for upskilling, mobility and career opportunities. i would like to warmly thank the two rapporteurs, mr mann and mr malinov, for your very constructive approach to this during the interinstitutional discussions. the amendments from you strengthen the commission’s proposal, for instance by highlighting the need for europass to be fully accessible to people with disabilities or elderly persons. i want to thank the entire team in parliament and the council for the excellent cooperation, allowing us to reach a timely agreement on this europass decision. we have made progress on the implementation of the new skills agenda for europe. the commission has delivered on all its ten priority actions. our aim, which is well reflected in the text that we have now agreed, is to provide an ambitious, forward—looking framework that offers modern tools for describing skills. the new europass will include the electronic skills portfolio, which will allow users to create, store and share documents and information on their skills and qualifications. it will include a self—assessment tool that will allow users to identify new skills they may need, share the results, add them to their cv, store the results in europass and map their progress over time by comparing with previous self—assessment results. it would also include skills intelligence, which is up—to—date information on trends and demands in different sectors, countries and professions across europe. this information can help individuals in their career management. all these tools to support people’s careers and upskilling choices bring an added value to europeans. the new europass text lays the basis for the next step towards closer cooperation and easier communication of skills and qualifications across the labour market, education and training sectors. let me underline the important role of europass in helping to deliver on the european pillar of social rights. the right to education, training and lifelong learning and the right to active support for employment is enshrined in the pillar. the modernised europass can now play its full part in actively supporting these rights. together, we can deliver on our commitment to making the most of people’s skills. this is good news for individuals, as better matched skills improve their work and life opportunities. however, it is also good news for employers – they can easily find workers with the skills that they need – and it is good news for europe. unlocking people’s talent is the key to competing and succeeding in the global economy. so thank you again for the work you have done.
for the alde group. dear thomas, dear svetoslav, thank you for your cooperation. i have greatly appreciated our positive cooperation from the beginning, from the committee meetings to the conclusion of the trialogue. it's been said that the best way to predict the future is to create it. if we're concerned about the future needs of the labour market, i think it's worth twice as much. europe's prosperity depends on its greatest wealth, and it is not its mineral resources or the latest technology, but it is we europeans who live and work here. in a rapidly changing global world, our skills will be the main driver of our competitiveness. this is why the readiness of graduates matters, because their integration into the labour market will enable them to pursue interesting and qualified jobs and lead better lives. a new version of europass, adapted to new technologies and specific needs, is the answer to how to further support and make people's skills visible. with the new europass, they will be able to present their skills and qualifications more easily and choose from job opportunities across europe. europass is an important tool for promoting labour mobility. travel for work is an important solution to reduce unemployment, especially among young people, which is alarming in some countries and regions. i believe that the potential for labour mobility remains untapped in europe. we should therefore be encouraging young europeans to gain not only study but also work experience abroad. moving beyond the comfort and security of home and facing foreign competition will give them confidence and insight. and that's the kind of europeans we need.
mr president, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs who have made it possible for the approval of the revision of europass to proceed so quickly. for 12 years, europass has been a welcome, free european service for anyone wishing to obtain information on skills and qualifications, and also helps to increase mobility within the common market for workers and services. i would like to take this opportunity to say that i am glad that this legislation has not encountered the same problems as the e-card, which was also intended to facilitate the provision of services in the internal market. of course, this modernisation is necessary because it does not make sufficient use of digital services, so in this sense it is a welcome modernisation of this tool. the work of the europass national centres should also be improved. mr president, i believe i had a minute and a half, but if not, i'd like to close by thanking everyone for their cooperation, and i believe that europass will serve.
mr president, i would like to support this proposal for a regulation and report because it adapts the existing europass services to the needs and expectations of users and providers, students and jobseekers, workers and employers. the main objectives are simplification, transparency, interoperability across member states and efficiency. and because it turns out that it's underutilized by certain social groups that are not fully digitally literate, i think it's very important to increase that quality, which is to have digital use. interest in europass is also growing in the czech republic, with over two hundred thousand people using it in 2015. on the other hand, i'm not entirely sure that the requirement of anonymous cvs to prevent discrimination, which i understand, is entirely correct. i'll think about it.
mr president, this year is the european year of cultural heritage and i am very pleased that we can support the cultural activities of young people. i will vote in favour of this regulation because i consider it necessary for the european union youth orchestra to be able to start its transformation. i think we have to give it time to really turn into a sustainable project, independent of the funding that is allocated from the creative europe programme. of course, it can and should continue to ask for public support after 2020, but it should be more independent, its funding should be transparent. we know very well, ladies and gentlemen, that in europe we have dozens of quality orchestras, youth orchestras, and i really do not know why there should be a single one here that is financed exclusively from european funds, which are guaranteed in this way. let them compete and fight for their quality.
madam president, one of the priorities of european transport policy is to decarbonise transport. however, if we are serious about driving cleaner vehicles in the european union, it is important that the deployment of alternative fuels infrastructure is really accelerated, both on the trans-european transport network and in urban and suburban areas. the commission notes that the measure is not intended to promote the use of renewable energy sources, but to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the transport sector. in the abovementioned communication of may last year, the commission recognises that a substantial increase in the number of publicly accessible charging points is necessary if these objectives are to be met. why, then, instead of a revised version of the directive, in which it would have proposed how to achieve this, did it simply come up with a non-binding communication?
the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the maldives, and i think that the situation has not improved at all, as far as we know today, but has actually worsened. i am therefore very pleased that we have reached agreement on this resolution across political parties and across political currents in the european parliament. so far, the european union, i think, has tried to have a constructive dialogue with the maldivian representatives, even though it has said what is wrong and what is not wrong. but at the moment we have to go to some kind of sanctions, we cannot wait any longer and watch what is happening in the maldives today. we have to look at the fact that the human rights and political situation in the country is constantly deteriorating, that there is a restriction of human rights and freedoms, an expansion of the powers of the president, a polarization of the judiciary. what we fear most is the reintroduction of the death penalty. opposition leaders are seeking to restore pluralistic democracy and the rule of law. however, they are repeatedly attacked by the authorities and the police. they even have lawsuits being engineered against them. all states active in the maldives, including major players such as india and china, should therefore be called upon to work with the european union to re-establish democratic principles in the country.
madam president, i would like to join my speakers in describing the situation in the maldives. indeed, our key interests should be free elections and courts that are independent and impartial. president yameen is acting against civil society, he has declared a state of emergency, which may end, but in any case, the declaration of a state of emergency has only escalated the situation. i think that the european union should do more at the diplomatic level to calm the situation. maybe there's not much we can do. we should also tell the citizens that the sunny skies where they spend their holidays are a country that declares a state of emergency that wants to introduce the death penalty. i think this message should reach our citizens very urgently because the situation in the maldives is very complex and it is also the subject of certain great power struggles between china and india. if i have to choose which side i'm on in this situation, then of course i'm on the side of the maldivian people and, say, pro-western democratic india.
for the ppe group. madam president, sudan is violating virtually all basic human rights. the european union must support those in sudan who are fighting for their observance. i demand the release of all those who are unlawfully detained for human rights. the symbolic representative of all such prisoners is salih mahmoud usman, winner of the 2007 sakharov prize. sudan punishes with imprisonment and torture the exercise of freedom of expression or assembly. it fundamentally limits the existence or the emergence of an independent press, it limits the activities of international humanitarian non-profit organizations. it doesn't respect freedom of religion. yes, sudan criminalizes blasphemy or conversion from islam to another religion. christians in sudan are discriminated against and rely on our help. sudan is the fifth worst country in the world for religious freedom.
madam chair, the reason for our urgent resolution is the arrest of hundreds of people protesting in sudan for their human rights. among those detained are academics, journalists, students, as well as religious rights activists, freedom of religion, christians. the most well-known name is lawyer salih mahmoud usman, who represents and defends human rights defenders. he's seriously ill and lacks medical care. it also testifies that people in prison are tortured, and that is why we must raise our voice to free salih mahmoud usman as soon as possible. he calls on us not to abandon the people of darfur, and so we say to him: 'dear salih usman, we are not abandoning you and we call on the sudanese government to release you and the other prisoners immediately.'
madam president, i would like to join the ranks of all my speakers who are critical of the situation in sudan and who are calling very urgently for the release not only of mr usman, but also of all those imprisoned and unjustly tortured. mr. usman is just one of many, and i think his example is the one that should lead us to really raise our voices very strongly. the situation in sudan is crazy, not just the economic situation, but especially the situation in the field of human rights. in fact, there are virtually no human rights in sudan. there are only those rights that correspond to the state's establishment and its ideology. i think we should be very strongly considering where we send our support in the form of money and whether it can be redirected, for example, to non-profit organizations that are facing very significant problems in sudan today in protecting the weak and the disadvantaged.
the author. madam president, we have been alerted to the killing of innocent people in uganda by a belgian document and the personal testimony of our colleague. we don't know exactly how common and widespread these cases are, but either way, it's a shocking thing that we need to speak out against. we are, of course, always against any violence. the european parliament should take a position on these inhumane practices in its reports on the state of human rights, the humanitarian crisis in africa and the world. i personally have been asking people living in uganda if they have encountered cases of mercy killing, if they can confirm it as a serious threat. i was told that there are cases where health workers have encountered early termination of pregnancy in the case of handicapped children or people with long-term illnesses are left to die. life is worth protecting from conception to natural death. that's why i'm joining you in raising my voice against these practices. i only ask that you judge for yourselves whether this is an urgent resolution of the same urgency that we will adopt to call upon the sudanese government to immediately release and stop the torture of prisoners in sudan. as rapporteur for the group of the european people's party, i therefore recommend abstaining from the vote, but at the same time i would like to thank the rapporteur, my colleague from the group of the alliance of liberals and democrats for europe, for bringing this matter to my attention. i'm not a formalist, it's not just that we lack specific names, events, or testimonies. i want urgent reports to remain urgent and therefore a powerful tool for the european parliament to act immediately. whether we accept this report or not, i would invite the european commission to this debate to monitor the situation, to find out how widespread this practice is and whether it is a systemic issue, not a random one. on the basis of these facts, the european commission should then engage with the ugandan authorities to put an end to the unacceptable inhumane practice.
madam president, i would also like to support my colleagues in describing the events taking place in uganda. killing for mercy is as cruel as murder to me. it's actually different from euthanasia, and even that's somewhat controversial to me. i think it's shocking and every case is really scary, especially when it comes to the disabled, when it comes to superstitions that are very widespread in this state, they touch albinos, gays. i think it's important that we actually find out how common this behavior is, and it's our job to not lose sight of these behaviors and put further pressure on the ugandan government. the pressure on the president must be strong because it will not only affect these negotiations, but also many political prisoners and generally the bad situation that is in uganda.
madam president, i read the report with great amusement. i voted against her. there are such wonderful things, like the european union youth orchestra. i have nothing against it, of course, but when i read here that this orchestra, whose patron is the president of the european parliament and the president of the european commission, did not meet the criteria for funding in 2014 and that therefore he lobbied mr juncker and mr juncker there re-registered the orchestra in his capacity as a body eligible to receive direct financial aid, and that it is about 600 000 eur per year, i really have to laugh at the very different projects that this creative europe title hides. it should be called the creative juncker and i have great doubts whether it is worth supporting, so i am voting against this whole press.
madam president, i certainly recognize the need to fight so-called tax havens, although the big question is what a tax haven is. i think we certainly cannot call a country a tax haven if, by the decision of its own autonomous constitutional bodies, its own government, its own parliament, it keeps its taxes below the necessary average of the european union. i, on the other hand, consider tax competition to be a healthy one and to be the engine of the european economy and of the growth of national economies. i regard any attempt to create a common tax base as a sort of gradual, stealthy intrusion into the tax sovereignty of the member states. i think that this is not the end, it is just the beginning, that from these bases we then come to tax rates, first to indirect taxes, then to direct taxes, and that is why i could not support this report. i think it's opening up pandora's box and it's very dangerous.
mr. chairman, i thought we had one-minute speeches until tonight. i would like to point out that the rules of procedure require that at this time, the person who wishes to speak must always state the item on which he wishes to speak, which is not done by the other members of the committee. please be a smaller democrat in the future and follow the rules.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, commissioner, the adoption of these two regulations on emissions, which are not currently covered by the eu ets, will finally complete the legislative process for the climate package. all sectors must be involved in meeting the commitments under the paris agreement. even those that have long avoided doing their part to solve the problem, such as forestry, transportation, buildings, agriculture, or waste management. the commission considers that the commission's approach to the application of the principle of proportionality is based on the principle of proportionality. the mandate of parliament was much more ambitious. however, since the effort sharing regulation is not the only framework for reducing emissions and since other regulations implementing the objectives set out in it, such as the proposal on co2 for cars, are due to enter into force, i would urge that both proposals be adopted without any problems, although i have a number of reservations about them. but if we are to meet the paris commitments, we must begin to implement them in practical terms.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. – mr president, before starting to utilise my speaking time, i want to extend my apology that immediately afterwards i will have to return to the bureau as there is a meeting. just so you understand that, for a topic so close to my heart, truly so, unfortunately i cannot be here for the whole debate. very briefly on the topic: i think nobody in this house would doubt that sustainability is absolutely crucial, both in environmental as well as industrial terms. what we now have at hand is a very solid package of legislation. with instruments like eco—design, or legislation on package labelling or energy efficiency and so on we are creating a regulatory environment that can work. what do we do need though, is to change the mindset. the legislation has to be implemented, but it also has to be encouraged. we cannot take it for granted. that is why maybe i would focus also the attention of the member states on something that, as the shadow in the committee on industry, research and energy (itre) on all the proposals, among other things i came up with an annex which basically consists of the incentives that can be provided. the mindset, the incentives and the regulatory environment can work, so i very much hope that we will have a very positive and strong vote on that this week.
the rapporteur of the committee on industry, research and energy. mr president, madam rapporteur, europe currently produces more than 2.5 billion tonnes of waste a year, and only a third of it is reused or recycled. i think we clearly need new, modernized waste legislation to accelerate the transition to a fully circular economic model. and although the legislative proposals we have here are the result of long negotiations and compromises, i think they will make a significant contribution to a completely fundamental change in waste management. in particular, they set clear targets for reducing waste, preventing it from being generated or strengthening the waste hierarchy. i therefore very much welcome, for example, the increase of the reuse and recycling target to 70% of the total waste volume. or the construction waste measures. of course, in some areas we could be more ambitious than is proposed. for example, i still think that reducing food waste by 50% by 2030 is not enough. or the rate of reducing the amount of waste and litter in the seas could also still be higher. however, i support the compromise and i call on mrs bonafide to support this proposal.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, allow me to thank you not only on my own behalf but also on behalf of our colleague, who has left the european parliament, mr josua, who has always been very pleased to work with you. i must say that i welcome the agreement negotiated by the european presidency at the end of last year. however, as with the previous climate package, i have mixed emotions as a result. i hope the package's acceptance will lead to more recycling. the new rules set legally binding targets for recycling and limiting landfilling. however, the european parliament's objectives were more ambitious than those set out in the final text. in fact, some targets were postponed by five years, against the commission's proposal. however, i understand that further clinging to targets that member states are unable to meet would not lead anywhere and would only delay the start of this much needed legislation. personally, i still lack the necessary eco-design review in the package, which i have long considered to be the key to establishing a true circular economy.
for the ppe group. madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for identifying the areas of environmental protection which are most lacking in terms of meeting the objectives set by the member states of the european union and by the union as a whole. however, in addition to the necessary improvement in the implementation of the adopted legislation, it is also appropriate to make the financing at eu level more efficient. not that there's not enough money, but it's mostly mismanagement of that money. i personally think it's very important to note that the greatest environmental threats to health are most evident in those urban areas themselves, but also in those suburban areas, in those adjacent areas, the so-called suburbanization areas. it should be stressed that emissions of air pollutants, together with unbalanced spatial planning and infrastructure, have immense economic and environmental impacts, as well as impacts on human health. member states, including my home country, the czech republic, should therefore make greater efforts to implement european legislation.
for the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, i congratulate mrs sârbuová, i am very pleased that my amendments on pesticides and endocrine disruptors have passed the committee, because the situation with chemicals is rather unfavourable. this is particularly evident in priority objective 3, where we focus on protecting union citizens from environmental pressures and risks affecting their health. the report concludes that it is not entirely clear whether the eu will be able to meet its targets for measuring and reducing exposure to chemicals that harm human health and the environment. we are also still not doing well in ensuring the sustainable use of pesticides and the ep is therefore focusing on this issue in two further own-initiative implementation reports. unfortunately, as regards the implementation of the plant protection products regulation 1107/2009, the research results are quite alarming and only confirm the justification for the establishment of a special parliament committee on eu authorisation procedures for pesticides.
i'm the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to present the report on gender equality in the media sector in the european union. i worked on this report with my colleagues on the committee on women's rights and gender equality, whom i would like to thank. the european parliament is well aware of the enormous influence of the media on society. this is why we are interested in how they work. we believe that women's voices should be heard more clearly in all areas, including the media. i believe that the media and society deserve more influence from women. women are just as talented as men. women account for 68% of journalism graduates and 40% of media employees, but the gender pay gap is 17%. women are much less often cited as experts, at around 18%. according to the study, only 20% of films are directed by women. the main problem is the representation of women in media in senior positions (33%). such a disproportion has effects on content, media orientation and organisational culture. the internal culture is often unfavourable to work-life balance. this is a competitive environment characterised by stress and rigid deadlines. so if we want to support and encourage women, we have to change their working conditions. eu legislation provides a framework for the operation of audiovisual services and provisions to ensure equal opportunities in employment and protection against discrimination, harassment and sexual violence. but there are many other aspects that are outside the scope of the legislation. we believe that the solution lies in the strict implementation of existing legislation. we are not proposing any new regulations. we call on the member states and the industry to implement positive measures to ensure that women are represented more equitably and to introduce quotas where possible and necessary. the eu directive on women on boards of directors gives us a path forward and criteria to follow, and explains how to monitor balance, support and promote training for professionals in the sector, share examples of good practice (e.g. the directories of female experts such as expertalia in belgium or campaigns against sexist advertising such as the sexist piggy price in the czech republic), and introduce work-life balance measures. our report deplores the sexism and the abundance of sexual harassment in the media. the european parliament's proposal extends the scope of this ban to video on demand and video-sharing platforms. our job, our business, is to make sure that women are better represented in the media and treated with respect. i would like to thank all my collaborators once again for their work, and i hope that it will be followed by results.
madam president, i would like to thank all those who took part in the discussion for their opinions and criticisms. i would like to thank you, commissioner, for your work and your efforts in the field of reconciling family and working life. women and men are complementary. so if we want to improve the quality of the media, we need to increase the participation of women by leveraging their presence and potential in the media. i believe that the member states and the european union have a common responsibility: we must develop opportunities and improve conditions for women to exercise their freedom of choice. that's our job. our report deals with this freedom of choice and these opportunities. i therefore thank all those who contributed to this report.
the development cooperation, humanitarian aid instruments and the european development fund are, madam president, undoubtedly very important and fundamental issues. they should also include a consistency debate. the european union certainly boasts of helping where it is needed, but is this whole debate completely irrelevant when we are sending our bombs and weapons to some countries in addition to food? is it not hypocritical to destroy these countries without the approval of the un and is it not shameful to complicate the already incredibly complex and explosive situation in these countries? the resolution stresses that: 'a response to global problems will only be effective if it is shared'. but the attack on syria was led by only three countries, two of which were eu members, undermining the eu's reputation as a potential mediator and peacemaker in the entire region, which is known to never forget. partners have to trust us, and tomahawks don't build trust.
madam president, i would like to stress the need for the eu to finally start addressing this issue. as the report mentions, sufficient protein stocks are indeed a necessity for the union's food security self-sufficiency. it's not entirely happy that the eu is dependent on importing any raw material from outside in general. especially when it's china that indirectly holds the upper hand in this area. we need to ensure that we are self-sufficient in protein crop stocks or that we have sufficient imports of these raw materials from reliable and partner countries that do not threaten us with possible future import problems or with extremely rapid stopping of supplies. i personally support the idea of securing these raw materials ourselves and of adhering to the principles of sustainable development, and if we cannot do it ourselves, then we should turn to partner countries such as ukraine.
madam president, i believe it is important to take action against bad loans to badly functioning debt-ridden countries. this is indeed a good thing, both for the eu and, of course, for the individual countries, but the aim should be to ensure sustainable development. that's exactly what the 2030 strategy describes. this is important in my view only with countries that are meeting certain objectives and are moving in the right direction, because giving funds to corrupt and bad rulers in africa, that is not, i think, the objective of the european union. we should not play with public opinion and the wishes of our citizens, because they too would not want to gamble with the eu project as such and to provide these loans to unreliable partners who do not care about our policies and let's say our visions, that i think is not a step in the right direction.
madam president, i believe there are some topics that we don't need to discuss in the 21st century. nevertheless, this year the annual march was held again to celebrate latvian veterans who fought alongside the german nazis during world war ii. once again, ss veterans could uninterruptedly recall their crimes against humanity in an area that had experienced the horrors of the holocaust firsthand. i find it appalling that these marches are still taking place, and i want to thank everyone who is protesting against them. nazis belong in sewers or prisons, not on the streets, where they can present their twisted version of history. if the eu is to play the role of moral authority, it must stand up to these marches with strength and resilience and stop them. we owe it to ourselves and to those who have experienced the nazi monstrosities firsthand. i therefore call on the european commission and the european council to do the same.
madam president, last week the commission presented a new consumer policy and, as part of it, a legislative package which identifies as a deceptive and illegal practice the sale of food in the same packaging and with the same brand but with a different composition. i very much welcome this initiative, because from the beginning of my mandate i have been campaigning for the commission to tackle the problem of dual quality of food in the european union. and so i am pleased that it was the czech commissioner jourová who brought this new legislation forward. the czech minister of agriculture, marian jurečka, has repeatedly put forward a proposal for a solution in the council of ministers. and i also want to emphasise that it was other czech colleagues, in particular olga sehnal, who has been working on this issue for a long time. of course, the work has been done by ministers and members from other member states, and we will need to join forces and bring this legislation to a successful conclusion in the legislative process for the benefit of consumers in the internal market.
madam president, i would like to devote a minute to the future of cohesion funds, because i consider this a very important subject. the european commission will present a proposal for the future of cohesion policy next month. this is what the states, the regions and, of course, all the beneficiaries of this aid are waiting for. i would very much like cohesion policy to have, despite challenges such as brexit or the new challenges of the defence community, sufficient resources to help the development of poor regions, because to focus on reducing the gap between regions, that is, i think, the main backbone of europeanism, the eu. the achievement of the thematic objectives should certainly remain, but i think it would be good if the commission also heard the calls from the member states concerning their needs. and what's our biggest pain, i think it's important to mention simplification. simplification, simplification, because it is often the excessive bureaucracy that holds back the use of european funds.
madam president, commissioner, the europeans have been through a difficult time. together, they have created a community of peace and respect for democratic principles. democracy, the rule of law, freedom of speech, equality, these are constant values. but we've forgotten that the principles we choose to live by are not self-evident. today, the foundations of democratic institutions, such as the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary, are being undermined. i am thinking particularly of central europe. poland, hungary, the czech republic and slovakia. the media is often under political pressure. in this situation, it is necessary to support civil society. it can fight successfully for the preservation of european values. we need a tool that would financially support civil society. it's gonna be some of the best money ever spent. i support the motion for a resolution.
in writing. mr president, welcome to the debate on europe. i would like to discuss two points with you. first, the safety. as regards the dublin regulation, i ask you to find a consensus, to allow a unanimous vote on this key issue and not to place the citizens of the eastern european countries in a minority situation. we all want peace in syria. the attack may have been necessary, but as a believer in the common foreign and security policy, i would have expected common coordination. however, the intervention took place without consulting the european partners. secondly, the free market. since 2016, your name has been linked to the macron law, the law that angers foreign drivers and their employers. your name is linked to protectionism. this policy limits and reduces, in my view, the competitiveness of firms in the internal market. mr president, do you think we can be competitive with china if we build internal barriers to business development? if europe is not to experience new exits from states, we need to regain a sense of mutual trust. i wish you luck and thank you in advance for your replies.
mr president, i have endorsed mr denonato's report. i think it is very important that the eu finally addresses this issue, because, as the report rightly points out, sufficient protein supplies are indeed a necessity for the self-sufficiency of the union and the member states, especially in terms of food security. it is not entirely happy that the eu is dependent on another partner country for any raw material, let alone food or protein. so to be self-sufficient, that's really important. being dependent on a country like china is very shortsighted. so i want to push for the eu to address this issue and to look for very reliable partners and allies, like ukraine, for example, because this country is supposed to have our support, and i think that in this area of protein security we can find new areas of cooperation and mutually encourage further cooperation for the next period.
mr president, i have finally voted in favour of the report, and i must say that i regret that some of the amendments tabled by our group were not adopted, but i think that the report as such will stand without this approval. they weren't the key points for us. in any case, it is very important to me that the rapporteur has identified precisely the areas where europe and its member states are not meeting the environmental objectives they have set themselves. it's very important to me that she mentioned the problem of suburbanization in adjacent urban areas, because it's really a very serious problem. there, people face very significant health and environmental disruptions linked to unbalanced land use planning and infrastructure, with immense economic, social and environmental impacts. and it should be stressed that by 2020, almost 80% of the european population is expected to live in cities and their surrounding areas. that is why it is important to pay attention to them and why i am glad that the rapporteur has mentioned this matter.
the next item is the statement by the vice—president of the commission and high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on progress on un global compacts on safe, orderly and regulation migration and on refugees.
ms morvai, i do not think there is any reason to enter into polemics separating you and your political party from all the rest, portrayed as corrupt politicians. i hope that was just a misunderstanding on my part.
ms sippel, you are off the microphone. i think that you should show sufficient courtesy to your colleagues by respecting in the same way the time slot that you have received. the moment the president asks you to cease further comments, i would appreciate it if you would do so.
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, i would like to ask you how you would deal with the migration crisis in this case. what specific solutions do you propose? have you ever been to africa? have you ever been to a debate with african statesmen? did you know that many african countries benefit from having their workers work in europe or other developed countries? what would you suggest as a solution?
mr president, this document, in which parliament refers to all its international commitments and repeatedly stresses the protection of human rights in the context of migration, is certainly needed. but it contains a number of vague phrases: the need for states to unite in the fight against migration, the question of resources and shared responsibility. the document merely states the situation, but offers no solutions. ladies and gentlemen, we know that migration is a global problem, that it is necessary for the eu to take a stand as an international actor and to engage in dialogue with the un. but we need to find a rational solution. we need to talk directly to african countries and tell them how we're going to deal with the migration crisis. and we really need to tell who is a real migrant and who is a refugee. we also have to say to ourselves that we will not be circumventing the rules in the future, that there will not be people walking across the european union and saying which countries they will and will not live in. if someone is at risk, they should accept the first member state's offer and undergo the procedure in that state. and we other states should help this procedure to be done as quickly as possible. only by asking ourselves a clear question can we seek the right answer. and unfortunately, that was not stated in this document.
mr president, i agree that the wave of migration is simply a challenge to which the un and the eu must respond with a coordinated approach. we should take into account the situation of children and women in particular. however, i have serious reservations about the draft un charter and the european parliament resolution. first of all, the un global compact sees migration as a great and positive opportunity. i just don't subscribe to that view, because i see migration to europe in the wave of migration that we're experiencing as a problem. second, resettlement programmes would have to remain voluntary and the eu cannot seek to make them binding. and finally, third, legal refugee routes must not act as a motivating pull factor for mass migration. i believe that the eu's priority should be peace and respect for the human rights of citizens in their countries of origin.
mr president, a few hours ago, a communist member of this european parliament's plenary commented on the intervention of the united states, britain and france in syria. she said, "i hate the american notion of democracy exported to the main guns and missiles". it's not an isolated incident. the communist parties of a number of european countries are openly collaborating with the assad regime and kremlin russia. in a situation where russia is waging a hybrid war against the eu, supporting it is a dangerous collaboration. are you aware, madam high representative, that the european communists have declared a new, intensified phase of the leninist class struggle in europe? all proposals to re-establish a joint investigation mechanism against chemical weapons, all 11 security council resolutions, with the enthusiastic approval of the communists, have been blocked by the russian federation. what proof do you need that communism is a crime?
mr president, from whom do i have a blue card?
mr. chairman, i just wanted to ask if the person who's challenging me is a member of the communist party, because i don't discuss with members of the communist party in public. if it isn't, i'd be happy to hear the question.
no, i won't accept the question. (the speaker rejected the question put by takis hadjigeorgiou by raising his blue card.)
in writing. the syrian conflict is slowly but surely entering a new phase. al-qaeda and other radical elements have been driven from most of the enclaves in the densely populated western part of the state. the islamic state appears to have only controlled some rural areas somewhere in southeastern syria and adjacent iraq, with most of the fighters already moving elsewhere. the united states currently has approximately 2,000 troops in syria, primarily in the northern part of the country controlled by kurdish forces. it is likely that turkey's efforts to weaken kurdish forces will continue in the near future, and at the same time a very likely syrian military advance against idlib can be expected. it is almost certain that a series of heartbreaking images will be released to show the cruelty of the syrian army. we may well face another chemical weapons charge, and we may also expect to be served with a charge from the white helmets in the uk. it is high time for the eu to change its attitude and start giving real help to the war-torn country. the absurd accusations of white helmets, reproduced by secretary johnson and other leading eu politicians, will try to prevent the adoption of appropriate decisions. this is why it is necessary to reconsider the attitude towards the regime of bashar al-assad and adopt an appropriate programme to help rebuild the war-torn country and thus enable refugees to return to their homeland.
madam president, the european union's relationship with russia reminds me of a rabbit staring into the eyes of a cobra. the eu's foreign policy towards russia is cautious and fails to give the right name to relations with russia. this is a dangerous game, madam high representative. russia is waging an information war against us, the european union. its aim is to dismantle the european union. after russia's territorial plundering in ukraine, georgia, moldova, after provocations against the baltics, after the intervention in syria, after the deployment of russian iskander offensive missiles in the kaliningrad region aimed at eu member states, it is time to clearly identify the russian federation as a security risk. we are not afraid of russia, mrs. mogherini. let us fear for russia, let us fear for its weak democracy, let us fear for the russian people and the other peoples of the russian federation.
madam chairman, we are addressing the situation in russia for the first time and very shortly after the presidential election. and i would like to say that i was very impressed by the congratulatory speech of commission president juncker. he obviously failed to take into account the fact that the russian regime has suppressed the possibility of the candidacy of the anti-candidates, the strong anti-candidates. boris nemtsov was murdered, garri kasparov is in exile or alexei navalny was not allowed to vote. i think that the european institutions should avoid congratulations like this and should not give the appearance of legitimacy to the russian elections. the eu should not turn a blind eye to human rights violations in an undemocratic system. the second point concerns support for ukraine. i strongly agree that the eu is united and that sanctions should continue.
mr president, i would like to join my colleagues in calling for the right course of action in this peace process. i think the eu's role should not be marginal, it's the right signal we want to send. at the same time, i think it's important to condemn the brutality of this regime, which i think is one of the most brutal. what he does for his own people, his heinous crimes, should not be forgotten. on the other hand, we are now dealing with the question of disarmament, or at least some kind of peaceful future. and here it is important to say that the eu should stand by our allies. to support this peace process unequivocally and in particular the role of the un and, of course, our ally the usa. if kim jong-un doesn't respect this process, this process will not be completed. it is important to really target sanctions so that the regime collapses at its foundations as soon as possible.
mr. chairman, the current developments on the korean peninsula give us hope for a peaceful solution. and from what i'm hearing, we all welcome north korea's openness to further negotiations. her willingness to communicate is the first step to negotiating denuclearization and de-escalation. so we have high expectations for the upcoming talks, especially the meeting between the north korean leadership and the united states. but if the north korean leadership is truly interested in finding a solution, then i strongly hope that they will also show willingness to engage in multilateral diplomacy and negotiations. we still remember the very hopeful prospects of marching together under one flag at the olympics, but that must not obscure the fact that 120,000 political prisoners are undergoing inhuman treatment in labour camps. the negotiations on peace and the elimination of nuclear weapons must therefore also be linked to human rights.
for the alde group. mr president, i thank the rapporteur and my colleagues on the cont committee for continuing to look at the discharge process in a new way. as rapporteur for the european commission's 2014 discharge main report, i was already working to ensure that discharge was seen as a meaningful part of the life cycle of european citizens' funds. so i'm pleased that the focus on performance and error prevention is becoming a bigger part of the report. on the one hand, there is a need for the control mechanisms to function, i.e. to ensure the efficient, effective and economical use of the union budget. on the other hand, it is desirable to look to the future, to learn from mistakes, to share examples of good practice and to focus in particular on concrete results and projects with high added value that raise the standard of living of eu citizens. the union budget and european policies have a common objective to deliver results that cannot be achieved individually but only as part of a larger whole. each member state is a beneficiary, wherever the european budget is spent.
mr. chairman, i will not be continuing this rather domestic exchange of views, which concerns primarily the united kingdom and brexit. i can only express my delight that the treaty base between the eu and australia is deepening after a period of stagnation that lasted not months but perhaps years, that there is finally a free trade agreement being negotiated here and that there are other agreements like this one that just contribute to the eu finally realizing how important a partner australia is in the pacific. i can only express the hope that it will continue.
mr president, i sometimes feel that we in this house, or in the european institutions in general, set ourselves rather unrealistic goals. i would very much like to see us set realistic targets for waste management. the original proposal that was approved here a year ago was not realistic in my view, and this compromise proposal that we have approved today, which i supported, i consider to be much more realistic. i think it's important that we really build a circular economy and not direct our waste streams in one direction, for example, to landfills or incineration. we need to motivate the municipalities, but also the ordinary consumers, the producers to be responsible, and i think that this compromise has perhaps succeeded. i would love to see the plastic problem addressed after china's turn, because that's probably our biggest pain, we should be able to handle plastic at home and not export it.
mr. chairman, first of all, let's be clear that this vote was not about a witch hunt. it was a legitimate criticism of the way the european commission acted before, during and after mr selmayr's appointment. and the commission may be a hundred times right about formal compliance with procedures, but it has fatally failed when it comes to, say, artistic impression or image and has damaged its own reputation. it gave the impression that it was a pre-planned action, according to mr juncker's memo, to somehow preserve his legacy when he is no longer the head of the european commission. it questioned future similar appointments and raised serious suspicions of the politicisation of the european commission bureaucracy, which should be neutral. so this vote doesn't end it, we'll get back to it, i'll get back to it. i am in opposition to this commission, i did not vote for it and i can only say that the commission has given us a good deal of money ahead of next year's european elections.
madam president, the issue of the leak of personal data from facebook has perhaps paradoxically helped people to become aware and to realize that they also have a greater responsibility personally, but also the state and the european union. given the way social networks influence people's thinking, there is a great risk to our democracy and free decision-making. i consider the use of data for disinformation campaigns, especially in russia, but also in other countries, to be a very serious problem, which affects the results of elections and political developments in western countries and in the eu. but this cannot be taken lightly and the eu institutions dealing with this need to be strengthened. for example, stratcom, with its budget of 1.5 million euros and a small team of people, cannot face the disinformation industry that supports russia. so i'm very grateful that president tajani invited mark zuckerberg to the european parliament. he should come out and say what he's going to do to prevent the abuse of facebook user data from happening again. the european union, our citizens have more accounts than the united states, so it's only fitting that he explain here what the next steps will be. it is also right, commissioner, that you are dealing with facebook and leading this company to greater accountability and to take clear action.
madam president, i think there is a high degree of consensus in this house, which is rare, but i think that the issue requires that to be the case. i think that clearly there are systemic issues related to data protection. clearly there are criminal issues which concern facebook ethically, but there is also a question of a business model. but one element, while it has been mentioned, did not dominate today’s debate, and i think it is absolutely crucial, because the very fundamentals of our democracy might have been affected. this is the engagement intervention into elections, most likely throughout eu member states. i would say that this is serious and something that we need to know more about. i want to know more about who the clients were, what the business really entailed and, if we all want to know that, i think that we need to take measures to find out, as sensitive and explosive as it may be.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the anti-money laundering directive (amld) is an essential part of the eu regulatory framework to combat financial crime and terrorist financing. still, we have clearly seen gaps in some of its current provisions which need to be addressed, as recommended also by the ep pana committee. if properly implemented by the member states, the improvements made to the directive can address these loopholes. i thank the co-rapporteurs and the shadows for their work. it was not easy at all with the council. the national anti-money laundering units’ powers will be strongly reinforced, thus allowing them to better follow the money and detect suspicious transactions. these new rules provide for more transparency, including public access to the information about who really owns the companies involved in a financial transaction. it applies to some extent to trusts as well. i call now on the member states not to delay the implementation of this revised amld which i hope will be adopted by the plenary tomorrow. several member states still haven’t implemented the previous directive, although they were required to do so as from july 2017. the european parliament’s taxe committee will closely monitor the implementation process of these new rules.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, almost three years have almost passed since the dieselgate scandal broke, and a little over two years have passed since the commission proposed a revised type-approval regulation. we finally vote tomorrow on this important file, and we can now say that the eu is reacting effectively to the scandal and delivering strong legislation – legislation that will help restore consumers’ trust and make sure our common rules are fully respected. it was obvious that the eu needed upgraded legislation in this matter so that there are no more loopholes such as have been used in the past by some manufacturers to bypass the eu’s rules. i am convinced that the trilogue negotiations were able to reach this goal, and i hope this house sees it in a similar way. personally, i am glad that this new law will help to fix the system by introducing clear rules on market surveillance, with specific targets for the member states to meet. this set of measures is, in my view, a major benefit of this regulation which should help to solve the situation on eu roads. it also gives new competences to the commission to intervene. both member states and the commission can act not only when type-approving a vehicle, but also when the vehicle is in production or in use. there will be enhanced control over member states’ authorities, both issuing type-approvals and carrying out market surveillance, as well as technical services and other relevant stakeholders. key now is the proper implementation and enforcement of this regulation. i am also glad that a new system of strict penalties has been introduced which could be imposed on manufacturers in case they produce and place on market non-compliant vehicles. in general, i believe that this outcome meets adequately our expectations and provides a robust and reliable framework which fits with our ambitions in the area of protection of the environment and protection of consumers’ rights.
commissioner, the revision of the motor vehicle approval regulation is a natural and inevitable response to the contradiction that has arisen between the rules that have been set, their actual implementation and the supervision that should, throughout the internal market, detect any irregularities in good time. the strict separation of approval and market surveillance authorities, the obligation to share information in case of identified deficiencies or the possibility to check vehicles already placed on the market will contribute to greater transparency of the whole system and will allow for a level playing field for all actors. any disagreement with the legislation should not be ultimately borne by the final consumer. on the contrary, consumers should be entitled to claim compensation if they suffer damage. i therefore also welcome the proposal for a so-called new consumer policy, which is intended to complement existing instruments enabling consumers to assert their rights and to introduce a class action institute.
madam president, although it is so late, i consider it very important that we can hear this debate here, and above all that i have heard the commissioner and his answer. the concern and the responsibility for this issue is evident, because it is a serious health problem that is arising among citizens in all member states today. we understand the parents' concerns, first of all, they don't have the information and they're worried about the different reactions to the vaccination. however, it is the responsibility of doctors to be better prepared and able to explain this need to parents. there is a lot of speculation going around these days, theories that many parents simply succumb to when they don't have a good education. the incidence that the commissioner was talking about, it's almost doubled to 14,500 infections last year. in the czech republic, too, there were 146 cases last year, up from 7 in 2016, so the increase is huge and really the eu has to respond. so thank you for your approach, commissioner.
for the ppe group. madam president, today we are voting on how to better protect victims of crime across the eu, which in practice is particularly the case for victims of domestic violence. so far, this type of protection has been weak. a woman who is subject to domestic violence can apply for a national protection order, which prevents the abusive husband from entering, for example, the apartment they share. the moment a woman leaves her country (for vacation or work) to go to another country, she is already underprotected from the rapist. why would you do that? according to 2010 statistics, eight years ago, some 120 000 women in the eu who had been subject to violence received a national protection order. the vast majority of them are unaware that they can be protected in other member states. to date, only 7 (in words seven) european protection orders have been issued. this is due to the failure of member states to communicate widely to victims the possibility of international protection and the reprehensible lack of information about this instrument. our report calls on the judiciary and the professionals who defend victims to change that. victims of violence must be informed of their rights.
madam president, i would like to thank mrs łybacka and the others who have prepared this report, which can also be an important starting point for the ministerial meeting in paris. the bologna process is one of the few pan-european programmes and we can criticise it for being a bit cumbersome or for some undesirable side effects. it's actually a collaboration of 48 different countries at the intergovernmental level, and it's also important to know that it's being done in an academically independent environment under changing political conditions. and in this situation, of course, the process is slow, but it also depends on how it's done by the independent universities. and i think that's the right thing to do. at eu level, we have erasmus+, which creates a common study area, and we want the bologna process to be carried out within this common european area. so i thank my colleagues and i believe that this is a good basis for a ministerial conference.
mr president, cooperation with belarus must be encouraged, but only if belarus fulfils its promises, i.e. respects human rights. that's not happening, and i want to give you one clear example. charter 97 has been in force in belarus for many years. charter 97 was a web portal that lukashenko blocked and shut down and had to move abroad. for us, for the czechs and slovaks, this is very important, because the charter 97 of belarus was based on charter 77, which our former president václav havel once helped to build. we, the czech and slovak delegations, have therefore approached commissioner hahn and mrs mogherini to inform them of this sad fact. i think it would be good if the commission looked into this.
i think that to repeat something about the situation in the philippines here is like bringing owls to athens. i think anyone who's been following the situation in the philippines knows about the rising number of murders linked to the war on illegal drugs. the continuing human rights violations, the arrest of senator leila de lima on charges of alleged drug-related crimes, have been reported by all the world's media. and the eu has long called for her release and a fair trial. the prosecutor of the international criminal court recently opened a preliminary investigation into the situation in the philippines. we are particularly concerned about the situation with the philippine president and his statements that are directed against women. we are also concerned about the increasing number of killings, violence, intimidation and harassment of human rights defenders, trade unionists, farmers and their families. ladies and gentlemen, we've witnessed a number of murders in the philippines in connection with the drug campaign. and that is why we have prepared a resolution today calling on the philippine government and all philippine officials to start taking a serious look at the situation and to try to really change the situation.
mr president, i wish to make a statement to support the consensus that has been reached on a sensitive subject such as the situation in the gaza strip. the resolution addresses specific cases of persons detained by hamas in the gaza strip and calls for their release. the killing of civilians is unacceptable to us, whether committed by either side. we call for a de-escalation of violence on both sides, as the gaza strip is becoming an uninhabitable zone, which contributes to the radicalization of its population. the most important message of this resolution, which is different from all previous ones, is the recognition that israel faces great security challenges and that it must protect its territory and borders using appropriate means. the resolution condemns the terrorist attacks on israel from the gaza strip by hamas and other militant groups, including the launching of rockets, and i therefore support the resolution.
madam president, i have supported the directive which proposes measures against the use of financial systems for money laundering or terrorist financing. i believe that this directive does exactly what citizens expect from the union. terrorist financing is closely linked to criminal activity and money laundering. moreover, these phenomena know no borders and, on the contrary, take advantage of the fact that countries do not sufficiently inform each other, do not cooperate or have different rules. it is therefore logical that there is legislation at union level. i consider particularly important those measures which remove the anonymity of ownership and of monetary transactions beyond a certain limit, which must at the same time be sufficiently low. i believe that this directive will help to improve the situation against money laundering and terrorism.
madam president, it is important that today the european parliament has adopted a call for the protection of investigative journalists in europe. the media is a pillar of democracy, which is why we need investigative, courageous journalists. i appreciate the protests in slovakia that are putting pressure on the investigation into the murder of jan kuciak and his girlfriend. we cannot tolerate that after a long time in malta there is still no progress in the investigation of the murder of the maltese journalist caruana galizia, who was also a figure in the investigation, in the investigative work against political corruption. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of journalists and the protection of the rights of journalists, in particular by ensuring that the eu's rules on the protection of journalists are respected. a journalist in a free society cannot live in fear.
madam president, i did not vote for this resolution and i look at it, i must say, with great suspicion. it certainly sounds very noble to talk about a european instrument to support ngos that will promote democracy, the rule of law and fundamental values, but i know how things work here, and i am very worried that this fund will become a tool for the propaganda of the only correct and permissible idea about the eu and european integration, that is, that it will be hidden behind the support for deepening european integration, strengthening european institutions, and that taxpayers' money, public funds, are really not suitable for this. i hope that the european parliament will properly monitor how these funds are used, how they are allocated, and that they will be distributed according to objective criteria, not according to party criteria, not according to criteria of who is friends with whom and who is the only one who has the right views. i am very much afraid of this because we have seen this happen several times in the past and therefore i could not vote for this resolution.
madam president, i wish to comment on this report because national parliaments are at the very heart of the democratic legitimacy of the eu and i consider that strengthening their role is the best way to continue to overcome the so-called democratic deficit. i think it is essential that the commission listens to the national parliaments, whose resolutions call for subsidiarity. i welcome the proposal for a 'european week' to set aside one week for european affairs, allowing members of parliament and senators to discuss with representatives of the eu institutions. i think it would help a lot to better understand the processes and the current european issues. that would help to increase transparency. on the contrary, i am sceptical about the new instrument, the so-called minority opinion, because national parliaments would rather appreciate a better response to their reports. unfortunately, the commission's response is usually rather formal, with quality being preferred to quantity.
mr president, i think that this debate should send a very clear signal to luxembourg that in a globalised world, priorities are changing very rapidly and that we need to respond to them in an efficient and flexible way. this also requires effective and flexible instruments such as quick loans, and it is precisely these loans that the european investment bank must be able to provide with the priorities of the european union and must be able to target them to sectors that are so important to the european union. i'd like to give you a few examples. one for all. for example, i think that investments in transport and infrastructure could be used thanks to the european investment bank and could be put and directed to projects that can add value or that can have a leverage effect on the economy of the country. also, investments in start-ups, new technologies, all of this can be realized through these loans, which can have added value for the beneficiaries, because the european investment bank can structure these projects perfectly and can also assess the risk of these projects. and it may actually reflect the commitments of the paris agreement. it can also attract new investors, and i think that's something the european investment bank is not able to do very well at the moment. i would also urge it to make all the projects it supports more visible.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for this very useful, serious and – rightly – emotional debate about the la manada case. i want to recall once again that we need the laws and they must be properly implemented and applied in the member states. at eu level, we have the victims’ rights directive, which must be properly applied. this directive provides specifically that victims of this kind of criminal offence must be treated well. i can imagine the victim of this horrible case – and many other victims – have to repeat again and again what has happened to them and the torture is prolonged. that’s why in the victims’ rights directive, we want the law enforcement authorities to handle these cases with full sensitivity and full professionalism. we also have the european protection order, which needs to be used better, and you are right that more enlightenment, more information and more training of professionals is needed. we desperately need to have the istanbul convention ratified in all the member states because it specifically addresses cases like that. as i said, we seriously need the laws to be in place, and full and good implementation, including the application and interpretation by the european courts is seriously necessary. i am not here to criticise the decisions of the spanish court or any other courts; i just want to say that i do hope that the court of appeal in spain will decide this specific case swiftly and fairly. i want to say one more thing. if the courts do not interpret the law in the proper way so that they interpret rape as rape – and i don’t mean this specific case; i speak in general terms because i really don’t want to criticise the spanish court – if the law is not interpreted properly then the perpetrators will see impunity in these cases. they will see that this is authorised by the state, this is allowed, this is cheap, this is easy. i think that this is not only a legal problem, this is also a hazard. in our society, many people still have a very strong conviction that if a woman is raped or has been raped, she provoked it, she deserved it, she caused it through her own behaviour, and we need to stop this. we need to properly and continuously influence public opinion so that there is lower or zero tolerance in society with regard to these cases. in that regard, the functioning and decision-making of the courts is absolutely essential. again, i hope that the victim of this case receives a fair decision soon and is able to forget the case as soon as possible, if possible. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the la manada case is today in the hands of the spanish courts. as i said at the beginning, the council would not deem it appropriate to comment or interfere in the case, which might still be reviewed by a higher-instance court. i would like to conclude, however, by stressing again that we share the view that violence against women and girls and the protection of its victims is an issue of common concerns that touches upon the core values of the european union. these crimes have no place in the union and should be punished.
i would like to thank everyone who has participated in the debate. i was chairing only a part of it, but i think it is quite a rare occasion when we have such a consensual basis, not just between the institutions but also between the relevant political groups. this just highlights the absolutely unacceptable behaviour that this case is about, with all the consequences that will, of course, have to be dealt with. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission, pursuant to rule 128, on protection of children in migration by: anna maria corazza bildt, roberta metsola, on behalf of the ppe group; birgit sippel, caterina chinnici, sylvie guillaume, dietmar köster, cécile kashetu kyenge, juan fernando lópez aguilar, tanja fajon, josef weidenholzer, soraya post, miltiadis kyrkos, kati piri, vilija blinkevičiūtė, christine revault d'allonnes bonnefoy, emilian pavel, elly schlein, enrique guerrero salom, on behalf of the s&d group; nathalie griesbeck, cecilia wikström, hilde vautmans, sophia in 't veld, on behalf of the alde group; cornelia ernst, dennis de jong, marie-christine vergiat, kostas chrysogonos, martina anderson, malin björk, barbara spinelli, marina albiol guzmán, patrick le hyaric, dimitrios papadimoulis, stelios kouloglou, sofia sakorafa, paloma lópez bermejo, lola sánchez caldentey, miguel urbán crespo, tania gonzález peñas, xabier benito ziluaga, eleonora forenza, miguel viegas, joão pimenta lopes, joão ferreira, curzio maltese, estefanía torres martínez, kostadinka kuneva, on behalf of the gue/ngl group; judith sargentini, jean lambert, on behalf of the verts/ale group(o-000031/2018 – b8-0016/2018) (2018/2666(rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, although things are progressing very slowly, we must really say that children are the most vulnerable group among refugees and we must give them maximum attention. last week i was on a mission in greece, specifically on the island of lesbos, where i saw the situation of unaccompanied children in particular. while the greek government is indeed moving very slowly, i have to commend the work of the people on the ground who are working with great dedication, whether they are domestic greeks or employees of international organizations. i appreciate the work they're doing these days, whether it's in the hot spot of moria, the center of karatepe. i want to personally thank the mayor of lesbos for his extraordinary work. in difficult conditions, they strive to make life in the camps dignified and safe for all, especially women and children. these children, 3,000 of them in greece, are at risk of abuse, trafficking, they have no prospects for life. i therefore wholeheartedly support the maximum age limit for fingerprinting to be lowered so that it can be recorded and protected.
ms morvai, i shall make just one comment, and that is that i do have some experience of the european school and i must say that the pupils studying there are different in nature, of different origins and – you would be surprised – of different skin colour and also refugees. i myself came across that many years ago, and i do not think it has changed.
mr. chairman, i would like to follow up on my opening statement. i am for the protection of life in all its forms. an animal is a living creature and should not be mistreated. that is why i appreciate the fact that the european union has banned animal testing and i am proud that we, as the european union, are in a position to be a world leader in this matter. the opposite is true in china, where the government even requires testing on foreign products that have passed reliable alternative testing. since 2014, we've seen some improvements and limitations in testing, and non-profit organizations and cosmetic companies in the european union have played a significant role in this. they're trying to change china's approach, for example, by supporting chinese labs with training. it is indeed gratifying to see that european companies, conscious of their social responsibility, are helping where eu rules do not reach.
mr president, i would like to support my colleague and indeed all my speakers on this matter, because this is a very serious matter in my view. it's about safety on farms and businesses in general. the accidents that weigh down these operations are extremely dangerous and the operation is really stressful. i once talked to a farmer who told me that he was stressed about his work and the weather, whether it was raining or not raining at all, because there was a threat of drought and a threat of rain. these people are really at the edge of their mental faculties, and i don't even consider the health risks that come with these dangerous operations. i think we can help them. it is not just a question of the european budget, when they did not get very good news today. i think it's about organizing prevention programs first and then using pressure on insurance companies to negotiate fair insurance terms, because often these farmers are the ones who face unfair treatment from insurance companies.
mr president, commissioner, i think that the issue of independent media is indeed crucial to our democracy and the role of independent and impartial media is irreplaceable in a democracy. it's the role of the circulatory system in a healthy functioning body. i would therefore like to support the rapporteur's report. i think it is very good and i would like to add one issue that it does not mention much, and that is the issue of the risk of concentration of power, which is manifested in the aspect of economic power, money power, political power, that is, actually in that power to exercise one's will, and precisely the risk of parallel ownership of the media. unfortunately, in the czech republic and not only in the czech republic, this is a highly topical problem and it seems to me that without a relevant european initiative we will not be able to solve this issue. i do not often call for new european rules, but it is precisely on the issue of media pluralism and freedom that i think a european initiative would be most appropriate.
mr president, dear mrs spinelli, i have read your report carefully and i think it is a good basis for discussion. not to order anything and to open up the issues that need to be opened up today, such as fake news, such as the influence of some foreign powers on democracy and on events in the member states of the european union. but there's one thing that i'm interested in, because i miss it quite a bit. and that's the question of the responsibility of journalists. journalists are responsible for what they write. and i think it's only right that if they ever make a mistake, they should actually try to correct that mistake. and i think that's not emphasized enough in the report. i understand all these cases that are connected and that are directed against journalists. i understand the political pressure on journalists. i think that's very well reflected in the report. but on the other hand, we can also reflect on the experiences of some politicians who have been falsely accused of something, and the journalist has not said it properly.
mr president, in mid-april the united nations general assembly met in new york and the subject of road safety was also discussed. the statistics of the world health organization prove that this is a serious global problem. every year, i stress every year, 1.25 million people die on the world's roads as a result of traffic accidents, and it's estimated that up to 50 million more people are injured, many of them suffering lifelong consequences. the european union is the world leader in road safety, even though our target of a 50% reduction in road deaths by 2020 compared to 2010 is unlikely to be achieved and we are still far from the zero vision. that is why we cannot afford to let up in our efforts to make roads safer, not just in the european union. the european commission will present in a few days' time a new road safety framework for the next decade. we as members of the european parliament will also be making a significant contribution to its fulfilment, and it is therefore necessary to promote cooperation between members not only in the european union but also worldwide.
mr president, i have developed an initiative here, under the co-presidency of the youth group, of young meps, on the issue of paid traineeships, and i think that this is a question that has not been answered for a long time by the leadership of the european parliament or the european institutions. in the european institutions, many trainees are still working for free, doing menial jobs, often making purchases for various officials or meps, and i want to draw attention to this situation. i think a lot of colleagues who laugh, in their offices, maybe it doesn't always work that way, and i think the complaints that come from interns who then describe their internships as being able to learn how to make good coffee or bring the mps lunch during the internship, i think that says it all.
mr president, first of all i would like to express my great pleasure at having had the opportunity to speak in this debate, but for the third time at the end of the whole series, and i would therefore like to ask for some fairness in the distribution of the positions during the 30 minutes. i wanted to talk today about cohesion policy. the draft multiannual financial framework was published today and cohesion policy is not doing very well. that's a statement of fact. but this policy should be the very heart of the european union, because it removes disadvantages, it reduces disparities between regions, and i would like to work for its strengthening, and i would like to work for its strengthening, especially because we are seeing a very dramatic depopulation of rural areas and the inner peripheries within the european union. europe acts like a funnel, sucking people, potential into its center and leaving empty spaces behind. therefore, rural areas should be given priority support under the agricultural and cohesion policies. this is a significant problem, 80% of the european population will be living in the largest european cities within ten years. that's a real risk for our future.
mr president, mr prime minister, article 17 of the lisbon treaty states that the member of the commission must be chosen on the basis of the criterion of europeanism. this means that in the czech republic, for example, 68% of citizens can never have their interests represented in the commission. and they're discriminated against because of their political beliefs. article 22 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states that any discrimination on grounds of political opinion is prohibited. you said yourself, prime minister, that you don't want to change the treaties. but i believe that the lisbon treaty, which organises discrimination, must be abolished and we must offer citizens a better alternative to cooperation in europe.
mr. prime minister, i listened to you very carefully. i appreciate your commitment, your enthusiasm and i share your ideas for prosperity, security and values. but let me ask you a few questions. why do you want to open legal routes for migrants? do you think that we can transfer millions of people who live in very difficult conditions instead of bringing peace and prosperity to their home countries? how can you strengthen the competitiveness of european companies if we are making the free market more difficult with the new directive on the posting of workers? in any case, we are following the same line, as you are, and i hope for a secure and prosperous future for our children.
i consider the issue of sustainable transport to be extremely important, indeed important for the development of our towns and cities, and it is a key issue for cohesion policy. yes, there are examples, as my speaker said, where these individual projects have failed, but we have hundreds, thousands of examples where european money has helped european mobility and connected cities and towns. we are talking about the preference of public transport here, and i join those who supported this report for that very reason. it is not just about reducing exhaust emissions and emissions from public transport, but also about meeting the real preferences of public transport, including, for example, the reduction of travel distances, the so-called modal hubs, telematics. and in the czech republic, but also in other states, this is also joined by the problem of suburbanised areas, that is to say those that are in agglomeration rings, and where transport is really very crucial for the local population and for its impact on a healthy lifestyle.
madam president, i would like to explain why i finally abstained in the final vote on this report, which deals with children in the migrant crisis. children are the most vulnerable group and we must give them attention and protection. so in order to protect them, they need to be recorded, registered, and we need their biometrics. unfortunately, the amendments that were adopted during the vote relativize the entire resolution, and i think that's a mistake. it's in the best interest of the children to have their papers, to be protected, to be registered, to know where they are. it's for their benefit. i also have great respect for lord dubs' initiative in the uk to take in 380 refugee children. i think it's a good model for other countries.
madam president, i voted in favour of a resolution proposing a global ban on animal testing of cosmetic products and their ingredients. the european union has been prohibited from doing so for five years. but animal cruelty should not be tolerated anywhere in the world in the 21st century, not just in the european union. and research shows that alternative methods are also more effective. i agree that the european union should use its influence and actively engage in efforts to negotiate an international agreement that would lead to a ban outside the european union. i appreciate the active role of the european union in developing alternative methods and welcome the commission's pledge to enforce the animal testing clauses in trade agreements. i hope that one day he will be remembered in the eu as not only the pioneer of the test ban, but also the driving force behind the global ban.
i am convinced, madam president, that the use of animals for beauty purposes is not in keeping with my convictions, nor with those of many europeans, or, i hope, with those of all europeans in our european area. i am very pleased that the european union is leading the way in this area and is really setting the direction, but on the other hand, the entry of these products, which do not currently comply with our rules, into our european market, i think can be very problematic, to some extent even hypocritical. if we prohibit the use of animals in the european area for cosmetic purposes and then we consume these products produced in neighbouring countries, i think we are hypocritical to some extent. i therefore also call for the removal of these products from our markets and for research into alternative uses for cosmetic purposes without the use of animals.
madam president, world press freedom day is a good opportunity to recall the importance of free media, its role and also to call for support for public media which play a vital role in providing our citizens with objective information. we must fight fake news and the spreading disinformation campaigns. i am therefore pleased that it is also possible to use european funds to support public media and media literacy of citizens of all ages. the document also calls on member states to increase the participation of women in the media in order to increase their participation as experts and in leadership positions. the commission should work with the member states to combat disinformation campaigns and to fight for the independence of the media. daphne galizia, ján kuciak these are the victims that they made in order for the media to play their role and we should remember their names.
madam president, i truly believe that the media's role in democracy is irreplaceable. there are key independent media outlets, and they're facing a whole series of attacks today, and it's fake news that's talked about here all the time. the media becomes part of a hybrid war, an information war. then there's the problem of self-censorship and even that totally unacceptable censorship. the media is under attack, in our immediate vicinity there are dozens, hundreds of journalists in prison, and even in the european area journalists are being murdered. this is truly unacceptable. i'm convinced that the report could have been better, and i endorsed it. on the other hand, it contains some provisions, such as the problematic whistleblower protection in paragraphs 37 and 38. even though today is the day of the press, i end up supporting this report, but i think that the political motives in such a report are not entirely happy.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, pursuant to rule 149a of the rules of procedure, i would like to propose, on behalf of the european people’s party (epp) group that the vote on the report on the interpretation and implementation of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making takes place on wednesday instead of tuesday. ms hübner, chair of the committee on constitutional affairs (afco), as well as richard corbett, my co-rapporteur for this report, have indicated that they agree with this request. the report contains some paragraphs on the ongoing interinstitutional negotiations on improved practical arrangements for cooperation and information-sharing regarding the negotiation and conclusion of international agreements. on wednesday morning a new round of negotiations will take place and the paragraphs in the report may need to be updated by means of oral amendments to take account of the outcome of this meeting. elmar brok and bernd lange, who were nominated by the conference of presidents as parliament negotiators, therefore made this request for a postponement, and i hope that our colleagues will agree to this request.
mr. chairman, this is certainly a very regrettable case, and i think anyone who has ever spent any time working as a police officer will tell you that every police officer always considers very carefully whether to use a weapon against a fleeing vehicle. i think most cops who ever use a gun will regret it for the rest of their lives. however, you yourself, colleague, said: "the case is not being investigated". we politicians shouldn't use cases to interfere with them. therefore, please let this case be investigated by the appropriate authorities and let us not interfere with this case for the time being.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would also like to express my appreciation for the efforts made by the commission because the mobility package is – even with some difficulties, maybe some disagreements – quite impressive, and this is something that businesses will feel, industries will feel, our citizens will feel and consumers will feel. i think that this needs to be said. i especially appreciate that on the third mobility package, we might be short on time, but still the emphasis is on safety. this is an element which is clearly new, an element where the commission has made a real effort and which i think, in the past, has been left aside. on emissions, i will leave the figures aside, but i do appreciate what commissioner cañete has said on the question of incentives. i think that without incentives, we will not manage. another issue in this respect is that we could overemphasise just one source of energy, and that is electricity – not in the proposal, but in general. we know that we’ve got hydrogen, we’ve got a synthetic, and if we want to make a real change then we need to manage with those vehicles which are on the market, and this is not primarily about electricity. it is complex. let’s treat it that way. good luck, we will work with you on that.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, we are looking forward to the debate on the third and final package of mobility measures. i am pleased that the commission is responding to the european parliament's call and is taking care of the safety of our citizens. in 2017 alone, more than 25 000 people died on european roads and 135 000 were seriously injured. the new era offers the possibility of new safety features that should be affordable and save the lives of all europeans. and in that sense, i hope that the commission has prepared its proposals. the commission will also continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and to monitor the implementation of the new rules. however, from the czech republic's point of view, i very much appreciate the initiative to simplify the permitting procedure for trans-european transport network projects. but where the commission tragically fell asleep was in the co2 standards for trucks. the fact that the commission is only now presenting them to us is reprehensible and completely incomprehensible.
mr president, i have only three specific comments to make on this third part of the mobility package. first, meaningful electromobility is conditional on the use of electricity from renewable sources. electric mobility using electricity produced from fossil fuels only solves a local problem, at the cost of large efficiency losses caused by energy conversion and transmission. secondly, if we want to talk about zero emissions, we need to consider the entire production chain, the entire carbon footprint, including manufacturing, not just the operation of the vehicle itself. third, the widespread use of renewable energy is not possible without efficient, technically advanced storage. we need to support european innovators, limit the outflow of new technologies to third countries and develop the entire battery production chain. in this context, i thank vice-president šefčovič for his active approach to this issue and welcome the european commission's initiative, the eu battery alliance. in the european parliament, this is the specific area that the friends of batteries working group that i initiated will be working on, and i very much look forward to working with them.
in writing. i welcome the proposals put forward by the european commission, which is also focusing its initiative on improving road safety in the third part of the mobility package. the proposed measures are important in my view to move us one step closer to the long-term objectives of reducing the number of fatalities and serious injuries in road traffic accidents. the presentation of the strategic road safety action plan, which contains further proposals for action and sets targets for the next decade, will also contribute to this. almost half of the victims are the most vulnerable road users, such as motorcyclists, cyclists or pedestrians. therefore, new legislative measures are needed to improve their protection and to increase the safety of vehicles. this can help to reduce the consequences of road accidents that result in fatalities or serious injuries.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am looking forward to negotiating the joint motion for a resolution with my colleagues tomorrow. i am sure that we are going to have a good paper and i hope that the commission will take it seriously. you personally should take it as support for your efforts. there will be a number of invitations, challenges and also negative signals. one has already been mentioned. cef is a success story. we are doing very well and are oversubscribed, but if we look at the allocation of financial means, in constant prices we have 12 to 13, respectively, percent cuts. this is something that this house and the majorities in this house will not understand. taking into account the question of assessment, where we could also do better from the side of the european coordinators is in really assessing the actual progress that is being made so that we can show it to our citizens. it is not a question of how much money has been allocated, but what the real result is. i will make three brief remarks. firstly, regarding the complex relationship with horizon 2020 or efsi, this has to be our focus. secondly, yes to blending. i think we have got some positive results. let’s work on it with public money. thirdly, i think that we need to understand that there is basically an excess of everything, that is: use it or lose it. that is the reason why this programme has been successful. my apologies for going over my allocated time.
rapporteur: mr president, the report on the interpretation and implementation of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making follows on from the work of the working group composed of members of the committee on legal affairs and the committee on constitutional affairs, and therefore allow me to begin by thanking all the colleagues who have contributed to the work of this working group. i would also like to thank my co-rapporteur, richard corbett, for his excellent cooperation. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the agreement on the european economic area (eea) between the european union and the republic of moldova on the participation of the republic of moldova in the union programme 'horizon 2020 - the framework programme for research and innovation (2014-2020) '. in general, the application of the agreement to date is satisfactory and the agreement is, in principle, fulfilling its purpose. i believe that there has been goodwill from all institutions to fulfil the purpose of the agreement from the beginning and i believe that this will continue to be the case. this is an interinstitutional agreement and our evaluation therefore included an effort to preserve and strengthen those elements of cooperation in which the european parliament can contribute its expertise. one such issue is the respect of the correct legal basis. unjustified changes to the legal basis are of course unacceptable to the european parliament. at this interinstitutional level, i would also like to mention the question of the participation of representatives of the european parliament in the meetings of the council's working groups, also as an example of the certain disproportion that still exists in the area of information on the council's proceedings compared with that on the european parliament and its institutions. i believe that in the long run it would be beneficial to eliminate such a disproportion. however, it should be stressed that the report does not deal only with institutional matters. in particular, it assesses how well we have achieved the fundamental purpose of the agreement, which is to improve the adoption of legislation. i would like to mention here a few elements of the legislative process that are mentioned in the report and can illustrate how those principles of better law making can be implemented in practice. we think, for example, that the european commission should clearly state the legal nature of each of its proposals in its work programme and should provide a clear and realistic timetable. this would also help to make the european union more understandable to its citizens. one of the key things is a good impact assessment of the proposed legislation. personally, i have always supported taking the maximum possible account of the impact on smes, which i do not see as an advantage for them over other entities or employees, but as a reality. and the reality is that smes are absolutely vital to the european economy. the big issue is gold plating. i think it is obvious that we must continue to require that, in implementing eu rules, it is possible to distinguish between what is still an eu rule and what is already a national initiative which imposes obligations beyond the standards adopted at eu level. the average citizen has virtually no chance of finding out these days. the european union is a community of law and must therefore ensure that its law is truly modern, effective, clear and understandable.
in writing. i welcome the visible progress we have made in the drafting of eu legislation thanks to this interinstitutional agreement. i particularly welcome provisions that help to increase transparency, such as the establishment of a database for delegated acts. i also welcome the fact that the report draws attention to the so-called gold plating. the fact that a member state transposes eu legislation more widely than necessary into its legal order is not in itself negative. this allows member states, for example, to ensure an even higher standard of protection for citizens. but wider national regulation is not always welcomed by citizens, and the problem is that citizens cannot distinguish between which changes in the new law are brought about by the eu and which by the state. gold plating in such situations fuels euroscepticism and is partly responsible for the rise of populist sentiment in the eu. i therefore consider it extremely important that the commission monitors that member states, when transposing directives or adopting adaptation legislation, do indeed clearly distinguish between provisions which derive from and go beyond union legislation. we must put in place a practice that will enable us to take citizens out of the idea that the eu can do everything.
mr president, i want to draw attention to the situation in syria in my speech. this war is having a significant impact on the political situation in the countries of the european union and citizens should know the truth about this war. bashar assad started the war to suppress the democratic opposition. the assad family and the baath party have ruled syria since 1963, fifty-five years. it was president assad who released the sunni radicals who were imprisoned in 2011, and that allowed the islamic state to emerge. assad is portrayed as a fighter against the islamic state, but in fact he has used the situation to eliminate those who demanded freedom and respect for human rights in syria. seven years after the protests began, the situation is alarming. of the original population of 22 million, six and a half million are refugees abroad and seven million are internally displaced. ladies and gentlemen, bashar assad and putin are the ones responsible for 500,000 dead and millions more injured, and they should be brought to justice.
madam chairman, since i'm the last speaker, i'll allow myself to make a sweet spot after these performances. i would like to start by highlighting your speech and the proposal for a multiannual financial framework, which i think is fairly balanced. there's also a fairly large degree of flexibility, although i personally would imagine a much larger one, to be able to respond flexibly to any problems that might occur during those seven years. the multiannual framework is also quite close to reality, and i think that is also important. the european union should play a greater role in the areas of security, stability, external border protection, digitalisation, but it should also not forget about traditional policies. the last thing i want to say is about control. commissioner, there is a real need to emphasise greater control and greater emphasis from the start of the financial framework on the efficient use of european taxpayers' money.
in writing. i am very concerned about the way the european commission has approached the draft multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 and its communication. i am convinced that the european union, even with its new objectives and priorities, should not abandon the principle of solidarity, which is also enshrined in the founding treaties. i consider it unfortunate that a body which has the welfare of all europeans at heart should propose a plan which turns out to be anything but as positive as it was originally presented. the analysis by the european parliament's research service shows that the reported increases in key programmes are actually lower and the cuts higher. i am disappointed that the european commission has not tried to follow the guidelines adopted by parliament a few months ago, which were not one, but several steps ahead in ambition. as regards the expenditure side, the commission has not been able to present a sufficiently good document. we all know the direction in which the member states will push the amounts when they come to negotiate them. it will certainly not be upwards, and it will be to the detriment of all the students who would like to study abroad, all the mothers who would like to reintegrate into the labour market, all the scientists who are trying in vain to obtain funding for their research, and many others. i welcome the abolition of rebates and the proposal for new budgetary resources.
for the alde group. the revision of the posting of workers directive has opened up a subject that has long been hidden in europe, namely the sensitive issue of wage differentials between member states. the popular slogan 'equal pay for equal work in the same place' that made the directive visible across the states was supposed to bring everything back to normal overnight. does anyone really think that this will magically solve all the problems in the job market? i don't think it was. for over two years, we've been debating whether a truck driver or a construction worker sent abroad will have a salary of this or that. but the problem is not wages. it is about the future of europe and its values. it's a debate about what kind of europe we really want. i ask you now: do we want to preserve the free movement of people, goods and services in europe? or do we want to let europe become a protectionist market where it is no longer possible to move in a 'one-way' direction? the new rules will severely restrict the cross-border provision of services and undermine one of the european union's fundamental values. my position is not that i don't want to give our workers better pay and that i don't support unfair corporate practices. quite the opposite. but try to look at the real situation in the labour market through the eyes of those who are the real job creators. what do they really need? are these other orders that will tie their hands even more? or a simple and effective solution that can be easily applied in practice? we must take account of economic possibilities and consider the impact of our decisions on everyone, including businesses and employers, who are the backbone of the european labour market. the situation in the transport sector in particular is very critical and i am sincerely sorry that some colleagues have very quickly forgotten the promise to set up specific transport rules, which we clearly agreed on in the trilogue. as shadow rapporteur of this report, my aim from the outset has been to strike the necessary balance between preserving the free movement of services and protecting workers' rights. unfortunately, that did not happen. for these reasons, i cannot personally support the directive. voting for the directive, for me, is voting against one of the fundamental values on which the european union is built.
president of the republic of guinea. your excellency, mr president of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great pleasure for me to speak to you today. i would like to express my sincere gratitude for the honour you have bestowed on me by receiving me on an official visit to your prestigious institution, where i first came to receive the freedom passport. over the years and with the european union's investments, your assembly has established itself as a legislative body capable of responding effectively to the legitimate concerns of european citizens and of contributing to the search for solutions to the challenges facing the world. in this context, i would like to express our gratitude for your continued support for the efforts of developing countries, in particular in strengthening the rule of law, good governance, and in the fight against irregular migration and climate change. your excellency, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, since i became the supreme judge of my country in december 2010, guinea has strengthened its democratic process, in particular through the establishment of the royal institutions of the national assembly, the constitutional court, the court of auditors, the high council of the judiciary, the economic and social council and the high authority of communication. these institutions, now fully operational, operate independently and in strict compliance with democratic principles and values. we have also established a constant political dialogue, involving all political parties, civil society, the administration and development partners. this climate of dialogue has contributed greatly to the calming of the socio-political environment and to the building of peace and stability. all this contributes to the preservation of the many democratic gains made by guinea in recent years. we also have a permanent relationship with the european union, in accordance with article 8 of the cotonou agreement, to which my country is a party. the second session of the consultation framework held in conakry in march 2017 addressed issues related to the preservation of democracy, the fight against corruption and impunity, migration and the official development assistance that the european union provides to our country. we welcome this framework for exchanges between our country and the european union, which promotes mutual understanding in our political, economic and social cooperation. it facilitates the definition of common priorities and principles and strengthens the links between the different areas of cooperation enshrined in the cotonou agreement. excellencies, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, during my term as head of the african union in 2017, our continental organisation has been working on addressing challenges ranging from issues of peace and security on the continent, to institutional reform and funding of the organisation, with a view to strengthening our credibility and dignity in dealing with international problems. the reform underway should ultimately enable us to make our organisation more efficient and to promote and consolidate our financial autonomy, whether for the functioning of the institution or for the financing of projects and programmes included in the ten-year plan for the implementation of agenda 2063. i remain convinced that africa is stronger when it speaks with one voice. i have therefore appointed champion heads of state to be the spokesmen of our union on all specific issues of continental concern. in addition, african integration, which is at the heart of our union's agenda 2063, has gained irreversible momentum with the launch of the single air transport market in africa and, more recently, the launch of the agreement creating the african continental free trade area. in the long term, we want to build a stable, peaceful and secure africa, made up of states with inclusive, efficient and competitive economies in the global market and whose growth benefits all citizens. we want to make africa an emerging continent, with a single market with efficient structures while avoiding competition between its states. to do this, we need to invest substantially in infrastructure, particularly in the transport, telecommunications and energy sectors, in order to accelerate the transformation of our economies. that is why we launched the african renewable energy initiative at cop21 in 2015, with the aim of providing our continent with 300 gigawatts of energy generation capacity by 2030 and significantly increasing the use of renewable energy. i would like to thank the european union for its continued valuable support in making this initiative a reality, which i have the honour of coordinating on behalf of africa and of chairing the board of directors. the european union is a strategic partner for africa, not only because of its geographical proximity to our continent but also because of the quality of its relations of cooperation with africa in the security, economic and humanitarian fields. the close cooperation relations between the african union and the european union deserve to be highlighted. the third african union-european union summit, held in abidjan in november 2017, under my co-chairmanship, on the theme 'investing in youth for accelerated inclusive growth and sustainable development', reflected the willingness of the leaders of our continents to move further towards harmonising relations in favour of youth. the summit not only provided an opportunity to review our partnership in depth, but also to set out our common priorities in the four strategic areas of peace and security, cooperation in the field of governance, mobility and migration, and economic prospects for african and european youth. our cooperation with europe on migration and mobility will be strengthened with a focus on tackling the root causes of irregular migration, namely development issues and human trafficking. we welcome the adoption at the valletta summit in november 2015 of the emergency trust fund of an initial us$1.8 trillion to support the efforts of our states to stabilise our youth on the african continent. we particularly welcome the launch of the marshall plan by mrs merkel at our last meeting in berlin and are confident that this marshall plan will promote win-win cooperation. of course, we have said that for there to be a true marshall plan, the european union must devote a share of its gdp comparable to that which the united states once devoted to europe. the new eu external investment plan, set up and adopted by the european parliament in 2017 and with €44 billion of available resources by 2020, will therefore support our efforts to achieve sustainable development and create new opportunities for young people. in the same spirit, i welcome the contribution of the european union to the financing of the integra programme in guinea, amounting to eur 65 million, through the resources of the trust fund for the fight against the root causes of irregular migration. this programme will support the efforts of the guinean government to promote the socio-economic integration of young people in the various economic sectors of guinea through the creation of new job opportunities. your excellency, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, cooperation between the european union and the republic of guinea has been accelerated and diversified in recent years in various fields, which has contributed to improving governance, developing infrastructure and human capital, preserving the environment and improving the management of the fisheries sector. this assistance has already enabled us to address the major challenges of economic and social development and strengthening the rule of law, including the reform of the justice sector and defence and security efforts, as well as the transformation of our administration to make it more efficient, modern and effective. i cannot ignore the valuable help that the various member states of the european union have given us during the terrible ordeal we have had to endure with the ebola epidemic. i thank the european parliament and all the member states for their help. i would like to express, through you, our deep gratitude to the european union and its institutions for the valuable and constant support they have given to our country. i remain convinced that the partnership between the european union and guinea will be strengthened and diversified, in particular to the benefit of the implementation of the national economic and social development plan (nedp) 2007-2020, which was presented to all our development partners last november in paris at the consultative group meeting. this programme, which is the single framework for action by our partners, is based on four pillars: the promotion of good governance for sustainable development, sustainable and inclusive economic transformation, inclusive development of human capital, and sustainable management of natural capital. despite the undeniable progress in the field of democracy, my country is still a victim of the image of its past. we are once again counting on the support of the european union to enable us to achieve the objectives contained in our sdsp, which aims to put guinea definitively on the path of sustainable development. long live the cooperation between guinea and the european union, long live the cooperation between the african union and the european union, long live international cooperation! (applause) i would like to thank
mr gollnisch, your point is taken and we will look into it.
colleague, no, i will not accept that, it is not a point of order. under article 184, if i am not mistaken, part a, on points of order this does not comply with our own rules of procedure. so i have to take the floor away from you. unless there are other requests, we will now proceed with the votes.
mr corrao, please take your seat. this is a final request, take your seat, your micro is off ... (uproar in the chamber)we will now proceed with the extension of the term of office of the special committee on terrorism. it’s a decision of the conference of presidents… (disturbance continues)
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
ms jazłowiecka, that is not correct. when i put it to the vote, i did say whose report it was. i think it was clear, we took a vote, and there was a vast majority.
that concludes the vote.
ms toia, your point is taken. may i just remind you that i have taken the floor away. that was not a point of order so i have cut the microphone and whatever was on the microphone we might look into, but the microphone was cut off and unfortunately, with no interpretation, i could not get the meaning in italian. but your point is taken, and that was considered to be a remark that was inadmissible, and that is why i have taken the floor away.
mr president, i voted against this trialogue agreement and i think it is not a good agreement because instead of improving the movement of services in the internal market we are building new barriers, new administration and more bureaucracy. this is not good news for employers, who find it difficult to provide services in the internal market, but i am convinced that it is not good news for employees either. we want, of course, to increase the convergence of wages, salaries between east and west, to reduce the differences in social standards between east and west. but i think that this should be done without resorting to protectionism and bureaucracy, that is, we should have improved the enforceability of existing rules and helped businesses to be able to compete and increase their competitiveness, instead of administrative barriers and bureaucracy.
mr president, here in this chamber and especially in this parliament we hear a lot about how we should integrate more, that we need more europe, that we need more of the single market, that we need more cooperation, and yet this proposal, this interim agreement, is contrary to those very principles. because it is destroying the single market and its principles, creating protectionist barriers and being the product of the lobbying of certain states which have simply not been used to the fact that there has been an enlargement to central and eastern europe for 15 years. as you can see, it is the meps from central and eastern europe who are opposing this interim agreement, because they feel that it threatens the free movement of labour from their countries. if the old member states take these measures against us, then please, but then let them get used to the fact that we too will defend our national interests in an adequate way, for example in the case of quotas for the redistribution of migrants. thank you, and of course i couldn't vote for it.
mr president, at the last plenary session we adopted a resolution on the situation in gaza, and although this was before the recent unrest, i believe that we can rely on this resolution. the european parliament stresses israel's right to defend itself against attacks and calls on it not to use disproportionate means to this end. unfortunately, we consider the recent incident and the recent israeli response to be inadequate. of course, we feel sorry for the 60 gazans who died. we feel sorry for these victims, but we also see this as a consequence of hamas' provocation. so whoever provoked it is responsible. and it should be said that hamas is a terrorist organization. we can't blame israel for whoever provoked this attack. the 1947 resolution provides for a certain status for jerusalem. we, of course, recognize the right of every country to determine which city will be its capital. for us christians, jerusalem is a holy city, and we know it's equally important to judaism and islam. we would like this city to be a city of peace and spiritual contemplation, not conflict and war.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, a country which silences freedom of expression is not a democracy. security forces that hurt their citizens are not the legitimate protectors of a nation. a president who violates the human rights of his people is not their representative. any country that murders unarmed protesters is a dictatorship. while many outside are surprised by the sudden turn of events in the brutal repression seen in the news, let's be clear: nicaragua has not been a democracy for a long time. the crackdown in the last month is the culmination of years of authoritarianism, repression and fragmentation of democratic processes and institutions. the authorities must immediately cease any violence against protesters and release all arbitrarily detained prisoners. negotiations must produce real change; a change that all nicaraguans yearn for; a change that will only be achieved through free and fair elections. what nicaragua needs is an end to the current authoritarian regime and national reconciliation. the first step is to call for new free elections and establish a balanced truth commission with independent members. the european union must be prepared to help in any way possible.
mr president, we should hear from the president of the united states of america at the beginning of june whether we can expect an unconditional exemption from the steel and aluminium tariffs or not. the introduction of duties alone should not have a significant impact on the european economy when compared to imports of these commodities from other parts of the world the surplus is huge. a much bigger problem could be the retaliation of the european union against the united states. the eu's top officials should therefore try to calm the situation and not take immediate dramatic measures. the aim should be to reach a friendly, mutually reasonable solution promoting transatlantic cooperation and setting new trade parameters. rather than retaliating, europe should focus on securing the european market in case of a diversion of steel from third countries originally destined for the us market, i.e. those states that did not eventually reach an agreement with the us. the excess steel production in china alone is more than twice the total annual production of the european union.
mr president, this is of course a very unpleasant situation, which we have not caused, but we have now the opportunity as the european union to show that we are indeed a positive global force and that protectionism must not and will not be our tool. we will have to respond to the us measures if there is no agreement, but i would strongly urge that these measures be moderate, that they be proportionate, that they be limited in time and, of course, that they be in line with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto). we must work with other partners, such as japan, which has already shown its willingness to oppose the justifications used by the us administration, particularly in the area of national security. but if we do go to arbitration or appeal to the world trade organization, we have to be prepared for a very long process. but we have the opportunity to take a positive view of this.
for the ppe group. madam president, libya is a challenge. it is a test for maximum coordination of the various instruments of european policy. this includes development, security, migration policy, humanitarian aid and the fight against terrorism. the european union is the largest donor in the region. for example, it contributes financially to all projects carried out by unhcr in the territory. but the real impact and awareness of our efforts is small, both among ordinary libyans and our citizens. this situation needs to change. one step that would help this is the report's recommendation of moving the european union delegation towards libya itself. the european union should continue to support the efforts of un special representative ghassan salamé in his efforts to stabilise the country and the process of national reconciliation. however, much more needs to be done to take account of the real dynamics in the country. continued support for common foreign and security policy missions and operations is essential for the stability of libya. they're not just helping to fight smuggling, human trafficking, monitoring the un arms embargo. the missions shall cooperate with the libyan side in developing a comprehensive strategy for the management of the maritime and southern borders. the european union must allocate sufficient resources, including the next multiannual financial framework, to implement the policies listed.
madam president, i would first of all like to thank mr panzer, our colleague, for his report, which is really comprehensive and very well describes the current situation and developments in libya. madam high representative, i also want to thank you for the update on the paris talks. of course, we need libya to be a stable partner and have a democratic government. libya is key to the detention of migrants. it is important that refugees in this country are treated humanely and that new refugees do not disappear, that human traffickers are fought here. in the context of the uncertain situation, it is therefore important to support the 2017 united nations plan of action for libya. as you yourself said, libya is a rich country, and that's why we need to engage young people in the reconstruction of this society, to prevent them from being manipulated into being involved in crime and terrorism. it is in everyone's interest to support the rebuilding of this country and democratic elections.
the question posed by the blue card. mr president, you mentioned here that the member states wanted to take responsibility for border control, you mentioned hungary, you mentioned italy. so i'd like to ask you why italy has not taken on this responsibility?
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for this report. i think the document is built on a very good foundation. i think that in addition to describing the reality of the situation, he's also suggesting some ideas for improving the system. it's been said many times here, we're not happy with the way it works. every time we go to france, there's a rather embarrassing passport control here in strasbourg. i think anyone who walks through it has to tap their head, because that's not the way to prevent an attack or increase the safety of citizens. i think that no one thinks that this check will prevent any terrorist from getting into strasbourg. i think that within the schengen area we lack the enforcement of the law, and that is what is described in the report. it is a matter of all the member states really respecting what they have and not really circumventing it, whether in the form of the golden visas mentioned or the various passports they give to third country nationals. this is what leads to scepticism about the functioning of the schengen area. the schengen area itself is a great idea, and believe me, as a student at the pontifical university, i've experienced what it means to be out of schengen, and i've experienced those border controls, and i would never want those controls to come back to europe.
mr president, the schengen area is one of the european union's greatest achievements. it is an essential part of the european integration project. the schengen area has come under pressure in recent years and its basic rules and conventions are no longer functioning. i am referring to the reintroduction of internal border controls within the european union or the construction of border fences within the european union. for the first time, article 29 of the schengen code has been activated, new border controls are emerging. it's very dangerous. if the schengen area disappears, the european union as we know it will disappear. the preservation of the schengen area remains a key instrument for the expansion of economic and social benefits, the free movement of persons, goods and capital. and not just conservation. let us work, ladies and gentlemen, to extend the schengen area. romania and bulgaria, for example, are professionally seeking to join the schengen area. they're trying to protect their borders to justify their entry into space. i recently visited the bulgarian-turkish land border, where the bulgarians have built a fence about 200 miles long. they have thus demonstrated in practice that they are able to protect the external borders of the european union. they have contributed to the effort to avoid internal borders in the european union. thank you for that, bulgaria!
mr. chairman, thank you for your understanding and for the opportunity to speak. i do not agree with the criticism of the temporary reintroduction of internal border controls by some member states. that criticism comes up pretty often around here. at the time of the refugee crisis, it was clear that the european union was not yet able to secure its external borders, and so such a measure was of course legitimate and, i think, appropriate. conditions have changed and the european union has established a european coast and border guard and taken a number of other measures to secure the external border. it is therefore time to adopt a version of the schengen borders code that sets more objective conditions for the re-establishment of internal borders and prevents the excessive use of this measure. at the same time, we must not slacken our efforts to protect our external borders even more.
mr president, i am convinced that timely and clear information and sensitive treatment are essential to better protect victims. the fact that several member states have still not transposed the directive makes it difficult to evaluate, but the report nevertheless highlights the main obstacles to its implementation. i am pleased to say that the czech republic is now among the countries that have fully transposed the directive, since the adoption of the amendment that entered into force in 2017. but there is still work to be done, of course, and above all to improve the individual approach to victims. i can identify with some of the recommendations in the report. i therefore believe that in order to make the protection of victims as effective as possible and to ensure as much consistency as possible within the european union, member states should coordinate the definition of the concept of 'victim' and other key terms. i support the need for helplines, but i think it's more effective to have one universal helpline where experts can connect. it's better than setting up new specialized lines that will fragment information. so i appreciate some of the new proposals regarding the victims of terrorism, like setting up a special website. but i don't think we need to adopt a new specific directive. this amendment can be ensured by adding provisions to the existing directive.
mr president, i think it is necessary to say at the outset that the european union has also had a role to play in the dramatic change, improvement and strengthening of the rights of victims of crime. the aim of this report is the implementation of secondary legislation and as we know, the state of this legislation in the european union is not ideal. victims are still seen as mere evidence and treated as such. few people take into account that the victim of crime has often been through a very traumatic situation, and our legal systems do not always have a procedure for dealing with such sensitive individuals. ladies and gentlemen, it's very important to know that there are a number of victims of crime who do not have the capacity to be questioned in a normal way. it is therefore necessary that we address these people and improve their access to what my preamble mentioned, so that they have their rights adequately explained and know how to exercise them. the most problematic, in my view, is the very concept of sacrifice. i think we have a lot to catch up on in the european union.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 30 may 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the recommendation for second reading from the committee on international trade on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2016/1036 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union and regulation (eu) 2016/1037 on protection against subsidised imports from countries not members of the european union (05700/1/2018 – c8—0168/2018 – 2013/0103(cod)) (rapporteur: christofer fjellner (a8-0182/2018))
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 30 may 2018.
the next item is the report by tokia saïfi, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the annual report on the implementation of the common commercial policy (2017/2070(ini)) (a8-0166/2018).
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i cannot help but imagine how different this report would have been if we were discussing it three years ago. just think of how much has changed in global trade since the trade for all strategy was published. i am happy that, despite setbacks to global trade today, the eu is moving forward and not letting itself be tempted by protectionist tendencies in the world. but we still need to deliver: we need to speed up the processes of negotiating quality agreements and make sure they work in practice. we need to make sure that european businesses – in particular our smes and consumers – can take full advantage of the benefits from these agreements. we need an eu that takes delight in cementing a free and rules-based system on a global level. effective implementation and monitoring of trade agreements is key to achieving all of this: it is key to making sure that all european actors have the information and assistance they need to thrive via our trade relations, and it is key to identifying areas where we have potential, and we should focus on these areas. as i mentioned at the beginning, a lot has changed in three years. now is the perfect time to reflect on these changes, and not just how we should adapt to them – but how we can lead and drive these changes.
member of the commission. – mr president, the world is changing rapidly and so is our trade policy. we have in recent years focused very much on trying to bring trade policy into line with these changes age by making it much more efficient, making sure that it responds to the demands of our consumers, of our companies, and making sure that it includes digital trade services, that it is efficient and that it is implemented. we have increased transparency considerably; you can now find information on all on—going and concluded trade negotiations and detailed – sometimes regional – examples of how it works in practice. there really is a lot of information on our website. it has become even more value—based, emphasising the values of the european union when it comes to labour rights, the environment and human rights, but also to the value of open rule—based trade. we are doing this through our trade agreements, which are mutually beneficial, sustainable and fully in line with multilateral global rules. it is true that they sometimes take time – and there are some examples that have been absolutely too lengthy – but we are trying to do our best. the mexican agreement was concluded in two years. i think that is quite an achievement. but also, all the time, we have to take substance into account vis—à—vis speed, and you and many other stakeholders are putting increasing demands on what should be in a modern trade agreement and that of course also makes it take a lot of time, as we have listened carefully to these as well. implementation is key. we need to do much more there. we have focused on working with member states, on working with business associations, on working with civil society, on working with chambers of commerce and what have you, and on trying to reach out and to explain the benefits of a trade agreement, but it is simply not good enough yet, and we need to do much more to reach out to smes. lots has been done, but we can do more here as well. the same goes for evaluation and for enforcement, especially on the sustainable development chapters where we have this 15—point action programme where we will focus on much stronger enforcement and cooperation with the different stakeholders. we will be discussing with you this year’s edition of the annual fta implementation report. we will try to cover important developments, both when it comes to hard data and qualitative assessment, and also give analysis of our major ftas, our deep and comprehensive trade agreements and our economic partnership agreements, and take a closer look at some of the areas and sectors you are raising. free trade agreements cannot solve all the problems of the world, that is important to underline, but they are a very important tool, not only to contribute to growth, jobs and investment, but also as a way to promote our values and to connect with our partners – on a personal level as well – building bridges and not walls. thank you very much, mrs saïfi, for your report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 30 may 2018. written statements (rule 162)
mr president, mr prime minister, you have mentioned a number of things which you consider to be central to the european union. i have repeatedly pointed out that for decades - 60 to 70 years - the european union has been facing a democratic deficit. and that is the main problem of the european union. that's why people don't go to the polls, why they can't identify with the european union. it is high time that we start thinking about an alternative, about a different arrangement for the european continent, where there is no democratic deficit, an arrangement that citizens can identify with, and it is another alternative to the five options that the european commission has presented that we could discuss, but that all continue into the future with a democratic deficit. we need to start a debate about a real alternative. i sent out a text a few months ago describing a variant of what europe might look like in an alternative configuration. i wanted to thank you because your foreign ministry responded to my initiative and at least indicated that in fact in luxembourg there is the greatest willingness to discuss an alternative arrangement of the european continent, where there would be no democratic deficit, where democracy, the rights of citizens, their democratic right to vote, would not be threatened by institutions such as the european union, which prevents them from having a democratic influence on what happens in the european union.
mr president, the purpose of the three oral amendments which i am going to present now is to keep the report up to date and to reflect what has been negotiated this morning in the area of cooperation and information sharing as regards the negotiation and conclusion of international agreements. i am doing so on behalf of the two co—rapporteurs, myself and mr corbett. the first concerns paragraph 71, where the word ‘two’ is to be replaced by the word ‘three’. at the end of paragraph 71, once again, the following sentence should be added: ‘notes the progress made so far and strongly insists that these negotiations should be concluded still under the bulgarian presidency’. the third is to delete the whole of paragraph 74.
mr president, i did not vote for this motion and i have two comments on it. one is about the resources. let's not mess with our own resources. the european union is a union of nation states and therefore it should be accompanied by contributions, and its budget should be accompanied by contributions, which come primarily from the nation states. if we create more and more resources of our own, we will cut the european union off from its basic building blocks and build it up somewhere in the air, and most importantly, we will have to invent some new pan-european taxes and fees. i don't see the logic in that. the second point concerns the change in the structure of the budget. i understand that cohesion policy should be limited, that for example the countries of central and eastern europe should receive a little less, while the border countries of the european union should receive a little more to combat illegal migration. okay, but in that case, we in central and eastern europe have to be compensated somehow. so please stop bothering us with refugee quotas and then maybe we'll agree to it.
mr president, let me start by saying that i am a proud czech as well as a proud european. europe for me means history, values and principles. they can help us to build a better future together, so we should not lose them, we should keep them. the selling of passports or residency for thousands of euros is surely not consistent with these values at all. i firmly believe that such a policy undermines the fairness of our society, creates a lot of economic problems, and downgrades, relativises or seriously undermines the achievements of our europe. sometimes it is associated with financial wrongdoings, criminal risk or at least an increase in real estate prices for residents. if you put into your computer search engine a question about the best passports for sale, you can be almost sure that among the top ten countries, you will find two, three or four eu member states, not excluding our presidency. some passports and residencies in the eu are cheap and some of them are expensive but very beneficial. as has been said, this is not a national matter – because whoever gets them has access to the schengen area. there are very strong reasons to reconsider this practice, so i believe that if the council acts in a sincere way, we will move forward and the situation where we are at the top of the list of passport sales will be in the past.
mr president, i am of course personally not opposed to solidarity between european countries when one of them is hit by devastating fires. however, i am afraid that the european commission's proposal has been a very quick one, as it also lacks an impact assessment, which i do not consider to be standard and reasonable. the european commission's proposal also recognises, for example, that it is crucial to focus on disaster prevention. however, only 10% of the total increased amount will be spent on prevention measures between 2018 and 2020, and i simply find that ridiculous. the european commission's proposal is full of unanswered questions. it increases the administrative burden on member states, appears to be costly and puts too much power in the hands of the european commission. the intentions may be good, but significant design flaws can result in loss of life for the experts sent in, and we simply must prevent that.
the question posed by the blue card. madam president, i have a question for you: why do you think the european commission, which is so vehemently opposed to various consumer issues, is so lax in this respect in the case of cars and in the case of the scumbags who turn the speedometer? why do you think the european commission, after four years of or perhaps even longer criticism, is not taking action and doing something about this phenomenon that is destroying the european used car market?
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, it has been a great honour to work on a document entitled 'manipulation of the odometer of motor vehicles: a review of the legal framework of the european union'. i am glad that many of my amendments have been accepted and that a solution has been found. the manipulation of speedometers in motor vehicles simply has to stop, because it is aimed primarily at consumers - that is, at all of us. at this point, up to 50% of cars sold across borders have a revved-up tachometer. this issue will be of increasing concern to the countries of central and eastern europe, as this is where diesel cars from western european countries, which are not supported by governments, will be heading. the manipulation of speedometers will not be reduced, and it is therefore necessary to draw inspiration as soon as possible from systems that have been in operation for a long time, such as the car-pass in belgium or the netherlands, which has been mentioned several times today. it is not to be expected that so many citizens fall victim to fraud that can easily be prevented. we must be able to stand up for them and end this shameful practice.
mr president, i would first like to thank mr ertug for his report, which not only describes the serious problem in the european union's cotton market, but also deals in detail with the solution. i fully support his proposals. the best practices already in place in some member states have been known to the european commission for some time, so i do not understand what is expected. i worked as one of the reporters on the vehicle technical capability package last term. we already called for the mileage to be recorded during technical checks and the european commission explored the possibility of exchanging this data between member states. four more years have passed since then, and the tachometers are happily rolling. it's not just the consumers that are suffering tremendous damage, i don't have to repeat that. this is unacceptable. the european commission must indeed come up with a concrete proposal for a solution as soon as possible. the european parliament has its own vision and i am sure it will support you, commissioner.
in writing. the manipulation of odometer status records is probably as old as the odometers themselves. an uninformed person might think that this is not a major problem. it's the state of the art that counts. as we go through the discussion, we all start to realize that tires, seals, and even plastics, they all age. that's true, but when you look at used car prices, you find that there are two almost equal factors that determine the price of a car, which is its age and its mileage. given current estimates of the number of vehicles traded domestically or across borders, so-called mileage congestion is a major problem. if up to 12% of vehicles on the domestic market and as many as 50% of imported vehicles have been subject to odometer tampering, then this is a major problem that deserves an eu-wide solution. i therefore support the proposals to create a linked database of all vehicles in operation within the eu. and then there is the introduction of an automatic transmission system for their mileage, which i consider impressive at an estimated cost of eur 1 per car. the commission has also launched a new initiative to combat fraud in the european union.
madam president, this debate is being triggered by the case of embraco, a company which manufactures components for appliances, as has already been mentioned, whose management decided to move production gradually to slovakia. production in italy had simply not been profitable for this company for some time, despite, i want to stress, financial support from the regional and national governments. therefore, the company decided to close its factory in italy and move it to slovakia. first of all, we should remember that this is a manifestation of the functioning of the internal market of the european union, that is, the freedom of establishment, which is a fundamental pillar of european integration. it is natural that if a firm decides to operate where it has better conditions and the level of labour costs is one of those legitimate aspects , it will move its production within the internal market of the european union to another country. it's her free choice. the decision to move production to another member state is a strategic and managerial decision of the company concerned, in which the state, and even more so the european institutions, should not intervene in any way. states can certainly offer incentives to companies to discourage their decision, but the final decision must be made by the companies themselves. these incentives must of course be in line with the competition policy of the european union, and i would like to stress this, and the commission has the prerogative to monitor this policy. if the decision of a company to relocate production to another member state of the european union has a negative impact on employment in the region or on the development of the region as such, it is up to the government or, where appropriate, the regional authorities to implement this aid within the framework of employment policy.
madam president, turkey is our strategic partner, and that is why we are concerned about the government's policy and the development of a situation where thousands of people, journalists, academics are still in prison. turkey is the largest recipient of our financial aid. the court's auditors note insufficient progress in areas of support such as the independence of the judiciary, the fight against organised crime or freedom of the press. the main reason is the lack of political will on the part of turkey. the commission must send a clear signal to president erdogan that the european union will not support his dictatorship. we must make our assistance strictly conditional on respect for human rights and the rule of law. we need to channel it into supporting ngos and media freedom. the european union must give turkey clear terms of our partnership. commissioner, you have allies in the european parliament. we have finally resumed negotiations with the turkish parliamentarians after two years and we expect that after the june elections there could be a much more intensive cooperation.
the question posed by the blue card. i would just like to ask: you spoke about the european people's party group not confusing the general political debate, probably in reference to the speech of mrs šojdová. but i think she actually talked about how she definitely doesn't support these activities of turkey, but she also talked about the situation in turkey in general. i would like to ask you if you agree that the situation in turkey is extremely worrying, as mrs sjödröm has just said.
madam president, i want to express my concern for the future of turkey and join my colleagues in this serious suspicion of an unforgivable, illegal use of european funds. i think this matter needs to be thoroughly investigated. of course, every state has the right to protect its borders, but it must do so in a way that is compatible with the protection of human rights. i would also like to say that i wish the agreements with turkey to continue, but the other side must also be willing to implement them under the terms agreed. i have very serious concerns about the future of turkey and whether we are not really seeing the birth of a new authoritarian regime or even a dictatorship, but are we also helping to do so in some way. i would very much like to see history ask what the european union was doing at this crucial moment for turkey, so that we do not have to be ashamed.
the question posed by the blue card. madam speaker, you are the next in line to call for women to be able to have abortions as a solution to rape. do you really believe that abortion is the best solution to prevent further rape? is there no other way to prevent women from being raped? wouldn't that be a better solution?
madam president, i think we can all agree that supporting women and protecting them from violence is an important part of our foreign relations activities. please respect that we have different opinions on some of the issues. i agree that the foreign service should be active and financially support women's education, women's rights, women's dignity, women's health care, women's employment, of course we can agree to all of that. but i see more ideology in the draft report than concrete proposals to help women. in societies that do not recognize human rights, where ignorance prevails, we must fight above all for human rights and security for all people. where violence and rape are part of everyday life, as my colleague mentioned, we can say sudan, syria, where supporting abortion is really not the solution. the solution is to fight violence, to bring peace and to protect every life. the solution is to change governments that are maintained by force, like the government of bashar assad.
madam president, i am fortunate to be involved in youth policy. young people are very critical, but they're also honest, and i like to listen to them. we're making policy here that we should be making after consulting the young people. i know that they were very pleased with the proposal for a multiannual financial framework for the next period, namely the doubling of the erasmus+ programme. i think we really hit home with the young people. and i hope that we will also be able to agree on a good framework for the european solidarity corps, which should be primarily a tool for volunteering. they also expect us to improve the implementation of youth guarantees in the member states, we should not overlap with instruments such as the european solidarity corps and youth guarantees. unfortunately, the report we're about to approve contains things i can't agree with. i don't know what the youth strategy has to do with the introduction of sex education. i don't think it belongs there. we should not demand that the european union guarantees the social standard of every child, that is the child guarantee. we should demand this from the member states, the member states should advocate for free education, quality health care, but the european union cannot do that.
i have read with great interest, madam president, the report on the implementation of the european union youth strategy. once again, i must commend the willingness of the right to self-criticise, who are already willing to admit that young europeans are becoming the first victims of underinvestment in education and culture, unemployment and cuts in social services. as a result, most of them fear for their future and feel sacrificed to economic interests. the left has said this since the crisis, but the right has only now accepted it and is surprised that support for extremist groups is growing. the truth is, even frankenstein was surprised when he created the monster. in any case, it is chilling to read that almost one in three young people aged 18 to 24 in the european union is at risk of poverty or social exclusion. sad record of austerity policy, sad record of right-wing policy.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, first of all i need to applaud frédérique ries, not because she is a member of my group but because i think we have a very good report in front of us and, of course, i know that all the shadows have contributed. i think ecodesign proves that it is a useful tool. we definitely see that in terms of the reduction in energy consumption and, of course, it also has a positive impact on fuel imports and in reducing emissions. so the policy delivers. i think that that is clear. consumers also profit and i think that has also been underlined, even though we hear all the time that this is yet another dictate from brussels. this also shows that we still have a bit of a problem with the mind-set. we hear that in the political debates, campaigns, and i think we need to reinforce and sharpen up a little bit our communication. ecodesign criteria should also, in my opinion, be broadened. so far, ecodesign primarily focuses on energy consumption, but that should not be the only criterion. i would say that we have to focus on our resource efficiency and therefore criteria like recyclability, upgradability, durability, reparability all have to be taken into account. the scope of ecodesign should be extended. the sole scope of the ecodesign directive covers energy and energy-related products, but what about other product groups, for example ict products, which contain a number of precious elements, or furniture, which definitely creates a large part of our landfill? composition of products has the same relevance as energy consumption, in my opinion, and therefore ecodesign should be considered as a part of the circular economy, and that has been underlined. a last remark: priority, in my opinion, should be given to those product groups which have the highest potential. so there is work to be done, and i am sure that we will progress on that.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, first of all, let me thank the rapporteur for her excellent cooperation in preparing the report. ecodesign has brought real added value in terms of saving energy and resources. this is acknowledged by the industries concerned, as well as by non-governmental organisations and experts from the member states. the potential offered by the current directive should be fully exploited. all environmental impacts of products should always be considered in terms of their composition, durability, disassembly, repairability and recyclability, already at the design stage. but that is no longer enough to meet our growing consumption and the resulting problems. it's time to think more about the objects we use every day. this need is manifested today and every day. let's look at the crisis we're facing right now with plastics. it would take so little. i have long argued that a new reform, a strengthening and a fundamental extension of ecodesign is the real key to the development of the circular economy. the new wording should cover a much wider product portfolio, be properly linked to waste and chemicals legislation and competent authorities should have more powers to enforce compliance by processors and producers. i expect that from the next proposal from the european commission, if not this one, then at least the new one.
mr president, i would like to stress the importance of this petition, because the european parliament should respond to the number of petitions and the violations of the directive on fixed-term work in the public sector, as well as to the precarious working conditions of workers with zero-hour contracts and the problems of trade union representation and disparities in social security systems. i would like to say that the czech republic, for example, changed its labour legislation just after joining the european union or under the influence of joining the european union, and that this influence of european law has been clearly positive on the labour market. i would like to emphasize that i agree that the states and, of course, the european institutions should combat precarious employment, such as zero-hour contracts, by ensuring that european legislation is respected, and in particular the case law of the court of justice, as my colleagues have already pointed out. i think that at the same time the european commission should consider legislation that would effectively tackle the problem of employer practices that lead to unsafe working conditions. on the other hand, i would like to emphasise that the conditions on the free market are also rather uncertain for employers and i therefore believe that one fixed-term employment relationship is acceptable. i agree that the security of workers should also be strengthened. at the same time, i would like to condemn in conclusion the extension of fixed-term employment contracts to cover needs that are not temporary in nature, which is to say, in effect, the circumvention of legislation whereby the employer abuses the possibility of concluding this employment relationship again.
mr president, as has been said, the effort to save the nuclear agreement cannot overshadow the protection of human rights, because this protection is one of the constitutional foundations of the european union. human rights are not for sale. how can we trust the european union to respect the nuclear deal when iran does not respect the citizens of the european union? iran, unfortunately, confirms that it is a country that does not want to respect basic human rights, executes hundreds of people a year, converting to christianity is punishable by 10 to 15 years in prison. eu citizens are being tried in iran on the basis of forced confessions. ms. zaghari-ratcliffe has been held in an iranian prison for over two years. as regards the european union citizens imprisoned by iran, the european union must use all its options to secure the release not only of mrs zaghari-ratcliffe but of all the others.
mr president, the situation in iran is, in my view, absolutely intolerable. iran has supported terrorist groups, committed systematic and massive human rights violations. it's at the top of the world's execution list for its own citizens. we see citizens protesting in iran and then disappearing and never appearing again. i think this regime deserves the unequivocal condemnation and pressure of the international community. the dual nationality of iran must be respected and we must speak out, especially in this situation where the united states of america has withdrawn from the nuclear deal. the situation is a bit more favorable for us, we can use that as leverage. please make a strong case for the protection of human rights, call on the institutions of the european union to defend these human rights in their dealings with iran. of course, i call for the release of those unjustly punished.
the author. mr president, first of all i would like to thank you, i think it is not very often that we negotiate a resolution for so long and that we spend so much time on it. i think it's important to say that we've really thought through every paragraph that's in this resolution, because the situation in saudi arabia is not simple, and i think it needs to be seen in some context. i would like to make a personal statement on the violation of the human rights of women in saudi arabia, which was the subject of this resolution. i'm glad we were able to negotiate a resolution with fairly reasonable compromises. the saudi arabian government is a major player in the relations between the european union and the middle east, and we cannot ignore the fact that the international commitments to which saudi arabia has itself committed in the field of human rights and women's rights are being violated. on the other hand, i want to appreciate the tremendous progress that saudi arabia has made in recent months, as women's rights are continuously being strengthened and, from our point of view, there have been huge reforms. the resolution expresses rather serious concerns about the detention of several women and men who protested in the field of human rights. i think it is important that saudi arabia investigate and explain these cases thoroughly and send a clear signal to the international community that it wants to make significant progress in respecting human rights. the right to a fair trial, the right to access to a court of law, the right to a defence and other rights must also be respected in saudi arabia.
mr president, we have already discussed the human rights situation in saudi arabia on many occasions, and i must once again call for the release of mr badawi, the sakharov prize laureate, who is unfortunately still in prison. but i would also like to acknowledge the reforms that the crown prince has introduced, whether it's a ban on driving or a restriction on male guardianship. however, i would like to say that according to a certain saying, a tree is known by its fruit. i'm not sure at this point what the fruit in saudi arabia is now. i think it's important at this point to speak up and say that we are watching this situation, that we are watching it very closely and to call on the crown prince to actually use not just words but concrete actions. and specifically, the people who were released and the dramatic improvement in the human rights situation in saudi arabia.
mr president, we have also discussed sudan here repeatedly and it is always the same: violations of women's rights, child slavery, forced child labour, child marriage and now we are talking about the death penalty. the death penalty for rape, which was objective, the woman said no and no is no. how many times are we going to talk about sudan? i believe that we have to put real diplomatic pressure on this country and our last resort is to limit development aid and to give it to non-profit organizations that may be operating in the area. so yes, please, let's step up our diplomatic efforts. in the time that i have left, i would like to condemn in the strongest terms what mr sośnierz has said here, it is a real disgrace the way he has spoken, and i think it is as reprehensible as the sudanese action.
madam president, i would like to explain why i supported this report, in particular because i believe that consumers would greatly benefit from this measure. it is an anti-fraud measure in all member states. i believe that cooperation between states in the market is essential and i also expect the european commission to coordinate this action against crossborder fraud. the over-running and cheating of the meter is hurting consumers across europe. for this reason, i would like to express my support for the use of the eucaris system, which is already being used by some countries. last but not least, i also think it is important that all member states recognise that such odometer tampering is a criminal offence, as the czech courts have ruled.
madam president, i have supported this report. in the words of a czech film, a bit of a classic: "we've managed to get some dirt here". this is a fraudulent act, a counterfeit, a misrepresentation of consumers, of customers, of buyers. i am very pleased that the european parliament has reached a fairly broad consensus on the need for new legislation, and that pressure should be put on other european institutions, in particular the european commission, to take action on this issue as well. it is important to protect our consumers, we members are ready for this, and it is now important that this united european action is really backed up by the good examples from abroad, such as the slovak model, the belgian model. i want to take a firm stand against this fraudulent behaviour by fraudsters and i think we should do this by taking a simple, uncomplicated administrative action across europe.
madam president, we all want a europe that protects citizens, and i therefore appreciate the efforts to strengthen the civil protection cooperation mechanism. with natural disasters increasing and intensifying in europe, it is of course important that we strengthen this system. it is only voluntary so far and this voluntary cooperation does not ensure sufficiently effective assistance. i therefore welcome the creation of resceu and consider it logical that the european commission should decide directly on the granting of assistance through the new resceu capacities. unfortunately, i could not support the draft decision because i am fundamentally opposed to erasmus+ being used for purposes other than education and youth mobility. in fact, the draft decision of the committee contained this recommendation and the proposal to train civil servants through this programme, and i cannot agree with that.
madam president, i must say at the outset that i did indeed hesitate to vote on this report, partly because the czech chamber of deputies, for example, made comments on this proposal, disagreed with it and argued that it violated the principle of subsidiarity. of course, when it comes to natural disasters affecting civilians, we have to work to improve the system, that's for sure. on the other hand, if proposals are put into this framework that really have nothing to do with, for example, erasmus+ educational activities, i had to raise my eyebrows very high. it was essential to me in my decision that the civil protection and its mechanism should really improve and that we should strive for. finally, i supported this report with this knowledge and therefore i am also giving this oral explanation.
madam president, i have supported this motion for a resolution. i consider this instrument to be of truly extraordinary importance. he's backing substantial funding for specific projects in transport, in energy, in the digital world. it is also important for decarbonisation, for example to meet the goals of the paris agreement. for the czech republic, which is the heart of europe in terms of transport routes, this instrument is also extremely important, so i supported this resolution. i would also like to say that i consider the amount to be used to support this instrument to be really insufficient, it needs to be increased and for this reason i want the european institutions to strengthen this instrument in the future. i have already gladly supported this motion for a resolution.
madam president, international family day is an opportunity for us to reflect on the foundation upon which our lives are built. let me quote: "the family is the place where a person's personality is formed. a space for human capital creation, education and growth of future generations. as such, it is without doubt the most fundamental and important unit of our society. only stable and prosperous families guarantee a good environment for raising children, sustainable development and a functioning and cohesive society. the role of families in society is irreplaceable. ladies and gentlemen, this is not an archaic text. this is the concept of the family policy of the government of the czech republic from 2017, so the text is very current. i'm glad i got to read it, because it's true, we just need a family. but the question is, how do we take care of it? the european union has no direct competence in family policy, but in fact every decision we take here affects families in their lives. we should support parents, we should appreciate their care, and we should also support parenting education. unfortunately, today, for example, we have instead approved recommendations for social education, for child guarantees. instead of families, the european union is supposed to guarantee social standards. i am a great supporter of the european union, but i fear that if we question the family, our common foundation, then we are also breaking the foundation of the european community. madame la présidente, la dernière fois, i had the pleasure of announcing that i was grand-mother for the first time. today, i am grandmother for the second time and i have here my petite-fille, whose name is stella. cest aussi ma famille, cest la fête des familles. this is the family feast. alors, merci beaucoup for your understanding.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadows for the excellent work they put into preparing the committee report. your vote tomorrow concerns the first of the two proposals we put forward on the european market infrastructure regulation, or emir, in 2017. this proposal is about simplifying emir, reducing costs and burdens where possible without calling into question the core objectives of emir: financial stability, risk mitigation and transparency. the proposal is part of the commission’s regulatory fitness and performance programme. it emphasises the need for cost reduction and a simplification. the need to revise some of emir’s requirements became evident from the responses we got to the commission’s general call for evidence on financial services legislation in 2016. our proposal is technical but important. its savings potential is big. the estimated cost reductions are up to eur 6.9 billion in fixed or one-off costs, and up to eur 2.6 billion in annual operational costs. our proposal includes a more professional clearing obligation for non-financial firms: it exempts the smallest financial counterparties from the clearing obligation altogether; it introduces a new mechanism to suspend clearing in exceptional circumstances; it incentivises clearing and improves access to it; and it simplifies reporting requirements, in particular for businesses without compromising the quality of data. companies, market participants, regulators and supervisors all agree on the need for this proposal and largely support it. i am very pleased that the debate and the vote takes place now as the adoption of the proposal is urgent. as mr langen outlined, pension funds currently benefit from an exemption from central clearing which expires very soon. without legislative change this exemption cannot continue, but we still need this exemption for a limited time. while the market has progressed, it has not yet adopted viable solutions for pension funds to centrally clear their derivatives. in recent months the commission has brought together all stakeholders to discuss progress towards a clearing solution for pension funds, and last week i hosted a high-level meeting with those stakeholders and i was happy that some of you joined us for this. i was glad to see that industry stakeholders all committed to design and implement a solution. we need a bit of time to put this commitment into practice, but let me be clear, we are not giving a carte blanche. progress during this extended exemption period must be monitored, and the commission will set up a monitoring group for this purpose. finally, let me highlight again that the purpose of this proposal is to introduce some targeted amendments to simplify and to make emir requirements more proportionate. but these amendments need to uphold the fundamental objectives of emir. for example, when it comes to reducing requirements to report or exchange bilateral margins for derivatives: if we go too far, supervisors will no longer be able to supervise and monitor over-the-counter derivatives and mitigate systemic risks. we must keep in mind that this piece of legislation is one of the cornerstones of the new system we put in place after the crisis in agreement with the g20. it’s our collective responsibility to ensure that it remains effective.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the original emir entered into force in 2012 and it is rightly considered the gold standard worldwide, but since the entry into force of emir it has been possible to identify areas where further attention is needed, or indeed where there is a risk of duplicative requirements which can add costs for firms dealing in derivatives. in particular, it is right that we are streamlining the reporting requirements by moving toward single-sided reporting. it is also positive that there will be exemptions for intra-group transactions and the removal of the backloading obligation. furthermore, it is made clear in the ep report that data quality is more important than quantity. we must also must bear in mind the practical aspects of implementation of emir. through the emir refit, we have been able to identify areas which can be further streamlined in the regulation. for example, an exemption for certain small financial counterparties from the clearing obligation, and it will now be possible for the commission to suspend the clearing obligation in cases of instability in the markets. finally, i am glad that the rapporteur has included a proposal to bridge the limbo period for pension funds. we must ensure that the pension funds are able to continue to make use of the exemption in the period between august of this year and the entry into force of the emir refit regulation. this will be one of the key priorities for my group as we move towards our negotiations with the council. my thanks to the rapporteur and to the shadows.
mr president, civil aviation in the european union and the united states currently accounts for more than 60% of world civil aviation. easa has been performing the tasks for which it was set up with relative reliability. it is logical that new phenomena have emerged in the aviation industry over the years and that, at a time when air transport is developing dynamically, it is necessary that the agency's new tasks respond to the situation. this amendment includes, for example, a new chapter on aviation safety management. the development of light aircraft, i.e. ultralights and lsas, is a positive momentum for the compromise reached in their parameters. but i believe that sooner or later we're going to have to come up with different definitions of payload. for many years, there has been a heated debate on the definition of the activities of aircraft modellers on the one hand and on the other hand the regulation of unmanned aircraft, so-called drones. i consider the current form of the regulation to be a good compromise. as with any compromise, of course, i see room for improvement. however, i will vote to accept it as it stands without any substantial changes.
madam president, thank you for the floor. i would like to thank the rapporteur for presenting a very good report. he emphasized responsible aquaculture several times in his speech. the report also includes a term like sustainability, and i think that's really key to our future in any industry, but of course also in aquaculture. when we see industrial fishing literally plundering our oceans, and many coastal areas are virtually devoid of life, that's when our future and aquaculture becomes more important. we need to encourage innovation and research, science in this area, and support it with european funds. i think it has great potential and i also liked that the rapporteur also stressed the importance of regional objectives in this particular area. subsidiarity is necessary, but it is precisely in these areas that eu support is truly crucial for our future, i stress again.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur again for her introduction, because she has tackled a difficult subject. it is the first report on recreational fishing, as already mentioned. first of all, i would like to say that i am not in favour of any new legislation in this area and i do not think that the rapporteur has asked for it or even spoken about it. i think it is important that, if there is no uniform definition, it can of course be achieved by a certain procedure, but it is important that we really support recreational fishing where it is primarily self-sufficient, that is, in particular in those coastal areas. it is probably also good to support certain financial projects related to this recreational fishing. i understand that it is important that we also get some statistical and scientific data on this fishery, but on the other hand i feel that it is somewhere between a hobby and, say, a recreational activity, which probably should not be further regulated or should not be the subject of our dramatic interest.
madam president, in three days' time, the celebration of all football players and fans of this sport will begin, the world cup will begin in moscow. football is a beautiful sport that unites, overcomes barriers. you know that slogan "respect" that's racism, both messi and ronaldo say. it's a shame that sports officials don't consider human rights a prerequisite for hosting top sporting events. it's not the fault of the players or the fans, but i'm personally going to have to boycott this championship. i'm not going to watch it. after the sochi olympics, followed by the annexation of crimea, what are we to expect after the moscow championships? ladies and gentlemen, i hope that the championship will still succeed, that the best players will win in fair play, and i also believe that freedom and democracy will one day reign in russia.
madam president, i would like to speak today on the question of european solidarity, solidarity between the member states of the eu. i consider this principle to be fundamental, i would even venture to say that it was at the birth of the eu, and it is on this birth and on the principle of the functioning of the eu that i would like to illustrate the approach of the czech government, which, on the contrary, emphasises only the aspect of european unanimity and completely ignores european solidarity. we need european solidarity at a time when we are in a difficult situation, in all the member states, where natural disasters, certain tragedies, and, god forbid, terrorism, may occur. that is where european solidarity has its place. i would also like to call on the czech government not to focus solely on the question of european unanimity, but also to put more emphasis on european solidarity, which it really lacks.
madam president, the council has several items on its agenda, but i believe that the main issue should be tackling migration. if we really want to stop the rise of populism and the rise of extremism in the member states. the european parliament has voted against the minority that disagreed with the libe report on the common asylum system, the so-called dublin iv. i would like to ask the council where it is going, whether it intends to vote on this matter by qualified majority. if the council is going to overrule those who disagree and are still in the minority on this issue and want a position that is consensual, that is not coercive and that addresses the issue of migration in a way that there is flexible solidarity.
mr president, the euro is one of the symbols of the european union. it is an important economic tool, supporting the efficiency of the single market and reducing costs for people and for businesses. i am glad that, despite the fact that some people wrongly blame europe for mistakes that have nothing to do with the currency, support of the euro among europeans is strong – actually, probably the strongest it has been since its introduction. the monetary union, as well as the eu, is a work in progress. that’s why the commission has proposed that the package be released in december. this forms a very good basis for the debate on how to improve the european monetary union (emu) and the eu. but this package is by no way a replacement for responsible and good economic policy in the member states: we can only achieve a successful, stable and growing europe with such reforms. not all parts of the package have the same importance and same urgency. let me mention just two that i consider the most important. the first is the european monetary fund: i believe that this proposal is a hectic way of creating the european financial stabilisation mechanism (esfm)/european stability mechanism (esm), and it can incorporate other policies into the framework of this huge amount of money that is used for supporting and strengthening european policy. i guess this is a good proposal. the second one is completion of ongoing initiatives, especially in the area of the banking union. i’m talking about single backstop and completion of the european deposit insurance scheme (edis). i believe that a compromise can be found, and i hope it will be found soon.
i would ask you, mr president, to proceed strictly, because this is the part dealing with the explanation of vote, and a point of order is only possible for this part, and i think that the honourable member did not speak about it at all. however, to what i'm about to say. i supported this report on recreational fishing for a number of reasons. first, it is clear that this is not a call for new legislation. i think it is very important to say at the outset that this is an own-initiative report which describes the problem but does not call for new legislation. secondly, it is clear that this recreational fishery fulfils a self-sustaining role in several regions. it is also very important for the regional economy and that is why i supported the report. we need a uniform definition, we need more data to analyse the problem, and i have therefore supported this position, or this report, also for the sake of finding these uniform definitions and transmitting the relevant scientific data.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because it aims to eliminate the knowledge gap and to achieve market transparency. this step will allow the relevant data calculated by the manufacturer in accordance with the certification methodology to be tracked and made available to the public. the data communicated to the commission will also be able to be passed on to third parties, which i appreciate, and which therefore request it. these third parties, including universities, regional governments and non-governmental organisations, will thus be able to independently verify the accuracy of the data provided by the manufacturers and thus prevent new scandals, such as the one related to diesel emissions. the next step is to set stricter co2 emission standards for heavy-duty vehicles in line with the paris convention. i would like to say that i am of course in favour of the paris convention and that is why i have supported the draft of this report.
mr president, it has become a habit, i must say a bad habit in this parliament, to speak constantly about matters which are not in its competence or in the competence of the eu at all, and that is precisely the case with this report on the modernisation of teaching. i can of course agree with many of the points in this report, that it emphasises digitalisation, the so-called knowledge society or the role of science and technology subjects in education, but that is not the point. the point is that teaching or education and training policy is not a matter for the eu, but for the member states. these determine the structure of education and the requirements that are placed on education. the eu can of course help by organising and co-financing various exchange programmes such as erasmus, but it does not organise teaching and we should therefore not go beyond these limits, although i understand that some colleagues are improving their parliamentary statistics with these reports. i therefore did not vote for this report and abstained.
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the iran nuclear agreement (2018/2715(rsp)).
colleagues, once again, i have been as tolerant as i could be as chair, but next time i really will be cutting off the microphone within seconds of when you should finish. i think it is unfair to your colleagues.
for the group gue/ngl. madam president, chile is undoubtedly one of the most advanced countries in latin america, according to a number of indicators, including the human development index. contacts between the eu and chile at both political and economic level have been long-standing and developing rapidly. chile contributes to the development of dialogue in the colombian peace process. the long-standing problem is the relationship with the indigenous population, which has culminated in the recent conflict with the mapuche tribe. equally delicate is the question of negotiating bolivia's access to the pacific ocean. this one comes back with varying intensity from the chilean-bolivian-peruvian war of the 1880s. the eu-chile joint parliamentary committee has expressed support for the modernisation of the association agreement in its joint statements, most recently at its meeting on 22 january 2018. the respect of human rights and fundamental freedoms is essential. in chile, a change has been made to the severely restrictive abortion law. it is also important to agree on the need to combat climate change. an important element is the promotion of the effort to ensure that the lowest-income people in chile have unrestricted access to higher education, which is also desirable to promote in eu countries. the agreement promotes the expansion of student and youth exchanges through various programmes such as erasmus+. despite the many positive elements, i have reservations about the extension of economic and military cooperation between the two partners, and therefore i will abstain in the final vote.
mr. chairman, 10 years ago, the russian military sent to the region by vladimir putin seized a large chunk of georgian territory. together, the occupied abkhazia and south ossetia make up one-fifth of the georgian state. i am convinced that if it were not for the lukewarm reaction of the international community to the aggression of the russian army in chechnya in the 1990s, there would have been no attack on georgia. if we had stood clearly and confidently on the side of georgia in 2008, we might not have even seen the annexation of crimea. the georgian conflict is not frozen. in 2018, 10 years after the occupation of south ossetia, the russian federation is taking de facto steps to annex abkhazia and south ossetia and join the russian federation. the commission's lax response to aggression, injustice and injustice is never worth it in the long run. russia is a security risk to the eu, madam high representative.
mr. chairman, we are commemorating 10 years since the russian invasion of georgia, abkhazia and south ossetia. this occupation continues. unfortunately, at the time, we didn't register any major rejection and strong reaction from the west. maybe that's why russia was encouraged to expand further, because then we had the occupation of crimea and also parts of ukraine. so it is not worthwhile to stand by and watch. i am therefore pleased with the comments made by mrs mogherini, that the eu is supporting georgia and also the occupied territories, where it is developing certain programmes to further integrate these territories into georgia and democratic europe. we are also commemorating the 50th anniversary of the occupation of czechoslovakia, and i would like to remind mr scholz that this was also called fraternal aid at the time, but it was an occupation and in georgia it is an occupation.
madam chairman, the world around us is changing. the union must cooperate much more closely with nato to ensure the security of our citizens. moreover, the eu must increase its own responsibility for its security and defence. permanent pesco defence cooperation should be only a first step. nato and the eu currently have over 40 actions in which they develop cooperation. we need to learn together, for example, how to counter hybrid threats or cooperate in cyber defence. another area of cooperation i see is in the diversification of the arms industry. put simply, the eu makes weapons, nato uses weapons when it needs to defend itself. the state actor that is currently the biggest threat to international peaceful coexistence is the russian federation. i therefore welcome the strengthening of nato's forward presence on the eastern border of the alliance and the deployment of four multinational battle groups in estonia, latvia, lithuania and poland. i am pleased that the report says that the joint strategic approach of the two organisations towards russia needs to be strengthened.
madam president, i would like to begin by saying that ukraine is a bit like our black conscience. let us recall the budapest memorandum of 1994, which guaranteed the territorial sovereignty and independence of ukraine under the auspices of the united kingdom, the united states and others. since we could not help ukraine militarily, we must at least help with financial instruments and other aid for ukraine. the independent anti-corruption court that was set up a few days ago is proof that ukraine is indeed making progress in reform, even though the progress should undoubtedly be more drastic. we must do everything, not just reforms, of course, but also questions about the people who are doing the work. i see the progress that is being made in ukraine, although i would welcome a more drastic approach. i think ukraine needs our help and i'm happy to support this resolution.
madam president, the warsaw declaration of the nato summit held in 2016 recognised cyberspace as an operational arena in which nato must defend itself as effectively as it does in the air, on land and at sea. cyber space knows no borders, and hostile attacks can be political, security or economic. these include attacks on vital infrastructure, cyber espionage, mass surveillance of eu citizens, disinformation campaigns, the spread of malware, restrictions on internet access and the functioning of the it system. attacks are being carried out by a variety of states - russia, china and north korea - as well as non-state actors. the european cybersecurity agency in its 2017 report says that there is unwavering evidence of attacks on democracy and cyberwarfare. these activities threaten our security, public order, democracy and our strategic autonomy. the response to major incidents should always be a joint eu response, including restrictive measures.
madam president, i am very pleased that the eu is working to strengthen its cybersecurity rules to address the growing threats. 86% of europeans believe that the risk of cybercrime is increasing and that there is therefore a need to address and address this issue. we need an actionable response plan to large-scale cyber attacks, to protect european societies and above all our citizens. in this context, we must not forget the education of the population. reducing risk through adequate threat awareness is a prevention method that is worthwhile for all member states. only an educated population will also better understand the challenges associated with cyber threats. because again, if we don't address the problem in a comprehensive way, it can have a negative impact on our security.
draftsman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. madam president, i would like to express myself in today's speech as a concrete, consistent defender of cohesion policy and to congratulate the rapporteur on a very good report. cohesion policy is important not only for the regions because it removes disadvantages, but also because it helps in concrete ways and also because it comes from the bottom up. we don't have to pretend that cohesion policy is some kind of cinderella, but rather that it can take advantage of the latest scientific methods. the way in which cohesion policy really helps is by focusing on new technologies and innovation. there are many good projects in the area of cohesion policy, waste prevention, recycling, recycling, efficiency improvement, reduction of consumption, for example in energy use. the role of municipalities and cities in the use of new technologies, biological waste in agriculture is also important. we need not pretend that cohesion policy is a static phenomenon, on the contrary it is very much alive, and there are a number of good proposals, concrete measures, in this report. i therefore fully support it.
madam president, cohesion policy is the key to making the circular economy a reality, even in countries that have a slippery waste infrastructure. if we are to achieve the ban on municipal waste disposal, as we have recently agreed here, we need to give poorer countries the means to do so. in countries like the czech republic, slovakia and poland, we are long behind in building infrastructure for sorting and recycling, and energy recovery is still in its infancy. although things are changing here, too. we know that ending landfilling and meeting the goal of increasing recycling will not be easy. i am therefore very pleased that the european commission has decided to support the circular economy financially not only in this programming period, which is now ending, but also in the new programming period, thus enabling them to make a smoother transition to a low-carbon and circular economy. this support thus exemplifies the very essence of cohesion policy, which is based on the requirement to reduce the disparity between the levels of development of the various member states.
mr president, the commissioner's statement, and the statements of many of you, show that if we do not adopt the convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, the istanbul convention, then we have no instrument, no legal basis to combat violence against women. but i want to vigorously protest against this injustice. because we have here the european convention on human rights, which clearly fights against torture, inhuman treatment, protects the dignity of human life and respect for family and private life. citizens ask me: "what will happen if we do not accept the istanbul convention?" and i say to them: "in the czech republic, the istanbul convention does not bring anything new". the czech republic has had a law against domestic violence since 2006. ladies and gentlemen, i understand that in some countries this may be important, and i respect your opinion, but please respect the subsidiarity and decision-making of other member states.
mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister for his realistic speech. prime minister, you spoke about the rule of law and said that this should apply to every state. would you also agree that international law is part of the rule of law principle? if so, there are grave breaches of international law taking place, like the ones in crimea and georgia. if a member state proposes to leave such grave breaches of international law unpunished and, for instance, to abolish sanctions, would you agree that such a state is working against the rule of law and thereby against the values of the european union?
mr. president, mr. prime minister, the eu is not working. the world of european institutions and rhetoric that paints everything pink is not the world that people live in. it's a world of endlessly changing regulations, increasingly stringent and brutally ruthless and yet unnecessary. it's a world of prohibitions, orders, duties and fines. a world where established traditions and nouns don't apply. the butter is just butter, the light bulb can't get hot, and the vacuum cleaners don't suck. instead of democracy we have a democratic deficit, instead of free trade we have a single market. free movement of capital is a wonderful thing, but the vast majority of europeans have no capital. the ruthlessness of the united kingdom, which has chosen to exercise its legitimate right, is evident at every turn. and migration has shown that the eu is not managing its own existence and wants to address its failures with solidarity among its member states. it's a world where citizens have absolutely no say in what happens, and that's what we have to change. we must create an alternative, a viable path that will fix the european continent, a blueprint for establishing cooperation on better foundations.
mr president, i supported this draft report because i believe it is very important that cohesion policy also responds to the current challenges of the time. this is a problem of the circular economy and the recycling of raw materials, among others. this report has also met my expectations because it deals with specific projects that are important for waste prevention, recycling, energy efficiency, reducing consumption, and actually putting raw materials back into circulation so that they are not used just once. i am very pleased that a specific report is responding to these issues, calling on cities, municipalities and farmers to cooperate in the case of bio-waste. i think this is very important, and it is also important to me that it shows that cohesion policy is not some kind of cinderella, but is the dominant eu policy and has a bearing on the other innovations and technologies that we are coming up with.
i will still return for a second to mr pedicini and his reference to rule 165. i would say that i did not find the disruption to the session which is stipulated in the rule that you referred to. having said that, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, i know that this is a difficult topic and a sensitive one. it can be heated, but i think that we should refrain from unnecessary strong language. that is a general comment without reference to anyone that has so far spoken, but the chair would appreciate it if we would keep in the margins of solid european parliament culture.
ms forenza, you ran out of time. i would appreciate it if you would show respect both to the chair and to your colleagues – once again, i think that this is difficult and sensitive and i can understand that there might also be domestic political aspects referred to, but i would really appreciate it if we could stay in the margins of a debate which is respectful for this house.
i was looking at the timetable. we are behind schedule. we also have an extensive list for the catch-the-eye procedure, so from now on i am not in a position to bring in any blue card requests. i do appreciate your understanding.
i can only second that. if we would refrain from any insults, indeed – not just in this chamber.
for those of you who were not present when i made the announcement, we are well behind schedule and we have an extensive list for the catch-the-eye procedure, so a few minutes ago i said that i am not in a position to accept any blue cards.
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank you for this very lively debate on the migratory situation in the mediterranean. i take from this debate that we all share finally – or almost all of us – the same objectives, and that is very important for us. there cannot be one and only one answer. there is no single solution and we all know that. no member state can do this alone. it is impossible. the only way is to adopt all the missing elements and to implement a comprehensive migration policy. this policy starts with cooperation with third countries. it continues with the protection of our common european borders – our external borders. it is in line with a future-proof european asylum system based on solidarity and responsibility. it is very much relying on effective return of people that have no right to stay in europe. it is completed by the creation of legal pathways to come to europe and by effective integration policies for those legally living among us. we need to continue our common work and our joint efforts in all aspects in parallel. as regards some of the points you raised – mr corrao and many of his colleagues here referred to the support given to italy – we have worked continuously and relentlessly over the past three years to ensure that much greater solidarity is shown to all member states facing disproportionate migration pressures due to their geographical situation. i want to commend the herculean efforts made by italy over these past years. the commission – and you all know that it has stood and continues to stand by italy politically, operationally and financially – has granted more than eur 653 million to italy under the eu migration and home affairs funds to date. on top of that, we have offered eur 193 million in emergency assistance. the european borders and the coastguard agency deployment is currently deploying 260 experts for joint operation themis. eighty asylum experts from member states and interim staff have been deployed to support the operational activities. europol guest officers are present in several hotspots and 12 963 persons in need of international protection have been relocated. we are also working closely with italy to prevent departures from northern africa. we have invested eur 200 million in libya to assist migrants, and eur 46 million for border management. we will also grant tunisia eur 25 million for a border management project. as i said, this approach has brought results. arrivals in italy have decreased significantly. i look forward to working with the new italian government to ensure that arrivals decrease even further. as i said during my introductory remarks, i am not here to play any blame games, and anyway it doesn’t help. the aquarius incident shows that we need structural solutions and that solidarity cannot be an ad hoc or one-off thing. this is the essence of our discussions on dublin, on stronger external borders, on cooperation with third countries and on our proposals today for more migration and borders funding. these are european challenges which require genuine european solutions. this is not the responsibility of italy alone or of malta alone or of spain alone. this is the responsibility of the european union and its member states as a whole. under these very pressing circumstances, and given the experience and the lessons we have learned over the last few years, we should reiterate our determination to safeguard the principles and unity of europe in a spirit of responsibility. we should stand as one, guaranteeing a future-proof, balanced and fair european migration policy. all of us here have a great responsibility to show leadership and to ensure the unity and cohesion of our societies, avoiding divisive rhetoric. migration has become a challenge for our unity. it is up to us to turn this into an opportunity, into a strong bond among eu institutions, among member states and among our citizens.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, i have listened carefully to your views on the humanitarian situation in the mediterranean sea. the topic is of crucial importance, and it is my hope that we will be able to find a common solution quickly. the migrants certainly deserve that but so do our constituencies. we shouldn’t forget that most of the refugees and asylum seekers, particularly children and women, were affected by war and terror in their home countries. migration is one of the major humanitarian challenges that the european union is currently still facing and, as we discussed together yesterday and today, we need a holistic approach to migration management. the european union response to this challenge has two main dimensions: strengthening the instruments for limiting irregular migration and addressing the root causes of migration. many of you referred today to the reform of the dublin regulation system and – sharing the common understanding that the european union needs a properly functioning common asylum system – the council has not stopped working to enhance the security of our citizens, to strengthen border control and to manage the migratory process more efficiently. the council has listened to you carefully and we welcome parliament’s input in this debate. the bulgarian presidency fully shares your concerns and the sense of urgency around the need for asylum system reform which is both effective and protective. so we are doing our best to advance. we have proposed a qualitatively new approach to the dublin regulation. we are working not just on general principles but on the legal text of the regulation, article by article, and on concrete solutions. so we have built into the dublin regulation a new crisis mechanism for managing the migration and asylum systems in the union when under pressure. the presidency proposal provides clear criteria defining levels of pressure, and lays down measures aimed at establishing a proportionate response in each phase, allowing for timely mitigation, based on common action, of the challenges faced in addressing the root causes of the pressure at the very beginning, thus preventing escalation of the situation. the presidency is trying to strike a balance between responsibility and solidarity. as i have already mentioned in relation to the preparation for the european council meeting yesterday, the process of seeking consensus is now being led by the president of the european council. it is up to him and the leaders to look for compromises and propose a way ahead. any solution that will be found should take account of the interests of all member states – the frontline member states and also the member states that have been destination countries for asylum seekers. any decision will need to provide sustainable solutions that will help the union to cope with situations similar to the one we faced a couple days ago.
thank you, madam minister. i would like to thank you, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, for the discipline and mutual respect that you have shown. you made the chairing easier and it was a pleasure to chair this debate. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by andreas schwab, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on a proportionality test before adoption of new regulation of professions (com(2016)0822 – c8—0012/2017 – 2016/0404(cod))(a8—0395/2017).
madam president, i thank you for this motion. i regard it as a step in the right direction for an open internal market. the opposite is what we have seen recently on the ep's floor. instead of removing administrative barriers, new ones are being created, for example, in the adoption of the directive on the posting of workers. i personally believe that europe needs to be protected above all from protectionist measures by the member states and from social dumping by third countries. the imco committee recently buried the e-card proposals. it could at least make a small contribution to a more functioning market by reducing administrative barriers. however, it has been shown that even the removal of these barriers can be seen by some countries as an attack on their labour market. i am therefore pleased that we are at least giving this proposal from the services package a chance, and i believe that a common framework for the implementation of the proportionality test for all professions, including healthcare, will help to remove obstacles to greater mobility of persons, but at the same time will also contribute to strengthening the certainty and quality of the professions practised in the internal market. thank you, and i hope this motion will pass.
mr president, i think it is right that the eu monitors the situation of ethnic minorities and, if there are problems, demands that they be remedied and, of course, also supports the member states in addressing their situation. let me mention specifically the situation in the czech republic. the czech republic has its own roma integration strategy until 2020. it aims to reverse negative trends in roma development in education, employment, housing and social spheres. there are 245,000 roma in the czech republic, half of whom are integrated and half of whom still live in ghettos. let me say here that if we want to help and prevent ghettos, exclusion, poverty, we must help the roma, but the roma themselves must be willing and active. the czech government, and especially the schools themselves, are striving to integrate them into education, because this is the basic condition for their future successful life. and here too, the eu is helping, because eu funds have been used to prepare a number of programmes to integrate roma children and improve their education. i am proud that the czech republic has finally managed to correct the injustice and to properly repair the land on the site of the former roma concentration camp in letech u písku. it was the minister of culture of my political party who ended this activity, and this is a condition for roma to feel safe, to actively participate in improving their lives. we're gonna help them with that.
mr president, i also thank the commissioner for his report and the attention he has paid to the issue of language education. i think it's in the eu's interest to have people talking to each other. to do this, they undoubtedly need a lingua franca, which is english today, and if they are gifted, they can certainly master another foreign language. the eu must also promote education in the mother tongue. of course, it is in the interest of the member states to be active in promoting the language literacy of their citizens, but given the mobility it is also up to the eu to help them coordinate language education, and that is why we propose a mechanism for regular transparent assessment of language competences across the member states. the eu should support educational institutions that provide instruction in the official eu languages for citizens living outside their own member state. last but not least, we should also help to make university education accessible through an online system for the cross-border recognition and validation of language certificates for the purpose of school leaving certificates. we should also use the competence, the capacity, that the oecd has. i would like to thank my colleague mr malinov for his initiative and the commissioner for his cooperation.
mr president, despite the international ban on ivory exports, illegal ivory hunting and trade has reached record levels. it is estimated that between 20,000 and 30,000 african elephants are killed by poachers each year. one of the main reasons for this increase in illegal trade is the growing demand for ivory products in asia. but we must also acknowledge that demand for ivory in the eu is growing. in my work on the palm oil report, i have seen firsthand how the eu too often ignores how we contribute to the destruction of nature and biodiversity. but it doesn't pay to look the other way when it could be the cause of extinction. the eu has its obligations and must live up to them. there is no other way if we value natural resources, there is no other way if we value ourselves.
in writing. i am strongly in favour of closing the eu ivory market. the us, china, hong kong and the uk have already adopted measures to close their domestic markets that are much stricter than those currently in force in the eu. both the african elephant loxodonta africana and the indian elephant elephas maximus are listed in the annexes to the convention on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora (cites). under the current cites regime, international trade in ivory is prohibited, but domestic trade in ivory is not regulated by cites. therefore, the european parliament reiterates its call for the closure of the eu market for eu ivory. it should be noted that the illegal trade in ivory has more than doubled since 2007. illegal fishing has reached high levels in recent years. it is reported that poachers kill 55 elephants a day. since 2011, between 20,000 and 30,000 african elephants have been killed each year. although trade in ivory in the eu is strictly regulated by the eu regulation on trade in wildlife and wild fauna and the importation of ivory into the eu and its trade within the eu and its export from the eu are generally not allowed for commercial purposes, the eu has a major role to play. if the eu ivory market is not closed, we cannot expect any improvement.
mr president, allow me to begin by thanking my colleague mr zdrojewski for his report. it's so great that it was very difficult to prepare an amendment to it. culture, it's the monuments, it's the theater, it's the movies, but it's also how we treat each other, what kind of environment we create around us. cultural policy is often underestimated, undervalued, even financially, while culture is europe's greatest asset compared to the world. europe's creative industries and cultural heritage are the largest in the world and have enormous economic potential, contributing to european cohesion and unity in our diversity. at the same time, culture is also going through digitization. we're talking about copyright, and that includes the availability of copyrighted works on the internet. not just about availability, but about quality, and i want to emphasize that. mr zdrojewski's report responds to digitalisation in great detail. it emphasises the need for accessibility for disadvantaged groups. culture cannot be exclusive, which is why i also welcome the pilot project for 18-year-olds, discover europe, where young people can discover european culture for free. in short, we need to find effective solutions, to support culture from both public and private sources as an investment, and this starts with children in need of quality education and training for the future.
mr president, i believe that structural and financial barriers to access to culture are a major problem. yes, perhaps not the greatest, but certainly significant. access to culture is a fundamental right of all citizens and deserves our attention. the famous czech actor jan werich once said: "i think that civilization is not good if it is without culture. to be happy and content, a person needs not only physical comfort but also mental comfort. culture and civilization must go hand in hand. i agree with that quote completely. in the post-crisis era, we should make sure that culture is available to everyone, not just the elite. culture is not a matter for the elite, but for all without distinction. culture is such a human thing that if we don't take care of it, we risk a lot more than we think.
the question posed by the blue card. thank you for your list of who was corrupt and where. i'm fighting corruption, too, but i'm a little bit lacking in your contribution to how you would fight corruption. how have you personally contributed here, all this time, as part of the ep, to the fight against this crime? what have you done here? how many times have you been on committees that deal with this issue? can you give us a specific name?
madam president, as has been mentioned by my predecessors, corruption affects the whole system of the individual states, but also the union as a whole. how can we criticize corruption in certain states, like the middle east or russia or other countries, if we don't fight corruption ourselves in a systematic way? the european report on the fight against corruption was a personal disappointment to me. we see that the situation is deteriorating in many countries, and in many of the countries that have been mentioned here, unfortunately, the system, the way it is set up with european subsidies, shows that it can also encourage corruption. we have prime ministers accused of stealing european subsidies, and the eu pretends that there is no problem. anti-corruption policies don't work in the long run, which is why we're opening up the issue today. corruption is also the cause of many financial and social problems. italy was mentioned here, and we can look at sicily here, for example, and see how some of the funds are being directed. corruption is also the reason why many eu citizens no longer trust the eu institutions. if the eu does not sufficiently protect its interests, if it does not take rigorous action and breaks the rules, then no one will trust the eu. commissioner, you know better than i do that if the european commission is not transparent in certain projects and if it does not itself demand what it set out to do in the beginning, then it will not exist. i really don't want to live through this scenario. i don't think we need to tighten things up on corruption, we need to increase enforcement.
madam president, we have become accustomed to freedom as well as to the fact that we no longer know the feeling of hunger. after seven decades of peace, we have become accustomed to the comfort of not thinking about our own freedom. three days by car from strasbourg lies the annexed and occupied crimean peninsula, the homeland of ukrainian-born director oleh sentsov. crimea is home to the crimean tatars, a people of humility and courage. crimean tatars are a people who respect values and freedom. they are losing their freedom daily since the russian military occupied crimea in 2014. shentsov is now behind bars in the far north of russia, in the notorious city of camps and prisons of salechard. he was sentenced to 20 years in prison for alleged terrorism after protesting against the russian occupation of crimea. salechard was already one of the most famous symbols of the gulag before the war, under joseph vissarionovich stalin. it remains so today, and is proof that the kremlin today is rebuilding the gulag over and over again. the dubious fame of the gulag continued after the war. in 1947, stalin began building a railway in the far north between the mouth of the ob and the mouth of the yenisei. this salekhard gulag had the numbers 501 and 503. thousands of people died here, the track was never finished. even at the turn of the 2nd and 3rd millennium, salechard served the kremlin. hundreds of tortured chechen freedom fighters in the early years of the 21st century disappeared in the salekhard gulag. today, no one knows how many crimean tatars have disappeared here. the shadowhunters are here on hunger strike for all those who have done nothing wrong and yet have been deprived of their liberty. for those who were enslaved, kidnapped and tortured. shadow and his cellmates need our help. they need our attention. they need us to impose sanctions on the perpetrators of this injustice, the representatives of the russian federation. those who call for the lifting of sanctions against the russian federation are selling my freedom and yours, ladies and gentlemen. they sell a world where justice and respect for the law take their place. help free sentsov and the others! let's stop the gulag.
mr. chairman, today in russia begins the world cup and we will admire the modern village of potemkin in the form of painted football stadiums. but in their shadow are prisons with political prisoners, both domestic and foreign nationals, such as oleg sentsov. russia is an authoritarian regime in violation of international law. it's a regime that has no fundamental rights. i'm not just talking about illegal arrest here, i'm talking about torture. the list of those who have faced intimidation, physical attacks or false accusations simply for exercising their fundamental right to freedom of expression or assembly is long and growing. russia is acting just as illegally and imperialistically in its occupation of crimea or parts of georgia. it is our duty to save oleg sentsov. that's why today in football we say to him "oleg, you will never walk alone".
mr. chairman, i would like to speak today on behalf of mr. oleg sentsov, but of course also on behalf of others who are unjustly, unjustly imprisoned and whose human rights are being violated. when else should we raise our voices than today, when the world cup is starting in russia. i think we should put the spotlight on the other people who might be uncomfortable for russia. those facing arbitrary arrest, whose basic human rights are being violated, persecuted by the opposition. i think that today is the day that we should really raise our voices and put these people in the spotlight. while mr. trump wants to invite russia to the negotiating table, i think we should not back down. they should not have backed down and been consistent, because russia understands only the power of pressure.
the author. mr president, allow me to express my own views on the resolution concerning nabil rajab. the epp/ecr resolution is a resolution that really reflects this case and other cases where people are imprisoned in bahrain for their political opinions and for their activities. in this sense, the eu, through this resolution, expresses its views and concerns on this case, which has a far wider scope. since 2011, more than 13 activists have been arrested in bahrain, with all cases being relatively unclear. unfortunately, there are restrictions on human rights and freedoms, which are contrary to our european values. the right to a fair trial, the right of access to a court of law, the right of defence and other rights must be respected at all times. activists and human rights defenders are an important component of any democracy and it is essential that they have a place in democracy. this resolution does not end it. we want to have an open dialogue with bahrain and we hope that we will succeed.
the question posed by the blue card. dear colleague, italy is one of the largest exporters of surveillance equipment to bahrain. you're currently in government. can you tell us what specific steps you've already taken to stop italy from exporting these tracking devices to bahrain? thank you for your specific answer.
mr president, we want to support the bahraini human rights defender nabil rajab today, first and foremost because we believe that freedom of expression is a fundamental human right and that its exercise contributes to the good functioning of society. nabil rajab is facing a total of seven years in prison today for expressing his views on twitter, including on saudi arabia's bombing of yemen, and thereby committing the crime of insulting a neighboring state under bahraini law. mr rajab's trial has been conducted in a manner that violates bahraini law on several occasions. but there is a chance that mr. rajab will be pardoned. we now call on bahrain to ensure that mr rajab is not subjected to any humiliating treatment, torture and that his trial meets international fair trial standards.
mr president, the rohingya are being persecuted and are suffering a severe humanitarian crisis, and children are the most vulnerable. unicef states that 720 000 rohingya children need assistance and protection now. that is 720 000 children being denied a chance for a future: being subject to rape, violence and trauma, being orphaned, being trafficked, being hungry, being denied an education, being forced to give birth to their rapists’ children, and without proper healthcare. these are children who have been suffering far too long and enduring beyond what anyone should have to endure in a lifetime. no child deserves this. it is the duty of the myanmar government and that of bangladesh to do everything they can to safeguard the rights of all children affected by the crisis and to guarantee their safety. the eu must continue working to stop the crisis and it must look into other measures if myanmar refuses to uphold the rights of the rohingya.
madam president, i have supported the cult report on my own initiative and i thank my colleague mr zdrojewski for the excellent way in which he has presented it. the starting point is the universal declaration of human rights, which contains the right to access culture, and i consider this an important value. the report rightly addresses the obstacles to greater access to culture, especially for disadvantaged groups. it also seeks solutions for culture in an age of increasing digitisation, for accessibility and quality. a special area is devoted to the financing of culture, which is primarily the responsibility of the member states. but the eu can help significantly with its funds and programmes. we will soon be discussing the creative europe programme for the next financial period until 2027. the commission proposes to increase the budget for this programme to eur 1.85 billion over seven years. i think we need to support this raise. the creative industries in europe are very strong and represent a great deal of employment and growth for europe.
madam president, i voted in favour of the agreement reached at the trilogue on the draft directive on the adequacy test before the adoption of new legislation on professions. a common framework for assessing proportionality will increase the transparency and predictability of national regulation. at the same time, the quality and safety standard for the performance of specific professions must remain guaranteed. more transparent rules will then facilitate eu citizens' ability to practise a regulated profession in another member state. the framework for the implementation of the proportionality test will thus be clearly defined, while avoiding excessive procedural complexity and unnecessary administrative burden. i therefore consider it appropriate that member states should have a certain margin of discretion in assessing whether it is appropriate to consult stakeholders before introducing new rules.
madam president, this year marks the 10th anniversary of russia's invasion of georgia and its ongoing occupation of the georgian regions of abkhazia and south ossetia. we've had a very detailed discussion about this. i have supported and signed this resolution and i call for support for georgia and its sovereignty. i also call on the politicians of the eu countries to support the boycott of the world cup in russia, which starts today, by politicians, it is very symbolic. of course, neither the athletes nor the fans can blame the organization for the bad decisions. let's remember that it was less than two weeks after the sochi olympics ended that russia invaded crimea. we can ask ourselves what will follow after the championship is over.
in writing. i welcome the european defence industrial development programme it was also time to finally start doing something about european defence too. citizens across countries are calling for more effective eu defence and are highly sensitive to russia's assertive policy but also to the decreasing predictability of us behaviour. i am convinced that tomorrow we will adopt a programme that will actively move us towards european strategic autonomy, but which will also boost the european defence industry. i welcome the fact that the programme will actively support small and medium-sized enterprises, but also mid-caps. the edidp is the model for the future european defence fund. i would like to express my hope that the european defence fund will also be designed to support european companies in particular and thus contribute to strengthening europe's strategic autonomy.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the members of this parliament for their reactions. this proposal will allow us to satisfy new and emerging data needs better, more flexibly and faster. it will bring more comparability and more coherence in statistics on the structure of eu agriculture, and it will ensure that the costs and the burden of data collection for producers and providers will be reduced. that is why the commission is pleased with the compromise you reached. congratulations again to madam rapporteur and all those who worked very hard on this, and for tomorrow i hope that parliament will be able to support it in the vote.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 3 july 2018.
the next item is the report by francisco assis, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on violation of the rights of indigenous peoples in the world, including land grabbing (2017/2206(ini)) (a8—0194/2018).
madam president, to date, more than 750 million women have been married before the age of 18, and 250 million of them were married before the age of 15. these are truly frightening numbers that demonstrate serious human rights violations. the problem is that a legal ban on child, early, and forced marriage would not in itself guarantee an end to such marriages. the widest possible international cooperation is needed to see an end to this shameful practice. the eu should now push for the establishment of a clear legal age of 18 as a uniform minimum age for marriage in both the eu member states and third countries. i believe it is the duty of the european union to condemn these marriages in the strongest possible terms and to act with utmost resilience in this regard, both within the eu and internationally. we in the european union have enough instruments to influence third countries, so let us do the same in this matter.
madam chair, i think we all see forced marriage as a violation of human rights and human dignity. we are hearing about the rise of forced marriages, especially in countries where there is now war and humanitarian crisis. for example, we know that in syria before the war, there were about 13 percent of these marriages, and recently, that percentage has risen to 40 percent. what's the reason? forced marriages are caused by both a long tradition, partly religious, and by living conditions. parents see the marriage of their children, especially daughters, as a solution to difficult social conditions or a way to protect them from even worse forms of violence. for many girls, this means dropping out of school, domestic violence, mental problems, and other complications, such as childbirth. however, customs and circumstances can be stronger than the law, and even where such marriages were forbidden by law, their number has decreased only minimally. that means more education and better living conditions are the answer.
the european union has always been a major player in the development of cities, and the european union has always been a major player in the development of cities. our democracy was born in the greek polis. even now, cities are the main hubs of population growth. we know that 70% of the population of the european union lives there today, and that trend is growing. i'm more of a proponent of not urbanizing so fast and not depopulating the countryside. but the reality is just relentless. the growth of cities and their agglomeration places new demands on them, on their infrastructure, on their spatial planning, and it is therefore good that we are also looking at the role of cities in the institutional framework at european union level. i support greater involvement of city representatives in consultation on measures and legislation, both through the committee of the regions and through informal opportunities.
madam chair, 3d printing has great potential to achieve a whole range of socially beneficial goals. in particular, it allows the concentration of production, thereby shortening the production process and reducing transport and storage costs. all of this is, of course, ecological. for decades, this method was reserved for certain sectors of industry. however, in recent years it has become increasingly accessible to other sectors and consumers. for example, in the event of damage to a product, it allows the consumer to make a replacement part instead of buying a new product. this is of course useful in the context of environmental protection, but it has its risks, and the rapporteur has mentioned some of them. as a member of the committee on culture and education, i consider the risk of infringement of the rights of authors to be a problem. as market developments and demand suggest that 3d printing will become even more accessible and the risk of misuse will therefore continue to increase, i welcome the suggestion that the commission consider the possibility of adopting specific regulation of some aspects of this technology.
mr. chairman, i would like to express my concern about a new form of organized crime that threatens our security and complicates our handling of the migration crisis. it's a trade in stolen identity papers that helps illegal migrants get into the european union. these people, having acquired real passports, can very easily evade border controls, immigration regulations and visa requirements. according to europol, more than 200,000 people crossed european borders in this way last year. security experts warn that these practices are the cause of uncontrolled infiltration of criminals and terrorists into the european union. smugglers of migrants are getting more and more organized. they create sophisticated solutions and professional networks and also operate transnationally, making the security threat to the european union ever stronger. i therefore call on the european commission to address this issue and to come up with effective solutions.
mr president, i would like to focus on cohesion policy for a moment. unfortunately, it is to be weakened considerably in the coming period, by at least 10% of its resources. cohesion policy is indeed crucial for the future of europe, it removes disadvantages, builds on cohesion, helps the development of weaker regions. without cohesion policy, many regions would be fundamentally weakened. the scissors between them would have developed much more than they do now. cohesion policy is for me an expression of europeanism and solidarity. i consider the weakening of the impact and character of cohesion policy to be extremely dangerous for our future. i would like to discuss the type of cohesion policy we want, the type of cohesion policy our citizens want, but i do not think it is possible to weaken cohesion policy without also affecting our future.
in writing. as the social democrats' rapporteur on the european accessibility act, let me thank your presidency for the efforts bulgaria has made in discussing this important legislative proposal. although the positions of the member states and the european parliament on a number of issues are unfortunately still very different after six months of intensive negotiations, the issue of accessibility has remained high on the political agenda thanks to your efforts. i also appreciate that bulgaria is not among the many countries that have recently made it clear that they are not prepared to change their position in any way on the substantial reduction of the scope of the directive that is being requested and that they have not, for reasons of substance or procedure, wanted to continue negotiating the final form of this key piece of legislation. six months ago, i expressed my wish that the two institutions would be interested in adopting a text that would substantially improve the quality of life not only of people with disabilities but also of older citizens, for example, and contribute to their full participation in society. i hope that, on the basis of your contribution, the austrian presidency will return to the negotiating table as soon as possible, so that the european accessibility act does not remain a promise unfulfilled after many years of waiting. the european parliament is ready to help.
madam president, mr chancellor, the austrian presidency has to face up to some of the huge stones that the european union has been pushing in front of it for years. the biggest one, of course, is migration. the council's findings have generated many ideas, but a clear solution is still out of sight. moreover, angela merkel has not calmed the csu to the extent she hoped, which will cause nervousness in the rest of the european union. the european union now has to find a way to deal with mass migration not only within schengen but also across the eu's external borders. the debate on brexit and the future of the uk's relationship with the european union will also reach its climax. because brexit is very simple on the one hand, but it has some very important questions. and as with him more than ever, until everything is agreed, nothing is agreed. the negotiations on the union's multiannual financial framework will again take a lot of energy from the austrian presidency, as they will certainly be very intense and will show the many different interests in the european union. our new czech government here will also have the task of fighting for czech interests as much as possible, since it must fight for the interests of czech municipalities and regions. and the upcoming european elections will mean that many important documents will have to be resolved in the near future. documents that i'm working on, like the co2 emissions of cars or the hta project in healthcare, are things that we're waiting to see. and i trust you, mr. chancellor, that your presidency will see this through to the end. i wish you all the best and i hope everything works out as you planned.
madam president, mr. chancellor, i greatly appreciate your approach and your responsibility. a europe that protects is what our citizens expect from the european union. and of course solidarity between member states will only be possible if they know that the european union is well protected at its external schengen border. what struck me about your performance was your ambition to work with russia. i want to ask you: yes, let's cooperate, but we must insist on the conditions of compliance with the minsk agreements. we must insist that russia stop occupying crimea. i think the european union cannot recognize this occupation and work with russia without conditions. i'd like to appeal to you on this. in any case, i wish you a lot of strength and energy to achieve this goal, to make europe truly protective.
mr. chairman, i also supported this material. i think the role of cities in our future is extremely important. up to 80% of europe's population will be living in europe's largest cities within a few years. and this is a truly staggering challenge for the quality of life, the accessibility of infrastructure, the availability of adequate public services in these cities, the mastery of spatial planning and the overall sustainable development of cities and towns. this is indeed a very significant challenge for our future period. i would also like to mention the problem of the suburbanized areas, i.e. those areas which are adjacent to the largest cities in the form of agglomeration rings. and in these rings, there are really very fundamental themes for further development. i am glad that the report addresses these issues and i am glad that it has not avoided the very delicate issue of representation in the committee of the regions, where i firmly believe that there should be a change in representation in this consultative body in the coming period.
mr president, i also voted in favour of this report by mrs bergeron, who draws attention to the problem of 3d printing and calls on the commission to consider specific legislation on certain aspects. i think we all recognize that 3d printing is a great opportunity, it drives innovation, it makes manufacturing more efficient, so it's good for business and good for consumers, and it's also very good for the environment. but it does come with risks, especially in terms of security, intellectual property protection and legal liability. i therefore believe that it is necessary to consider whether it is possible to find common rules at european level in order to prevent the easy and impunity of counterfeiting of works of art and other works.
mr president, i will continue where my colleague, ms šojdová, left off. indeed, intellectual property protection is a certain notoriety that we have in our civilized circle. this means that not only do rights holders have their rights, which should be really unquestionable, but users also have not only rights, but of course, obligations. the right to access those works, to the simple settlement of those rights, the ease of access, the clarity of that editing. the new technologies that are ahead of us are really a huge challenge. it is an opportunity to innovate, to find far more efficient solutions in manufacturing or in the provision of services. 3d printing has been proven to be many times more environmentally friendly, which are all aspects that we really have to fight against, so to speak, but we have to respect what's at the top. and that is to protect the rights of those who have them, that is to say the rights holders.
mr president, i too have supported this report - that is, the legislative process has been completed at first reading - also because, firstly, i consider this initiative, this legislation, to be the right one. this rule of three companies, three states, i think is the sufficient answer to how to find resources, it really promotes competitiveness and innovation. of course, we have to bet on peace, but we also have to be prepared for the world around us. and hybrid warfare is a reality now. russia is waging a hybrid war on many fronts and we must be prepared to find new technological solutions and the european defence industry has been largely lagging behind. donald trump has made us look a little bit in the mirror and see that our picture is a little bit skewed, that we need to be better prepared, and i think that the more prepared you are, the less surprised you are. and that's what this fund is for.
mr president, i think it is very important that we address the situation of climate change and migration, and that is why i think this discussion made sense. i supported the part of the resolution that calls for action at the un level to provide a response to the migration of people who are expecting, who are leaving areas that are severely affected by climate change, and there is a need to respond in the places, in the regions where these changes are occurring, or to help and to address the situation there. i cannot agree with the challenge to change and redefine the term climate refugee in order to provide an international legal framework and protection. i don't think it's the solution to give the same international protection to refugees who leave climate change-affected areas as those who flee war and persecution.
the question posed by the blue card. madam president, you are calling on the council to act and to vote on the asylum directive by qualified majority. i would like to point out that the asylum directive interferes with the right of member states to decide on the admission of asylum seekers, and that is also a matter of security. do you really think that's necessary? that you will not one day want the member states to have more autonomy in this matter, more power to decide?
madam president, i did not want to talk about migration, but i must. at a time when, due to several measures, the number of migrants arriving in the eu is a small fraction of the numbers of just a few years ago, we are facing a severe political crisis associated with migration, and this is despite the fact that i guess everyone knows that there is nothing like a national solution for migration. let me call on council members to work on a common functional and effective solution and not allow this crisis to get out of control. at the end of the day, i guess the summit was more a success than a disaster, but only by a very small margin. other topics of the summit, like promotion of security and defence, or economic issues, including trade, illustrate how substantial added value could be a function of the european union for our citizens, the global economy and the world. i believe that we should not forget about it and we should not put it at risk.
madam president, i want to thank president tusk for the conclusions of this summit, and i think they have one flaw, they are late. we have, in the meantime, wasted a long time debating and pushing for mandatory quotas, which do not work and which in some countries have caused great harm to those who are pro-european but who want a reasonable asylum policy. the summit confirmed that the absolute priority is to protect the external borders and strengthen the coast guard. all vessels operating in the mediterranean must comply with the applicable laws and must not impede the operations of the libyan coast guard. i think that's a clear message to humanitarian organizations, who sometimes, under the guise of humanity, help the smuggling business. and we don't want that. i therefore welcome very much the realistic approach adopted by the council, which is in the interests of preserving european unity.
rapporteur of the committee on employment and social affairs. mr president, i have observed with great regret for some time now that the debate on the mobility package has turned into a pure ideological battle, and unfortunately in the empl committee even more so than elsewhere. but few realize that there's more to the game than just drivers and haulers. populist solutions threaten the eu's founding principles, our common market and our common future. we will not prevent fraud in the international road transport market by applying the same rules that have been tailored for the construction industry. not only is this unfeasible in practice, but it will also cause enormous damage to the internal market and endanger transport services. the biggest problems in transportation, which relate to cabotage, nomadic drivers, letter-box companies and enforcement of rules, have been captured by the transportation committee. unlike the committee on employment and social affairs, the commission has managed to find a solution that ensures a sufficient balance. i therefore call on all to refrain from supporting politicization and non-compliance with pre-negotiated agreements. will you support the tran committee's qualified balanced proposal or will you support the building of more barriers? it's up to you.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i will not speak as shadow to one of the files. i will speak primarily as a coordinator – as someone that was present in the majority of the debates, in a number of the agreements, a number of the deals. this is not the time to put in danger social rights. this is not the time to put at risk businesses, including small businesses. this is not the time to put at risk the internal market, and therefore growth and jobs, but many of the amendments are doing exactly that. i think that we should take that into account. we should provide support to the committee on transport (tran) arrangements, because this did form a complex solution. ms van brempt, you have referred to your colleague mr ismail ertug. he will tell you that if it were not for me, we would have never had the agreement on cabotage. but at the same time, we have made it clear that this is linked to posting, so that we don’t establish obstacles to the functioning of the internal market. how do we want to calculate – i mean, in terms of hours – the salary if a truck crosses the border of three countries in five or seven hours? impossible. so let’s give it a chance. we’ve got a good deal. we’ve got a compromise. let’s support it. that’s the only way if we don’t want to endanger social rights, businesses and the internal market.
mr president, commissioner, the free movement of goods is one of the fundamental freedoms of the european union, and to achieve this europe needs international road transport. we need to move forward in liberalizing it and modernizing the rules. it is therefore a great pity that the rapporteurs at the last plenary session were not given a mandate. the compromise approved by the committee on transport and tourism was balanced and, above all, respected the fact that this sector is specific and needs and requires special rules, special legislation. in other words, the general rules on posting of workers should not apply fully to transit and international road transport.
mr. chairman, i very much appreciate the tran committee's compromise proposal and i urge you to support it. i consider it to be very balanced, both in terms of social protection for drivers and in terms of preserving the free movement of services. this compromise improves the social protection of drivers in many ways, for example, after a week's work drivers are entitled to rest outside the cabin and will only be able to spend it exceptionally in the cabin if the parking area is adequately equipped. it's not just about comfort, it's also about road safety. the transparency and enforceability of those new rules should be ensured by accelerating the mandatory use of smart tachographs from 2022. ladies and gentlemen, the exemption of the transport sector from the posting of workers directive is a fundamental change to prevent the creation of new administrative barriers. and if we are really concerned about building the free movement of services and workers, then we should support this compromise.
madam president, the situation in venezuela is intolerable. it is a tragedy to see how what was once a refuge for those fleeing repression is now a country from which thousands of people are fleeing. but even more tragic is the thought that the crisis could have been avoided altogether. maduro has done nothing to solve it or alleviate it. we can't just sit around waiting for maduro to do something while people continue to suffer. the european union must take action now to address the humanitarian crisis, but this, in itself, will not solve the crisis in the long term. there must be an end to dictatorship and a return to democracy. i would again ask the council to extend the list of sanctioned persons to include their relatives and i would ask it to start exploring additional measures such as an oil embargo.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, since the last major ebola outbreak in west africa in 2014, we have had an epidemic of zika and a few other less serious outbreaks. it seemed that the current situation in the congo was nothing compared to what we experienced at the beginning of the mandate. and i am glad that both international organisations and the european union have learned from the experience. so far, both the number of infected and the number of dead are in the tens, and the disease is being kept within a single state. last time we were moving in thousands, and europe was in danger. i very much welcome the who's decision to provide the country with a new experimental vaccine. the european commission has also adopted an emergency humanitarian aid package, the european medical corps is ready to help on the ground and the ecdc is monitoring the situation and providing updates on the situation to all relevant authorities. of course, there's still a risk of transmission to other states, but let's trust our defense mechanisms. we've learned from them, we've adjusted them, and i firmly believe that after all the previous crises, this is not going to evolve into the next crisis.
madam president, it is true that ebola poses a risk to our future. i think we have an obligation to underestimate this risk and to behave responsibly. helping means working to prevent, but also being humanitarian. so i think there's about two basic assumptions that we should be guided by. however, this particular aid project can have its other side effects, such as strengthening educational capacity, the space is constantly full of superstition, such as the belief that if the body is burned, the soul of the deceased can no longer rest. there's just a whole bunch of concerns that we have to support with this education as well, and i think that's one of those other side effects that we have to address at the expense of or in an effort to prevent. but we must not forget the political problems that the country is going through. and to turn a blind eye to the concrete human rights violations committed by the regime there. i think we should address that as well.
mr president, always helping illegal entry or committing any crime increases the chances of not solving the migration crisis and i think there have been a number of arguments that show that we need to appreciate those non-profit organisations that are actually helping, but on the other hand we need to tell those who are only serving to transport economic migrants that this is not how they will do their business. this is not about criminalizing humanitarian aid, on the contrary, we are happy for every volunteer, for every person in the nonprofit sector who does their job for a good cause. on the other hand, we must say that many non-profit organisations or people who claim to be non-profit organisations are violating european union law and the laws of the member states in their activities, and we must start to punish these organisations severely. i can't imagine this activity going on any longer. what bothers the european union today, and many of its citizens, and why they are skeptical of it, is precisely this lack of respect for the law. and the double standard within the entire european union. finally, i would like to stress to my green colleagues here that i cannot understand how a politician can board a ship and bring it to port, even though he knows that the ship is breaking the law. i personally won't do it.
mr. chairman, i'm a little deaf from the previous colleague's speech. i stand by the fact that helping people is truly an expression of humanity. after all, history is all about helping people. many nameless heroes have indeed helped and have an important place in history. on the other hand, it's important that the rules are followed, and i'm not sure that we can distinguish very easily between who is a smuggler and actually illegally breaking the rules and who is actually helping by saving people on the high seas. they too are responsible for plunging into the open sea and putting themselves in some danger. i'll venture to say that the cab driver is not the savior. and this is where we should probably draw the dividing line. if someone decides to take people on board even against the rules of libya or possibly international law, then they are also exposing themselves to some danger.
mr president, i believe that we should really help in this particular case, which i think is not that complicated. this is the definition of a small and medium-sized enterprise. the real strength of the economy is seen in the strength of smes. the commissioner has, moreover, given some rather convincing figures on the european strength of these companies. mr pieper said that what was expected was a legal framework to protect these businesses and to bring tax justice. i agree with these theses, although with the second, that is, with tax justice, i think that this is primarily the responsibility of the member states. we must alleviate the administrative burden on businesses of this type, and let us admit that we are also raising these demands from the highest european level. so, yes, we will relieve them of their administrative burdens and of course prepare them for the new period, or rather, we will not put obstacles in the way of the new period that awaits them.
mr president, i welcome the eu-armenia partnership agreement, which is a very important step forward in the process of negotiating the agreement. i also greatly appreciate the wisdom of the armenians, who were able to achieve this year's bloodless transfer of power. some have even called the overthrow of prime minister sargsyan an armenian velvet revolution. let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the velvet revolution is a czechoslovak invention. in 1989, we overthrew the totalitarian rule in our country peacefully. but i would like to point out the tricks of the admired velvet. the ostensibly deposed communists are trying to regain power in my country after 30 years. i understand the difficult geopolitical position of armenia. i also see the path taken by the new prime minister, nikol pashinyan. i wouldn't want him to see the return of those ex-cons after 30 years in his country.
mr president, as my predecessor mr štětina mentioned here, armenia has recently undergone the so-called velvet revolution and he reminded us that it is a czechoslovak invention and we also wish armenia that this development would be more positive than what we are currently experiencing in the czech republic. i also welcome the agreement between the european union and armenia to help armenia to stabilise and develop democracy, because in armenia everything is not yet perfect and it faces great problems. apart from the conflict with azerbaijan, it is mainly corruption. the eu has also been active in the fight against corruption, and has been involved in the implementation of the eu-armenia association agreement. the european union therefore encourages and will help armenia in this.
mr president, early and forced marriages are a violation of human dignity and the right to freely choose one's marriage after reaching the age of majority. it's certainly a result of tradition, of a certain culture, but also of a social situation. the response to these practices, which we cannot agree with, is first and foremost education, a change in the whole of society's approach to human rights, to human dignity. the european union can help by providing support, by educating these countries, and of course by enforcing the right legislation, laws and international law. but i must point out that even in the countries that have accepted the istanbul convention, that have ratified it, this right is not respected, so the istanbul convention is not a solution that could correct this unacceptable practice.
mr president, the creation of a european equivalent of the american esta system is certainly important and desirable from my point of view. there is no such system at european level yet, and that's a shame, because esta is proof that it adds value and speeds up those applications to enter the us. i am in favour of the etias system and support the solution proposed by mrs gálová, as it is part of the european strategy on security and consequently also on migration, as the commissioner has mentioned. in the light of security, migration and visa policy, this system is really needed and, given that it will be possible to link it in the future with other systems such as the visa and information system or the entry/exit system or the international police database, it is certainly important not only for travel but is absolutely crucial in terms of security. for these reasons, mr president, i want this draft regulation and its subsequent implementation to be discussed as soon as possible. it is also important that the technical requirements for this system are discussed and that this system is put into operation as soon as possible. i also support the €7 fee and i really laugh at all the critics of it. i think that fee will go towards the development of the system and increase its better development and implementation. i think that the etias system is a very good and sustainable tool and i think, commissioner, that the sooner this system and this regulation are implemented, the better.
mr president, commissioner, rapporteur, i would like to thank you for presenting this report. i think it's a fairly balanced material, where, of course, one or the other priority can be taken more into account. however, as a whole, i see this material as a good basis for today's discussion, and i think it shows in detail that this discussion is going in the right direction. i personally have security as my top priority and i think there's a lot more to be said about security. commissioner, i told you that at the committee. now, there's a greater need to focus on the radicalization of youth, the problems of terrorism, the problems of funding some of the security measures that need to be done. there is a need to digitise some entities or to strengthen some of the european union agencies. everyone says we need to secure the external borders. but what is "securing the external borders"? it's more investment in digitization, it's not about putting more people there. today we have all kinds of means to stop these people at the border and it doesn't have to be a dog or a man with a machine gun, as we know it from the communist times. europol, eurojust and other agencies also need to be strengthened. the fra, which deals with human rights, and the asylum, migration and integration fund need to be strengthened to make the reception of asylum seekers more efficient and perhaps to prevent the coalition from breaking up in germany. the last thing i wanted to mention, commissioner, was the reaction to a colleague from the enf who said that we were wasting the budget. commissioner, neither you nor i nor my colleague viotti bought champagne here. and i think the enf is the last person here to advise us on how we should draw on and manage the eu budget.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank you for the very good material and the very good document on which it is possible to have a fairly good debate. i think that the issue of the establishment and implementation of the budget of the european union is one of the most important issues that we have to solve in the structural reform of the european union. but there are still some budgetary problems. we are running surpluses, and the areas financed by the european union are changing, and we have to respond to this when we draw up the budget. i welcome the simplification and flexibility of the budget. i think that is the right way to go, but it is also very important that european funds are used effectively. the current set of rules, both on the drawdown of funding and on the ex post controls, needs to be revised. as a member of the budget control committee, i could tell you about it. in the long term, the under-utilisation of european funds is also a huge problem. the eu's helping hands are thus underused by the entities. this is due to the current complex and sometimes lengthy process of raising funds and administrative burdens. i therefore welcome the simplification of the rules for beneficiaries of eu funds. but simplified management must not lead to inefficiency. the rules must then be implemented responsibly and monitored and controlled to prevent circumvention. and if that happens, there must be severe sanctions. then we have to focus on the outcomes, whether there is really an improvement. my only concern is that simplification will lead to abuse.
in writing. it is strange, but the proposal deals with the problems of supplementing the relevant committees and commissions on the us side in a significant part of the text. the fact that the us side has somewhat underestimated the eu-us cooperation on privacy protection is clear from this. in practice, our partners across the grand lagoon have always taken unilateral action first and only then bilateral negotiations. the classic case is data on passengers in air transport between the eu and the us. another interesting fact is the lax approach of congress, which, among other things, rejected the federal commission's proposal on the protection of consumers of broadband and other telecommunications services. in the wake of the facebook data-sharing scandal involving up to 60 different companies, similar actions are being taken in the eu with little understanding. incidentally, facebook was found to have provided the personal data of more than 2 million eu citizens for commercial use. a number of servers used for, inter alia, broadband and other telecommunications services are located in the usa. the commission has also concluded that the us privacy shield is not a violation of the eu privacy shield. the conclusion is clear from the above, and i fully support the motion for a resolution.
madam president, commissioner, we often complain about the low turnout and the lack of interest in the elections. there are citizens who would love to come to the polls to express their opinion, but for various reasons they cannot. they're people with disabilities. there are 80 million disabled citizens in the european union, yet they are hardly represented in public life and are not given much thought in the programmes of political parties. however, it is not enough to ensure that polling stations are accessible to enable them to participate fully in the elections. having sufficient information is also essential for making a responsible choice. however, unfortunately, political party materials and programmes are often not available in formats that can be read by people with disabilities, which limits not only their right to vote but also their ability to participate actively in political life. the right to vote is as important for people with disabilities as for everyone else, and we should therefore work to ensure that they are not second-class citizens in the next european parliament elections, or any other.
madam president, commissioner, i am sure we can all agree that the right to vote and stand as a candidate for persons with disabilities is guaranteed by many international conventions, and article 29 of the un convention has been cited. we also no doubt agree, as the debate has shown, that the member states should first of all take measures to make it easier for all disabled people to exercise their political rights at a level that is, let us say, adequate to guarantee the accessibility of that right. this is mainly about the adjustment of the electoral procedures, it is about the availability of the voting room. and of course, the availability of materials related to the exercise of this right to vote in relation to national elections, but also to the european parliament elections. the key word is barrier-free. so we've already talked about voting booths that should be accessible to all people with disabilities, of course. the electoral procedures, including remote voting, should also be accessible and fully understandable to persons with disabilities. then there are measures concerning member states and political parties. the availability of pre-election materials in sign language, in those other tools that simply make it easier for these people to access these materials, is, i think, very important and has been mentioned here as well. election debates should also be interpreted in this way for people with disabilities. there was already talk of equal quotas, and i would like to say that too. i am not in favour of quotas, but it is clear that member states should encourage political parties to nominate candidates in their territory to include women candidates in their list of candidates.
mr president, as a member of the european parliament, i would like to underline that the courts’ decision to annul the results of the mayoral elections in the city of chișinău bear all the signs of political motivation. if that is true, this would be an alarming indication that the state of democracy in moldova is weakening. it may jeopardise the country’s ambitions for further integration with the european union. the massive protests against nullification of the election results show how deeply moldova’s citizens are afraid for its future. this sentiment has been strengthened by widespread corruption and lack of implementation of much-needed reforms. it is high time to consider personal accountability of moldova’s officials. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
answer the question by raising the blue card. thank you, cristian, for asking that question. it's not a coincidence, it's a general trend. take the oligarchy in russia, take the oligarchy in georgia, take the oligarchy in moldova, and it's all caused by that imperialist policy that the fellow on my left was talking about a moment ago. i think it's just part of the general development in the post-soviet space.
mr president, if the elections are to be annulled, it can only be done on the basis of very strong arguments and we must say that the decision of the chisinau court is completely flat in terms of argument. however, the situation in moldova is extremely worrying in the long term. moldova is a beautiful country, there are very kind people living there, and then there are a few oligarchs whose names are repeated over and over again and who are associated with rampant theft. i think that the support of the european union is kind of getting lost and not getting to the citizens. and the citizens of moldova deserve our support, because i feel that they share our values, the values of the european union. can we keep quiet today? well, we certainly can't be silent, because we are citizens of moldova. and that's our main advantage over the oligarchs who aren't with them. so please let's help the people of moldova. let's find ways to bypass the oligarchs and support moldova as such.
author. – mr president, i want to congratulate somalia on its 58th year of independence earlier this week. however, i would have hoped for it to have taken place under brighter conditions. the security situation remains precarious. more than two million people remain internally displaced. the country is on the brink of another famine. al-shabaab is a lesser threat than before, but it is nevertheless still present and is forcibly recruiting children. and despite a new government taking power last year, we have been seeing it gradually take a more autocratic approach with the arbitrary arrests, attacks on journalists, threats and intimidation of trade unions. this is just naming a few of the many serious problems that somalia faces today. after decades of conflict, we cannot risk seeing somalia turn into a failed state or fall into the hands of terrorists. somalians deserve a better future, and the eu must continue supporting somalia in any way it can.
author. – mr president, i would like to express my gratitude to all those who pay attention to the situation in somalia. this is a typical frozen military conflict. i would like to remember the suffering of millions of people, especially children. somalia is a country that has been at the top of the fragile states index for the past ten years. the fragility of this country’s alarming state of human rights is not ignored by the eu: the eu has provided eur 486 million through the european development fund, focusing on peace-building, food security and education. therefore, we need to express our support for such stabilising initiatives and call on local governmental authorities to undertake the appropriate steps in order to mitigate the situation. this country experiences awful terrorism, higher rates of corruption, misusing children as soldiers, extreme poverty, child malnutrition and political instability. we must make sure that a mission funded by the eu implements its mandate fully in order to protect civilians. so i ask you, madam high representative, to ensure that the international humanitarian response plan for somalia is fully developed. i am convinced that this resolution outlines a possible solution to somalia’s desperate situation. i hope it will be largely welcomed and supported.
for the ppe group. mr. chairman, somalia has experienced 20 years of civil war, human rights have virtually no standing here. there are many islamist terrorist attacks in the country. the largest of these, in october 2017, killed at least 512 people. transparency international ranks somalia as the most corrupt country in the world. the international federation of journalists considers somalia the most dangerous country in the world. the military courts often try cases here, and often use the death penalty. somalia is consistently ranked third in the world in persecution of christians. the archbishop of mogadishu has declared that it is not possible to be a christian in somalia. 1 200 000 children are malnourished. drought and subsequent flooding forced 230,000 people to flee their homes. this, unfortunately, is a near-perfect catalogue of the causes of migration from the african continent. to help eliminate these causes, the european union must help to bring the basic functions of the somali state into play, to lay the foundations for a renewed somali civil society. that should be the aim of the european union.
mr president, i consider it extremely unfortunate that, in the background of the discussion of human rights violations in selected countries, or of certain cases, there is a national debate. that is extremely unfortunate, indeed embarrassing, and i thank the president for having closed the debate. the polish debate on this point and the previous one is not really a sensible one. as for somalia, it is a country of long-standing conflicts that have affected civilians. we talk about kidnappings, massacres, civil rights as if they don't exist, but instead, impunity, zero rule of law and, of course, no human rights. this is extremely reprehensible and i want to express my condolences to the millions of victims of these conflicts and i would like to support high representative mogherini to negotiate with the somali government and try to protect at least the civilian population.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr pimenta, for his excellent report, and also for the work he has done in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. however, the situation in burundi is so serious that we have to address the whole country. we are witnessing a huge political, human rights and humanitarian crisis. the whole crisis has escalated into a huge riot, resulting in hundreds of victims, hundreds of thousands of refugees, hundreds of forcibly displaced people. and the thousands of people who today bear the fate of this bloody conflict. in addition to civilians, journalists, activists, political opponents who draw attention to the practices of the current government and the consolidation of power and intimidation are systematically attacked. that's why i'm asking you, mrs. mogherini, to pay close attention to this situation.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, burundians are living in a state of fear. security forces and youth party members have been killing, raping, abducting, torturing and intimidating anyone they believe to be opponents. while the president has finally stated that he will not run for another term, what happened in the run-up to this referendum cannot be forgotten. a government that allows these atrocities to be committed, against real or perceived opponents, has no legitimacy to represent the citizens. a referendum that takes place in such conditions cannot be considered to represent the will of the people. if the government is truly to show good intentions, it must resume cooperation, in full, with the un commission of inquiry and allow for an independent investigation into all the abuses committed. talks must be resumed between the opposition and government as a matter of urgency, and the eu should actively support this.
ladies and gentlemen, if i may ask you kindly to take your seats, we will proceed with the votes. before i do so – and i would appreciate a second of silence – today is ellen heinemann’s last day. she has been working for parliament, including serving this plenary, for the last 25 years, mostly working on the minutes and making sure that the texts adopted are correctly published. i must say that she is one of those persons who are not necessarily visible but without whom we would hardly be able to conduct our work. (applause)so warm thanks, on my behalf and of course – as i am sure you can hear the applause – also from other colleagues.
the next item is the vote.
mr president, on behalf of the epp group, i suggest an oral amendment to paragraph 10. at the end we would add the following ‘urges amisom to fully implement their mandate to protect the civilian population’.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we are going to approve a new european programme for young people, with a significant budget and impact as has been mentioned: eur 375 600 000 over three years, targeting 100 000 young people. it is a huge programme and i am glad to confirm that the epp group will support the trilogue agreement to be voted on tomorrow. more opportunities for youth volunteer activities will be available in europe, as well as new internships and jobs in the solidarity sector. the key principles in this context are the european added value of the activities; no overlapping with national schemes; and the principle of non-profitability. we managed to strike a good deal with the council in the middle of the financial framework. this was difficult as we had to find the necessary resources without harming existing programmes, in particular erasmus +. we have achieved this outcome only because, as representatives of the political groups, we stood united with our rapporteur, helga trüpel. there was a consensus among us on other issues, such as the emphasis on continuity with the european voluntary service and the perception of volunteering as a key part of the programme. that is why i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur for their excellent cooperation. i look forward to cooperating with our colleagues and with the commissioner on the next programme.
mr president, i too would like to thank mr vaughan for his report, which is really timely and, in my opinion, of very high quality. the importance of european funds is indeed particularly evident in crossborder cooperation and crossborder programmes. cohesion policy is meant to remove certain disadvantages, i believe it is also meant to heal old wounds, to prevent new conflicts from arising, and to reconcile communities. in northern ireland we have seen real change in both the economy and social cohesion and i think that change has been positive and it would be good to keep that outcome. i was very pleased to hear from the commissioner that the peace+ programme in the new programming period should include the border areas themselves, which i think is very good. the commissioner has done a great deal, and i would like to commend her for this, and there should be a place for crossborder funds in the new programming period, because these programmes are intended to show us how to build crossborder cooperation, which i think is particularly important for the balkans.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking my colleague mr arimont not only for this report but also for the work he has done as our rapporteur for greece. i have great respect for his work. i have to ask, what does it mean when you give someone 100% of the grant? i think that this is really an expression of the highest degree of cohesion, a certain solidarity and belonging that we have shown with the greek people. it is actually a full payment and there is no doubt, as mrs spyraki has pointed out, that this money has helped to grow the greek economy, that is absolutely unquestionable, we are seeing the results today. and if you can't see them, i think you're blind. employment: that money helped develop infrastructure, helped specific businesses. i think this was an example of effective aid which, i do not know to what extent, was and can be repeated, but i think it was an expression of genuine european solidarity.
mr. chairman, i would like to express my solidarity with the disabled, the victims and the survivors. i am also not happy that this debate, which should have been a european debate, has become a rather national debate, and i would like to take part in it from a european point of view. if you find yourself as a citizen in such a difficult, perplexing situation, what do you expect from your state? of course, you expect help from the union, which is supposed to declare a certain unity, a certain help and solidarity of these states. i am convinced that the aid must arrive, of course, quickly and efficiently. we have a specific fund here, the solidarity fund, that provides this aid. the fund was also modified by the regi committee, which set the conditions during this parliamentary term so that the aid was really effective. i would like to join in this call: "he who gives quickly gives twice as much", says a proverb. let us be really effective at the european level, let us help with prevention, let us have a sufficient allocation in this fund. but i don't think this politicization on a national level belongs here.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank our colleague mrs zhitnyansky for the very comprehensive report she has presented. it is clear that returning to work is in the best interests of both the individual and society. work has a positive effect on the psyche of a sick person and can even strengthen him, allowing him to recover. it also allows a person to reintegrate into society, to make a living, to feel important, to feel needed in life, and of course, it also helps with rehabilitation. the possibility of using flexible forms of work, working from home, needs to be emphasised. i am pleased that this report focuses on these new forms of work which can be used to rehabilitate and facilitate the return to society and the integration of people with various disabilities. and i would also mention the inclusion of volunteering activities, because that's where these people can find very good employment. so thank you and i support this report.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank mrs zhitnyansky for her report on a very important and yet often taboo social issue, namely the return to work of people after long-term illness. the report points out that this issue has a wide relevance not only for the re-socialization of people with long-term illnesses, after accidents with lasting consequences, of workers with various types of disabilities, but also in view of the changing structure of the labour market with the ageing population. the report emphasises the need for individual approach and support of employees, but also for example adaptation of the working environment, removal of barriers. there's no reason to be angry with people for their injuries or long-term illnesses, whether it's because of physical or psychological barriers in their environment. it is also the responsibility of employers to their employees. thank you and congratulations again on this report.
mr president, i too would like to commend the report by mrs zhitnyansky and say that it is certainly right for this parliament to speak out against any form of discrimination, exclusion or stigmatisation of certain people. prevention and early intervention, that's one of the topics that the lady colleague brought up. there are a number of instruments which this report considers, and i am one of them. no doubt the adaptation of the workplace, it is one of the smallest measures than the worker so-called to condemn. i think there are a number of other measures, such as transferring to another workplace or, by agreement with the employee, assigning him to another type of work. this is particularly important for our elderly citizens and, of course, for citizens with problems such as mental health. and in the other set of tools that are listed under the 'return to work' chapter, i would really emphasise reintegration and the individual approach to every employee who is disadvantaged in this way.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i believe it is important that the humiliation of workers should not be tolerated in any way. various forms of bullying, mobbing, these also occur in employment within public administration or politics. and i am glad that the european parliament is trying to deal with the various cases that have occurred here. i would also like to thank our colleague, elisabeth morin-chartier, who has been very active in resolving these very unpleasant and sad cases. finally, in the czech republic, we had a minister who had to resign because of the humiliation of his employees, but it took a few months. i think it is important for society to remain sensitive to what it is to humiliate people, and here is the need for prevention, which was also mentioned by the preface anna záborská, i.e. education, ethical education, in short, to remain sensitive to these issues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the diversity of cultures and therefore of languages in europe is our great cultural value and wealth which we must preserve. as the use of digital technologies and digitalisation continues to accelerate, we also need to look at how access is provided in the 24 official languages of the european union, how it is used. and we have found that the official websites of the european union in some cases, in some programmes, are still not using the official languages sufficiently. i agree that english will undoubtedly become the main language of communication, but if we want to ensure that the languages of those smaller nations that are less used, say at the common european level, are supported, then we must ensure that they are also available on the websites of the european institutions.
mr president, i had the honour of drawing up the opinion of the envi committee on this report. and in that regard, i'd like to commend the work of all the shadow intelligence officers and the excellent cooperation with ms. hautala. i am very pleased that the european parliament is not afraid to speak out on deforestation, but it is high time that the commission acted. the commission had been waiting for a long time for independent studies that finally declared, unsurprisingly, that the eu was clearly part of the problem of global deforestation. dear commission, now that you finally know what you should have known a long time ago, please also know this: by the end of this commission's mandate, we expect to see an ambitious eu action plan on deforestation and forest degradation, with concrete regulatory measures. i know this is going to be hard, but it was you who wasted time while the rainforests disappeared or were burned because of the demand for biofuels in the european union.
mr president, europe is facing a migration crisis and we all bear the political consequences of this, which are reflected in the election results, as my predecessor mentioned, in sweden, but also in the unrest, for example, in saxony. apart from the migration from africa, it is mainly the regime of bashar assad that has driven 14 million people out of their homes in syria, of which more than 6 million outside syria, with the help of putin. now another attack is being prepared against the last rebel stronghold in idlib. so there's a risk of more civilian deaths. the international community should respond, and i wonder if it can prevent this evil. can we help those who suffer innocently? and these are mostly child victims of war, they're orphans. i really hope that we can do this and that the czech republic will be among those who help children without parents in europe.
mr. chairman, mr. prime minister, i have listened to your words very carefully. you said, i think very correctly, that you managed the crisis thanks to the greek people and the help of the european union. so i understand you agree that it was the financial aid and the pressure for reform that you had to put in place that helped greece to cope with this situation? am i getting this right? it's a question for you, and i expect an answer. and i want to say that i realize you've done a great job. at this moment, i want to thank first of all the people who are taking care of the refugees in the refugee camps, in the hotspots. they're doing a tremendous job. i personally visited the camps in athens and lesbos. mr. prime minister, i want to urge you to help the people who are organizing aid for the refugees, especially the island of lesbos is in crisis. the mayor of mytilini is doing a great job, you have the opportunity to help them. do it now.
mr president, i supported this proposal because i believe it is a true example of european solidarity. we approved the rules that allow, and have allowed, greece to pay back the full costs it had to finance european projects, and those projects have really helped. it was aid to specific businesses, to infrastructure, it was aid that increased the performance of the greek economy and increased employment. so i think this measure, which was extraordinary, i don't know if it's repeatable, but it was really extraordinary, it really helped the greek citizens. i am proud that we approved this measure very unanimously in our regi committee at the time. that is why i have supported this report, which assesses the impact of these measures, and i think that this is indeed a measure we have taken for the benefit of the greek people, of which we can be proud.
the next item is the report by axel voss, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on copyright in the digital single market (com(2016)0593 – c8—0383/2016 – 2016/0280(cod)) (a8-0245/2018).
colleagues, i think this is the appropriate moment to announce that, due to the fact that the previous debate lasted significantly longer, we are 25 minutes to half an hour behind schedule. for that reason, first of all, neither i nor my successor in the chair, mr wieland, will allow any blue cards or any catch—the-eye. secondly, i will have to ask you to respect the time slots and i will have to be very strict, as will mr wieland.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i consider the work on the draft copyright directive to be one of the most difficult and demanding of my entire career in the european parliament. there are too many conflicting interests and positions of different groups to find an acceptable compromise. i think we can all agree that copyright needs to be modernized to fit the current digital age. but what form it takes is another matter. the controversy of the subject is also evidenced by the fact that 166 amendments were submitted, not to mention the hundreds of e-mails we receive every day. but unlike the reporter, i don't think this is just a stinging campaign. we want good legislation, but we will not back down. i would like to take this opportunity to thank all the colleagues who have contributed to this difficult task. i think we've done a good job in some areas of the juri committee. however, our group still has a number of provisions in the draft directive which we cannot support. i hope you will support our amendments to article 4, which we want to ensure that even today educational institutions will be able to use digital materials, sample songs, to teach without having to sign a contract. i personally find the current wording of article 13 totally unacceptable. i know all the political factions are divided on this point, but i believe we are capable of reaching a compromise.
mr president, article 11 will cause the services we have been used to with search engines such as google and some others to be restricted. the citizens of the european union will be harmed. article 13 will cause our files, what our kids create, and what we create and put on the internet, to be censored by robots. robots will decide our freedoms, our property, things that normally only a court can decide. and it shows that the european union is not about people at all, it's not about what the citizens of the european states need. the european union wants to concentrate more and more power in brussels, and that's why we need to replace the european union with some alternative.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the european commission, a functioning copyright system is a prerequisite for ensuring the competitiveness of european creators on a global scale and for the distinctive character of european culture. but only copyright that reflects a properly defined public interest. and that public interest cannot be reduced to the interest of one particular group of future users of those rules. the public interest must be the result of a careful consideration of the requirements of all those who attach legitimate expectations to the existence of copyright, both authors and consumers. it is a primary consideration for my decision-making that the resulting text actually reflects the public interest and cannot be challenged for incompatibility with the charter of fundamental rights and freedoms, where intellectual property is listed as part of protected property. and i would also like to see the word censorship not used in this discussion to ensure the copyright purity of the use of copyrighted works. for those of us who have lived for decades in regimes of actual censorship, where content was excluded for its content and not because of the technical imperfections of existing instruments, it's a hard to swallow bite.
for the ppe group. mr. president, ms. mogherini, ladies and gentlemen, we are all following with great concern the escalating situation in libya. libyans deserve to live in peace and stability. this vision is slipping away from them, and we in the eu must make the most of all the tools available to help change this. while i have great respect for the work of the united nations in stabilizing the country, i personally believe that at this time, right now, there can be no insistence on a december election date. the political, institutional and organisational infrastructure is still lacking, but in particular the security conditions. i fear that elections under these circumstances would only lead to further escalation of violence. at the same time, libya needs a new impetus to resolve the crisis with stability and political transformation, a realistic plan. the libyans need our continued support, both political and humanitarian. and i would also like to thank you very much, mrs mogherini, for opening the eu's representation in tripoli itself, not in the distant tunisia.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, cash remains a predominant source of financing, including for terrorists and other criminal organisations in europe. the current rules on cash control need to be updated to address the new challenges. recent events have shown that terrorists have managed to find ways to circumvent the current rules on cash control. in particular, public authorities have noted that criminals have resorted to sending or receiving cash via post, or in a parcel, in order to escape the obligation to make a declaration under the current rules. moreover, french customs authorities found non-declared cash and gold worth eur 9.2 million in postal parcels and freight packages during an investigation at charles de gaulle airport in 2015. national authorities have also seen that certain precious high-value commodities, such as gold, are now being used to escape the obligation to declare, since gold is not considered as cash under existing rules. i believe this new regulation will target these loopholes by imposing a simple rule. if you plan to enter or leave the eu with eur 10 000 or more in cash, you must declare it to customs. as for cash sent by freight or post, the disclosure will have to be made. i was among those who believe that no differentiation should be made between accompanied and non-accompanied cash, and i was thus calling for a mandatory declaration for cash sent by freight or post. unfortunately, the commission was not convinced by this approach, nor were the other political groups. however, we all agreed to introduce this possibility in a review clause, and i hope the commission will conduct these assessments thoroughly and update us on the outcome. overall, i am satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations with the council. i encourage members to support this text and member states to implement these new rules quickly.
it is a pity that we cannot issue green cards in this house, otherwise i would have immediately joined my colleague in explaining that he will be able to continue to transfer money to the uk, but he will have to report it, fill in a simple form which may solve the problem that at present is that money is being transferred across borders in cash without any controls and is used to finance various activities linked to terrorism or illegal activity. yes, mr president, perhaps you should sit down with the victims of terrorist acts and explain to them how the terrorists got their hands on weapons or how they got their hands on explosives and how they paid for them. we are talking about the single market here, we are talking about the need to really fight against the different forms. it's not just money, it's been mentioned here, gold, but we can talk about other ways of financing today. this directive must not be stopped. i thank the reporters for their excellent work, but we also need to start looking at the issue of cryptocurrencies and the way in which the activities of various terrorist groups are financed.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, it was perhaps a rare situation when the commissioners played a power play, to use an ice hockey expression. but, more importantly, i believe that the text we agreed will complement another important directive we are working on, the fifth anti—money laundering directive, by introducing a strong and efficient criminal law instrument to tackle money laundering. the new rules, combined with other legislative instruments, will contribute to a cutting of the financial sources of criminals. the amount of money generated from criminal activity in the main illicit markets in the eu has been estimated at eur 110 billion per year, corresponding to 1% of eu gdp. for criminals to benefit fully from the proceeds of their crimes, these criminal proceeds need to be laundered and the number of money laundering cases in the eu has been growing, according to europol. in my capacity as chair of the special committee on financial crimes, tax evasion and tax avoidance, i can only recall here how important it is to agree on common minimal rules on the way member states criminalise money laundering. the investigation we conducted in parliament’s previous committee of inquiry on money laundering, tax avoidance and tax evasion clearly shows that differences in national legislation on money laundering are a major obstacle to cross-border cooperation and exchange of information. by harmonising the definition of what constitutes a criminal offence, we facilitate the possibility for financial intelligence units to exchange information regarding criminal investigation of money laundering or terrorist financing. i believe we did it right and i am convinced that the trilogue outcome will gain overwhelming support in the house.
madam chairman, in hockey terminology, i would say, commissioner, that you are already beginning to weaken, because you are no longer two, but one. but let's get down to something more serious. today marks the anniversary of the tragic attacks on the world trade center in new york city, which may have been the single greatest impetus to launch the war on terror. and we all know how huge a phenomenon terrorism is. these are multiple dimensions that cannot be contained in a single initiative. we must fight them systematically and make every effort to suppress any groups and to create terrorist acts. i therefore welcome the european commission's action plan, which has a head and a tail and at least seeks to limit its funding and thus try to prevent it from happening in the first place. but i am most pleased that parliament has succeeded in imposing sanctions on european funds in the trilogue. i welcome the operational provisions on the freezing and confiscation of proceeds of crime. and i also think that excluding these people from receiving public funds or eu funds, along with criminal and administrative fines, is a very good solution.
madam president, jobs and growth, this was the key slogan of the commission a few years ago and i wonder if all of us still remember that. the world has changed and sometimes it has changed for the better actually. despite, too, the unfortunate decision of the people of the united kingdom, the position of the european union in the world has strengthened significantly and now the european union represents the hopes and visions of hundreds of millions of people all around the world. but the successes of the past belong in the past; what counts is the future and the way that we will tackle the challenges and the problems of today will decide the future of our union, of our continent, and the list of these problems is demanding – migration, security, economic problems, foreign policy, tax issues and environment are among those on the list – but we shouldn’t forget, and this is what mr juncker has said, that unity, cooperation and solidarity is what we are decided on to succeed and we shouldn’t forget it.
madam president, mr president of the commission, i am very pleased that you have finally managed to align the priorities for the commission's work with the way we, the citizens of central and eastern europe, see it, that you see security as a real priority. i also agree with your emphasis on cooperation with africa, which is key. with the strengthening of frontex: i have seen for myself how necessary it is that these coast guard and border guard forces be strengthened, these 10,000 workers can help. i also appreciate that you highlighted the need to protect human rights in china, that was the first time i heard that from you. i wish the new president of the european commission would not celebrate marx and trust putin less. the committee you chaired, mr. chairman, did a great job and i want to thank you for that. but it should also be noted that this commission has certain deficiencies which will have to be corrected.
in writing. there were a number of things that i would like to acknowledge in the state of the union address by the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker. these include the need to preserve a healthier planet for future generations, the need to deepen relations with the western balkan countries, protection against the manipulation of citizens online, integration in the field of defence, cooperation with africa and a long-term solution to the migration issue. what i can agree with much less is the fact that no other commission president was able to come forward with a proposal to increase the transparency of his office at the end of his career. in particular, to change the procedure of the comitology, which lacks democratic legitimacy. but we would probably expect too much from a chairman whose office is tied to a controversial promotion of his right-hand man. i was very disappointed that mr juncker, who has been advocating the need to combat climate change every year, was unable to deliver on his commitment to provide sufficient funding for this area throughout his term of office. if president juncker wants to talk about protecting the next generation, i think it is crucial that the commission ensures that substances on the european market are not kept where we do not have enough information about their safety, that the precautionary principle is not violated and that emergency authorisations of pesticides are not abused. i am convinced that if the commission wants to guarantee the protection of europeans, it should start by protecting their health.
mr president, i voted in favour of this directive. i supported the launch of the trialogue because i believe that the eu needs to have a clear legal basis, a common law, for the digital sphere. copyright has been regulated at european level for a very long time, and that's a good thing. the current situation, in my opinion, is not fair, because it is primarily the biggest giants who profit from it, and the rest are just so-called "going around". i think it's good to set a fair balance in these relationships. i also criticised the directive for not being very specific, but it is also a directive, not a regulation. now it's important to find a consensus within the trialogue and of course that legal basis will need to be put into the transposed laws in the individual states. so i don't think we're on the path of revolution, we're on the path of evolution. it is important that europe has a common legal basis in the area of copyright.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i regard the private pillar and supplementary pension schemes as complementary forms to be decided by the member states. in many countries, this is a tradition, and there are countries where this system of private supplementary insurance works very well. we also have compulsory private supplementary insurance in the czech republic. the question of the future of pensions should not be reduced to the question of whether public or private pension systems are better. but with an ageing population and other challenges, it is in this context that pension reforms need to be addressed and how the system responds to the reconciliation of family, private and working life that we are addressing here in the european parliament in many of the proposals. my own party kdu-čsl came up with a proposal in 2011 to make working parents pay lower social contributions depending on the number of children. people would not be punished for having children to care for and not being able to contribute to a private pension. the benefits for the sustainability of pension systems are also clear. by returning to work earlier, parents could contribute to the state budget earlier and would no doubt feel the support of society in bringing up their children. i consider this measure to be as important as other social benefits. unlike the general increase in parental benefits, this has not only an individual but also a social impact.
madam president, madam commissioner, we all see how the new gdpr rules have been shaken up in a number of media outlets, and as we both come from the czech republic, we know how much panic it has caused in the czech republic, because it has been exploited by eurosceptics who claimed that they will again restrict and bully people, even though these rules are supposed to protect ordinary people. therefore, this legislation needs to be explained in detail. although the eu institutions are among the most rigorous in terms of personal data protection, this legislation also needs to be dealt with and explained with a fair degree of rigour, and i am therefore pleased that the eu is also adopting this legislation at the highest level. of course, there must be exceptions for some agencies, such as europol, eurojust or euipo, which actually have slightly different tasks by their very nature and have a different way of handling personal data. however, i personally think that the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of data, as envisaged by the european commission, is quite well implemented and that the proposal, as presented by you, makes sense from my point of view. in closing, let me say that it's important how we communicate this to the outside world, that the whole gdpr is often a myth and its purpose is not to bully, but to protect ordinary people, and that i think should be the main message of today's meeting here over this legislation.
mr president, first of all, i think we need to say that, in area of the circular economy, we have made significant progress. i don’t want to be repetitive because a lot has been said here today in terms of what the situation is, the challenges, the objectives and how to meet them, and that is something that i can subscribe to. however, let me just add a different point of view. we have just adopted and brought into force the legislation on the circular economy, all the directives that we have thoroughly negotiated. i think that we need to have a look not just at the strategy but also at the plastics proposal. how does it fit with the system? take, for example, the collection target for beverage bottles: i have no problem with being ambitious but does it fit entirely? i mean, are we not in fact diluting the targets we have? eventually, is there something that we need to do to prevent discrimination between products, or an additional requirements for extending producers’ liability? again, this is an important issue, but what about consumers? in terms of the whole chain, we can’t put the burden on producers for the misbehaviour of consumers. so a number of issues need to be looked into, including awareness, and i’m sure that if we manage to fit this piece properly into the system that we have established then we can deliver results.
madam president, i would like to turn our attention to the second part of the joint debate, namely the question of how to deal with the serious problems at the frontier of legislation on chemicals, products and waste. in january this year, the commission published a communication addressing the possibilities of addressing the issues at the very edge of the legislation on these chemicals. the communication aims to promote a broad debate within the union and to find ways of addressing the main problems identified. we're dealing with four critical issues. insufficient information on substances of concern present in products and waste. secondly, the presence of substances of concern in recycled materials. third, uncertainty about how safely to handle these materials and whether they can be disposed of. fourth, the difficulties in applying the methodology. the commission's conclusions are therefore four problems. we should address these problems so that we don't have barriers in the circular economy. the ambition must be to achieve full compliance with the legislation. so i have the following two questions for the council. what is the council's position on these issues and on the possible measures proposed by the commission to address the four most important problems? more specifically, how does the council intend to contribute to further harmonising the interpretation and application of the provisions on waste by the member states?
in writing. it has become a common practice for key documents on recycling and material flows to stress the need to move from a linear to a circular economy. given that the basic materials of different plastic products are different hydrocarbons, it is not easy, especially for retail packaging materials, to ensure the chemical composition classification which is an important precondition for recycling. logically, the first priority is to prevent plastic waste, the second priority is to reuse, and the third is to recycle. this naturally requires the use of appropriate collection and sorting technology. today, only 30% of plastic waste is collected for recycling in the eu. 31% of plastic is landfilled and 39% is incinerated. since eu-wide rules against landfilling of plastics will be in place by 2030, there is a need to increase the possibilities for re-use and recyclability of packaging. the commission is invited to introduce a ban on microplastics in a range of products by 2020, while setting requirements to ensure that they are released from a wide range of materials. the horizon 2020 programme is to allocate eur 100 million for research into sorting, recycling and the use of plastic resources. i therefore strongly support the above activities mentioned in the report, as well as the inclusion of the 'ocean free of plastics' programme.
mr president, i am glad that we are also dealing with this problem, because it is estimated that passenger transport will increase by about 40% over the next 40 years and passenger transport by 60%. high number of fatalities on european roads: for example, 25 000 people killed per year. it's important to talk about emissions that are the result of transportation, air pollution in cities, which is the source of more than 25 percent of greenhouse gas emissions. i'm not going to go into the other effects, but i'd like to mention the positives. transport accounts for 4% of gdp and more than 5% of total employment in the eu. we should follow the principle that whoever is the user and polluter pays. we should promote sustainable urban and rural mobility plans. we should encourage the introduction of a multimodal passenger transport system, improve mobility and the quality of services for citizens. it is also important to raise citizens' awareness of the environmental impacts of different modes of transport. the development of low-carbon transport services should be our priority. we should also provide citizens with sufficient information to find an alternative to road transport, especially autonomous transport. another measure is also bicycle sharing in towns and villages.
the rapporteur. - mr president, we have on the table the report on the implementation of the plant protection products regulation. i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, the european commission, and in particular the european parliament's research service. it was a brilliant job, we've been working on this thing for over six months. we used to say that the european pesticide approval system was the most rigorous in the world. yes, that's right, the system does. but when we first look at how it's been put into practice, we find that unfortunately, this system is marred by disrespect, by circumvention, by abuse, by a lack of transparency, both at our level, at the eu level, and at the member state level. unfortunately, pesticide regulations are not fully implemented and the precautionary principle is often ignored, and the current situation could easily endanger the health of europeans as well as species diversity, ecosystems or soil. just a few facts that this research has shown us. there are a number of products on the union market that have not been reviewed for more than 15 years. the european commission is taking some very substantial steps in this direction and i am confident that its work will be successful. emergency authorisations, which are strictly to be used only in cases where plant production is threatened, are regularly abused by member states to circumvent the traditional authorisation process with potentially far-reaching health consequences. the case of neonicotinoids, which we have temporarily banned at eu level for the health of bees, and the ban in many countries has not been enforced at all, because that is how they were authorised, speaks for all of us. at our european level, the confirmatory procedure is sometimes abused, and unfortunately we have products on the market for which research is not yet completed, for which we do not know exactly what the consequences are, for which there is not enough data. among other things, this has resulted in the availability of many herbicides today that contain the same active ingredient as the infamous agent orange. for many pesticides, we do not know the long-term impacts on biodiversity, and we have a complete lack of assessment of the impact on soil, soil macro-organisms and soil micro-organisms. we can't deal with the cocktail effect, we can't deal with the long-term exposure of organisms to these substances and these consequences. but even if everything goes perfectly, at the end of the process, we have a standing committee on plants, animals, food and feed, which is more or less anonymous and doesn't have to be guided by anything, in principle, or by science. this report is an implementation report, nothing more, nothing less. we tried to stick to the conclusions of the research study, and i'm a little sorry for some of the somewhat emotional and unfortunately false amendments. an example of all this is the amendment of the european people's party, which has been unmistakably supported by other right-wing groups, which says that the number of pesticides available on the european market is decreasing. that's not true, the european commission is doing a really good job of that, and according to the european commission's public database, there are twice as many drugs approved in europe today as there were in 2009. this report is very timely, and its conclusions, research results and proposals can be taken up by the pest special committee, which is to propose improvements to our european pesticide authorisation system. i also used its results to work on the draft regulation on the transparency and sustainability of risk assessment in the food chain. unfortunately, this parliament does not have a legislative initiative of its own and i hope that the european commission will help us to propose the necessary changes to the legislation. some of the shortcomings identified are already being addressed by the european commission's proposals, others are yet to be addressed. in any event, this report will help in any further steps planned to improve this legislation.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank colleagues for a very important discussion. apparently a majority of this house are aware that there are problems in the eu system for pesticide approval and the implementation of this system, either at eu or member state level. i am grateful to the commissioner for saying that this means something to the commission. i look forward to the next time that we cooperate on this issue. but there is one last thing that i would say to ms mcguinness. i am sure that you adore science and you adore facts, so you simply cannot say that the number of available active substances is getting lower. i have a table of commission statistics here. it says, very simply, that, in 2009, 224 active substances were approved, and in 2018, 490 active substances were approved at european level. so the number of available active substances on the european market is not going down. that is simply not true. i would like you to give us the possibility to vote in a split vote against this fake fact.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been seven long years since the first interpellation by myself and several other colleagues, in response to the first signals of double standards. seven years since the european commission responded that different countries have different taste and price preferences, that the food is fine, so what? ladies and gentlemen, this is nothing less than the very essence of the functioning of the internal market. the previous parliament in 2013 already called on the commission to address the issue, to carry out a europe-wide survey and to assess the effectiveness of existing legislation. but it is only after five more years of persuasion and proof, of various surveys, that we have a report of double quality and a clear position of the european parliament. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have worked over the years to ensure that this highly political and symbolic theme, which speaks of the equality, fairness and equity of the european internal market, is taken seriously in the european union. i thank all those who have helped to explain here, in the commission and in the council, the essence of the matter: that it is really not normal for a product which appears to the consumer to be the same at first sight to have a different composition without the consumer also being aware of it at first sight. it's not a battle between lavender and purple, but a battle between less meat or meat substitutes, a battle between raw materials of lower quality, different quality and ratio, more additives and so on. what we want is for consumers to be free from deception and to have the right to products of the same quality. what's weird about the requirement: mark the same for the same and the different for the different. in short, not to be a consumer, forgive the expression, but a fool. many people in our countries have personal experience of dual quality, not only of food but also of non-food products. that it's a matter of taste? even with baby food for infants? but go. nor is the direct price-quality ratio applicable here. i am glad that the european commission has also been shaken up by juncker's state of the union speech last year. we have interpretative recommendations on the table, a common testing methodology, money to collect further evidence. more tests in the member states are planned. but be careful. we already have hard data, the results of tests in the laboratories of renowned universities, as in the case of the czech study in which i myself participated. it is certainly good to collect data at union level. but that's not enough after all these years of consumer frustration. especially when some countries where the double standard has been revealed refuse to participate in a pan-european survey. ladies and gentlemen, many of you will agree with me that it is not the job of politicians to tell manufacturers what to produce and how to produce it. the aim is not to unify products, to invent some kind of uniform taste for the euro. however, consumer preference must no longer be used as a pretext for lowering quality. most consumers are unaware that products of the same brand can be adapted to different markets. if a manufacturer wants to offer a regional adaptation to a customer, what's to stop them from proudly endorsing it on the packaging? i want accurate and at first glance easy to understand information about the composition of the product. that's the basics. member states must also introduce a regulation on the cooperation of national consumer protection supervisory authorities. they must share data, point out to each other non-compliant products and possible consumer misrepresentation. the role of consumer organisations is also important. i have great respect for their daily, ant-like work in monitoring the market and educating consumers. but we can't expect miracles from them. the most important thing from my point of view: the lack of legislation at eu level. a provision which clearly defines what constitutes dual quality without any possibility of different interpretation. that the sale on the internal market of products which can easily be perceived by the consumer as being identical with a deliberately different composition is misleading to the consumer. the regulation will also provide legal certainty to the supervisory authorities, who will not be afraid of costly legal battles with multinational companies. not so that your favorite drink tastes the same everywhere, but so that dishonest people feel the real possibility of punishment if they do not act fairly. ladies and gentlemen, i believe in the honesty of most manufacturers. yet, where they are lacking, there are lawmakers to stop their citizens, no matter where they live in europe. today's vote is a chance to show that we stand for a fair european union, where there are no products and no second-class citizens.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'double quality' in the definition of the term 'double quality'. but it is also an important issue in terms of how our internal market works. there can be no second-class consumers in the eu internal market. consumers who are destined for lower quality products. indeed, all consumers without distinction expect to buy identical goods in the union under the same brand or packaging. and they are rightly surprised to find that it is not. we need joint and decisive action at european level, and that is why i am glad that the european commission has already presented a legislative proposal. but we should also take advantage of the possibilities of existing regulations today and put pressure on manufacturers and traders, as well as on the supervisory authorities. they need to be provided with the right conditions for their work and cross-border cooperation between them needs to be significantly intensified. i also consider it essential to strengthen the role of consumer organisations. these can help people when they have doubts about the quality of a product. but the key for me is action. time is running out, and companies should show good will and start taking concrete action. we've been talking about this for a long time, and i just hope we can move from words to action.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the dual quality of food is a particular concern for consumers in the new eu member states. it is demonstrated that you will get products on the market with the same brand and the same packaging as those sold in, for example, germany, but their quality, composition and the recipe used are completely different. so the consumer is essentially being cheated. to use the excuse that czech consumers have different tastes or price preferences than german consumers is ridiculous. and we're not just talking about food here. unfortunately, the same is true of cleaning or hygiene products. i'm glad because, thanks to the tireless efforts of my colleague, sehnall, there's finally something that can be done about this problem. he's been pointing out the dual quality of the products since 2011, as far as i know. i welcome the commission's legislative initiative in this respect, which has perhaps finally understood that we are facing a real problem, not an excuse. it is certainly right to revise the unfair practices directive, but i am in favour of putting discriminatory practices against consumers as an additional item on the so-called black list of prohibited practices. i have signed the amendment tabled by mrs sehnall in this spirit and i appeal to all colleagues who want to do something for consumers in the eu to support this proposal. i hope very much that the promises will not remain on paper, because we do not want to have a double standard of consumer quality in europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we all understand that the same packaging must contain the same product of the same quality, and it is surprising that it has taken so many years to persuade the commission to help enforce this rule, this justice. i am pleased that it is on the floor of the european parliament that a number of initiatives have been launched and that the commission has heeded the call for clearer rules. we are proud that the czech republic has played an important role in this process. i would also like to thank my colleague, mrs olz sehnall, who has been working very systematically on this subject for many years. it was also the ministry of agriculture of the czech republic that pushed this solution at the level of the council of ministers. the methodology developed by the european commission can help member states assess whether a product is in breach of the rules, and we should know the first results as soon as possible. i am of course also expecting a positive outcome in the directive we are discussing. thank you again to my colleagues for this report.
rapporteur. mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, let me thank you very much for the debate today and for all your words of support. let me use this last minute to thank my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs on the imco committee and the rapporteur for opinions on the envi and agri committees, biljana borzana and momchila nekova. i am also glad that it was the social democrats in the imco committee who initiated the report. and i believe that our vote today will confirm the readiness of our parliament to amend the directive on unfair trading practices, as well as a number of specific recommendations contained in that report. it's an important gesture towards the citizens that besides the recognition of the problem there is also a real willingness to solve it.
mr president, madam high representative, the governments of many countries are applying to opposition leaders practices that violate fundamental human rights. uganda is one of these countries. unfortunately, it's become almost a standard set of steps for opposition leaders to be intimidated by the murder of their colleagues. falsely accused of, for example, possession of weapons, illegally detained and tortured in custody, and subsequently accused of, for example, treason for merely criticizing government officials. press representatives are taken to prison after the meeting. after the meeting they attended as press representatives. we must therefore also send a strong message to uganda that we will not tolerate violations of fundamental human rights. unless the ugandan government's approach changes, the eu must only provide targeted assistance to those in uganda who are fighting for respect for human rights and the rule of law.
mr president, i am glad that we have managed to negotiate a very good compromise. however, we have already adopted a similar resolution in september 2017, in december 2017, and what are the results? i'm not going to. ladies and gentlemen, the situation in cambodia has not changed at all. on the contrary, the crisis that is there now is escalating even more. i'm glad we finally moved on to a much more restrictive and powerful text. we call on the commission to draw the consequences of what is currently happening in cambodia, to draw up a list of those responsible who will be sanctioned with visa bans to the eu, and to send a clear signal to member states to start doing something about the situation. it is unacceptable that we are actually adopting one declaration after another and the situation is getting worse and worse, so it is necessary that we work together all the eu institutions the commission, the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy and force the cambodian government to cooperate. the european union must use all its instruments to help resolve the situation in cambodia at the present time.
madam president, i have supported this report on my own initiative. i consider the problem of plastic waste to be a global issue and the eu is one of the global actors and we should therefore lead by example in the fight for a clean environment. a study on the amount of plastic waste produced in the eu each year has produced alarming data. we are gradually polluting our planet, with negative effects on human health. and we're also adding to the economic losses with plastic waste. if the current situation corresponds to only 30% of recyclable plastics in the eu, we must work together to improve this situation. in addition to actions at commission and member state level, i believe it is important to stimulate civil debate and to encourage industrial companies to implement measures to reduce the amount of non-recyclable plastic waste.
madam president, i supported this report, because this strategy for plastics follows on from the waste package approved this year. it should serve to stimulate investment and the setting up of new sustainable business models in the plastics industry. the objective is also to ensure that by 2030 industrial enterprises use only plastics that are reusable or recyclable in their production. as the report states, less than 30% of plastic waste is currently recycled in the eu, which is a huge environmental burden indeed. by 2030, the agreed rules would require 55% of plastic packaging to be recycled. so the challenge we face is really fundamental. governments, businesses, and of course citizens and communities must be involved. local authorities are the first to face plastic and european funds must help them. but europe must also invest in research, technology, otherwise the targets of substantial waste reduction will be hard to meet.
madam president, i have supported this report on my own initiative. the recent controversy over the renewal of the approval of glyphosates has shown that confidence in the authorisation of plant protection products in the eu has been seriously damaged. it is therefore necessary to assess the effectiveness and safety of the authorisation regime for pesticides and herbicides at union and member state level. in particular, as regards the authorisation of specific products at member state level, there are serious doubts as to the justification for the application of a large number of derogations. the report also rightly calls for better sharing of data on medicines between countries and for greater transparency in the process. in this respect, some of the objectives of the regulation are not fulfilled. there's a lot at stake, of course. on the one hand, the work of farmers, their income, and also the provision of food for the population. on the other hand, there is the protection of public health, and our measures should be balanced.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the dual quality report summarises all the activities that have been carried out so far at eu level. there were many of them, and it was necessary to prove that there were indeed foodstuffs and other products that had the same packaging but different quality. it took a long time, but we are very pleased that the commission finally recognised that this situation needs to be addressed. so i voted for all the amendments. i believe that their aim is indeed to use all the instruments to ensure that systematic and effective quality control of products is carried out, in order to ensure fairness for all consumers in the single market. thank you to everyone who prepared the report.
mr president, i have a point of order, pursuant to the rules of procedure, whether there has been a change in the agenda - at present it is more of a one-minute speech under rule 163 - or whether the rules of procedure of this house are still in force and the member must always state the item before he wishes to speak.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, the proposal for a regulation on the assessment of health technologies is intended to improve cooperation between member states. the mere registration of a medicinal product or a medical device on the basis of an assessment of its efficacy and safety does not guarantee that a new treatment is a step forward. the different bodies that currently carry out hta in the member states often reach very different decisions on the same medicinal products, placing patients on a level playing field, in addition to being very confusing. moreover, these decisions lack any transparency and are made by a narrow group of people. as i have said on several occasions, i am very disappointed that the proposal focuses purely on clinical trials. it is a mistake to dismiss the economic, social and ethical aspects of the proposal. the proposal establishes a member state coordination group for health technology assessment as the main body. unfortunately, i was unable to get the committee to include a patient representative in the group. i'll try again. i'm going to table my committee amendment in the plenary and i would like to ask you to support it. i also do not like the proposed extremely long transitional period, after which member states will not have to participate in the system at all. it should be borne in mind that patients are waiting for this adjustment to arrive at equality in the individual member states. and other disappointments include the resolution of the issue of joint evaluation of medical devices, where, let's be honest, the wording voted by the committee essentially means their covert removal from the system. what we've done, however, is we've certainly made exceptions to give patients faster access to the rare disease drugs that patients are desperately waiting for, and thank god we're helping them with that.
madam president, we are talking about an area that covers some 80% of the territory of the european union, so there is a great potential in this area, for example in the czech republic, where some 73% of the areas we count as agricultural, mountainous or remote areas. this is the potential, particularly in agriculture, agribusiness, the environment, tourism. in short, the cultural and natural wealth of these areas is considerable and, as has already been said, it must be protected and cared for, and life, business and employment must be made possible. the only way we can support that is by building infrastructure, investing in transportation, services and now the internet. the european union has a clear agenda in cohesion policy and also in the common agricultural policy.
madam chairman, commissioner, i've been in charge of a small town for eight years, so i know quite a bit about the problems we're talking about here. we are indeed witnessing a very uneven approach to regional development, with 80% of europe's population expected to live in cities by 2024. i don't want this to happen, but i'm not optimistic that we can stop it completely. this means: what concrete measures should we take to prevent this development in europe? it is important that these mountain and rural areas have adequate infrastructure, whether it is roads, whether it is high-speed internet, of course. the czech government is failing quite a bit on this issue. that's really bad. civic infrastructure: there must be services available, schools, health care. there's no doubt about it, there's got to be social services. and we should know that all of these priorities have to be reflected in our long-term financial framework, we're not just talking about smart cities, we're talking about smart villages.
madam president, yesterday was september 30th, and we in the czech republic commemorated 80 years since the young czechoslovak republic experienced great shock, humiliation and betrayal by its allies. it was decided in munich whether we were going to be here or not. chamberlain, daladier and mussolini believed hitler that a concession would prevent war. and he didn't. today we can commemorate this sad date to know that peace and freedom were bought with millions of sacrifices. we must remind the younger generation of this date so that they understand why we are so opposed to the european union as a community where decisions are not made for us and without us. it's important not to forget.
madam president, i would like to comment on a subject which is of particular importance to me, namely the weakening of cohesion policy, particularly in the context of the preparation of the new multiannual financial framework. this is a sensitive issue indeed, and apart from the fact that cohesion policy in general is weakened by cuts in the budgetary share, new conditions are also to be introduced to limit or condition the use of this money, which is to be used to eliminate and balance disparities between regions. so there are going to be conditions that are really going to be politically sensitive, i have to mention the reception of refugees. i would like to say that i agree with some of the conditions, but for some, such as the one already mentioned, i consider this view to be a road to hell indeed. if we want to preserve the role of cohesion policy as the most dominant instrument of european policies, it is impossible to accept conditions that make the drawing of these funds a highly political issue, which i think does not really belong in the new framework, and i would very much like to see us change this together.
madam chairman, commissioner, i would like to draw your attention to the case of an ordinary man. it's the case of george sagan, who was recently convicted in france for allegedly smuggling 15 iraqis. a man who's been driving a truck for 15 years, who's never had a problem with the police in his life. he is a law-abiding citizen of the czech republic living in spain with his wife, who is seriously ill. the french authorities gave him 18 months hard labor for alleged human trafficking. these people confirmed that they got into his truck without him knowing. this is the rule of law? this is the commissioner, the european union, that i am supposed to fight for and explain to people? do you really think 18 months for a man who did nothing is fair and justifiable? i ask you to address this matter within the commission and help emmanuel macron understand what law and justice are.
madam president, i also share the view of many colleagues that it is high time to unblock the council on migration. leadership of the presidency here is needed, and many of the members of the european council are probably happy to have migration still on the agenda because it is a way to bash the eu all the time, and in fact the czech prime minister says there is no other issue vis-à-vis the eu than migration. but i am afraid migration is not the only issue, though it looks like that’s the only problem. if we look at what our public says, 70 to 80% feel that the eu should have a higher role in trade policy. 70 to 80% want a european defence policy. roughly the same number says that there are challenges in the economic area where europe has a role to play. my question is, when are we going to close the gap on a number of those issues? when are we going to be delivering on those issues? so migration, yes by all means, and let’s finally settle it. however, we finally need to address these issues as well. one sentence on brexit: i’m all in favour of unity, and it’s great that we have it, but in terms of, for example, aviation safety, if easa does not start technical talks with the caa, we will be in a mess from next year on. that is my message to the commission.
madam minister, mr vice-president timmermans, the european council has a key responsibility to come up with solutions to the current problems, and those are still, without a doubt, migration and security. colleagues, you are also calling for solutions to other important issues, such as social and environmental issues, these are important issues, but without restoring citizens' confidence in this crucial issue of security and migration, we will not move forward. in salzburg, the council of ministers made progress. strengthening the european border and coast guard is undoubtedly an important step, in particular in terms of increasing human and material capacities. it is also important that we make progress on the issue of establishing hotspots outside europe. ineffective efforts to combat illegal migration and the influx of economic migrants make it politically impossible to help those who really need it. people who are vulnerable or, for example, children who are victims of war. i speak from experience, because for several weeks now i have been trying to persuade the czech government to accept voluntarily, i emphasize voluntarily, 50 unaccompanied children from greek camps who are in dire need of protection, care and education. even this symbolic proposal is met with distrust by populist forces that exploit the fear of illegal immigration that we have unfortunately experienced in recent years. i want to assure you that the czech republic is solidary, contributing financially to the aid fund and to specific humanitarian projects. people in the czech republic want to help those who really need help.
the next item is the debate on:– the oral question to the council on the eu’s input on a un binding instrument on transnational corporations with respect to human rights, tabled by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on development, bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade, pier antonio panzeri, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs (o—000078/2018 – b8—0404/2018);– the oral question to the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu’s input on a un binding instrument on transnational corporations with respect to human rights, tabled by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on development, bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade, pier antonio panzeri, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs (o—000074/2018 – b8—0402/2018); and– the oral question to the commission on the eu’s input on a un binding instrument on transnational corporations with respect to human rights tabled by linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on development, bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade, pier antonio panzeri, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs (o—000075/2018 – b8—0403/2018) (2018/2763(rsp)).
the debate is closed. i have a short announcement. when i chair the plenary, at least, i will not be giving space during the catch—the—eye procedure to anyone who has not been present for the debate. i think that colleagues know who i am talking about. i will make an exception today, but for me a debate is a debate and that means one has to be present. catch—the—eye procedure
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for this very fruitful debate and for their contribution in this really challenging field. i would like to reply and make some remarks on some of the observations. first of all, let me underline what i said in my opening remarks. the european union is not opposed, as a matter of principle, to discussing a potential legally—binding instrument, and this is why we have engaged in the process led by ecuador. the second point, also on your observations. we nonetheless insist that the scope of the discussions should include all companies, not only transnational or multinational, as many human rights violations are committed by domestic companies. some of you raised this issue. my third point is about the european union’s position on this specific legally—binding instrument. the european union is a staunch supporter of the united nations in a rules-based global order and we expect all eu member states to comply with these obligations and implement them strictly. full implementation of these existing human rights obligations would help to respond to the numerous cases documented by civil society organisations and human rights defenders. we believe that any possible further steps regarding the international legal framework for business and human rights at un level must be inclusive, firmly rooted in the un guiding principles, and address all types of companies whether international or domestic, as i have already said. in the world of today, it is only within a multilateral framework that we can ensure that all the victims of human rights abuses resulting from companies’ actions receive the same level of protection. the european union has a strong track record in agreeing with and implementing the un guiding principles. we need to acknowledge progress also by a number of european companies to implement these principles, and expect others to follow. however, we should continue to explore options for filling the gaps in their implementation, for increasing respect of human rights by private operators and ensuring access to remedies both multilaterally and bilaterally. we should also see how we can best promote a global level playing field in line with international standards in this area. let me add that in the current challenging global context multilateral cooperation is more important than ever and it is essential that the european union and the un speak with one voice when it comes to upholding democratic values and the universality of human rights. this is the challenge.
commissioner, thank you very much also for responding to concrete elements that have been raised by colleagues.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, as already mentioned by the commissioner, the european union is not opposed to discussing a potentially legally binding international instrument on business and human rights. i think i am also repeating what you have already said when i say that any possible further steps regarding the international legal framework for business and human rights at un level must be inclusive, firmly rooted in the un guiding principles, and address – as you have already mentioned – all types of companies, transnational as well as domestic. let me also reassure you that the eu will continue to cooperate with all stakeholders globally on initiatives to ensure implementation of the un guiding principles on business and human rights, including through national action plans, and to promote accountability for human rights violations and the need for an effective remedy for all victims of human rights violations and abuses. with regard to your question on the formal mandate for negotiations, the council will take a formal decision on the opening of negotiations if, and when, it receives a relevant recommendation in accordance with article 218. to sum up, thank you for your fruitful statements. this has been a very useful debate, which demonstrates the high degree of convergence between the views of parliament and of the council on the importance of ensuring an effective level of protection for victims of human rights abuses resulting from companies’ actions, and of improving their access to effective remedies. this much—needed progress must, in the first instance, be achieved through clear commitments from all states to implement a duty to protect human rights and to abide by their existing international obligations. thank you again for your fruitful statements and for your attention.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 123(2)). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 4 october 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on eu support to unrwa, following the us withdrawal of financial support to unrwa (2018/2852(rsp)).
mr. chairman, i consider the israeli-palestinian conflict to be one of the most difficult conflicts in modern history. here in the european parliament a few years ago, the israeli president said that european reconciliation is an inspiration for israelis and palestinians. i believe that there will be peace there, and that there will be reconciliation. to do this, they need the help of other actors, including unrwa, which has an indispensable role to play in the resolution of this conflict, particularly in terms of humanitarian aid. the united states has decided to stop funding because of inefficiency and i ask the european commission to be very rigorous, to strictly control what it is used for, if it increases the contribution. i agree with my colleague, mrs škripka, that it is unacceptable that these funds should be used for unilateral propaganda.
mr president, commissioner, as has already been said, the ruthless civil war in yemen is now in its third year, and it is really a conflict between saudi arabia, supported by the west, and iran on the other side. it is the bloodiest conflict in the world today, next to syria, with tragic humanitarian consequences. it's kind of a side of the world's mainstream, maybe because the world's great powers are playing their games here, including the u.s., the u.k., and france. unfortunately, we really don't see any really effective political activity here from the un or the european union. the only thing we can and must do at this moment is to save lives, and i thank the commissioner for bringing this up. we put out fires that others start. the eu is actually becoming the largest humanitarian organization. of course, it's good that we're helping, but there's a lack of prevention and rescuing is not enough.
in writing. yemen was created in 1990, after years of bloody conflict, by the merger of traditional mountain resorts around the capital sanaa in the north and the people's democratic republic of yemen, the former british colony of aden. not only two different parts of the country, but also different interpretations of the muslim religion, sunni and shiite, have long divided this country. political instability culminated several months ago with the capture of the capital by the militant shiite organization al-houthi and the flight of the president to aden. sunni forces have received massive military support from the saudi arabian military, and the saudi military is slowly but surely advancing in its heavy bombardment of a number of rebel-held areas. the world public is watching with concern the heavy fighting in the port of al-hudaydah, where humanitarian aid has been pouring into the northern part of the country. of course, there's a wider context to this whole thing. the shiites have the backing of iran, the sunnis of saudi arabia, backed by a broader coalition of arab countries. somewhat unnoticed by the world public, which has focused on the lack of food and medical care, the main reason for the rivalry over yemen for years has been the bab-al-mandab strait, a strait that connects the red sea to the indian ocean. whatever the outcome of the conflict, millions of people in this country will once again be poorer and more economically dependent on foreign aid. what yemen needs now is immediate help to stop the fighting.
mr president, the automotive sector is undoubtedly the driving force behind european industry. that is why i am very concerned about the objectives proposed, which are very aggressive in their ambitions to enter the car market. they leave the customer's decision aside and dictate to the manufacturers how much they have to sell under sanctions and what the product should look like. they set beautiful goals, but they don't think about how to make sure that there's enough electricity to meet the needs of these cars. at the same time, there is no major technological change in the storage of sufficient electricity, including really fast charging. the solution is not the violent political gestures that we have had in our negative historical experience. it would be more sensible to give a huge boost to research and development in this area. the only thing that can bring about a fundamental change are new technologies and innovations in transport. all the revolutionary technological inventions we use today have been gradually promoted on the free market. they became successful in the marketplace when not only the customers but also the whole society was ready for them. if the european union wants to skip all this, it means that we are going the wrong way in a politically driven market, against free competition in an open competitive environment.
mr president, commissioner, it is clear that the european union has a vital role to play in reducing overall emissions and combating climate change. but we can't be reckless in this fight, throwing a baby out with a bathtub. our objectives for the automotive industry, which employs 13 million europeans, must be realistic and achievable. we must not allow this traditional sector to lose its competitiveness in global markets. let us encourage innovation, let us green-light all new technologies that use non-fossil fuels, but let us not be overly demanding and let us not concentrate our efforts in one direction only. a direction that could make the car manufacturers scapegoats, albeit for the sake of certain noble goals.
colleagues, i need to ask you all to respect your time slots. we are running behind and will have to catch up, and we also have the catch—the—eye procedure, so please respect the time that has been allocated to you.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have listened carefully to the debate today and i have heard a broad range of positions, in particular on the level of ambition, and that is also the situation in the debates that have taken place in the council. the transition to zero-emission mobility needs to happen during the next decades. however, this transition should happen at the right pace to allow sufficient time for the re-skilling of workers in the supply chain. and a smooth transition is particularly important for the many small and medium-sized enterprises operating in this sector, which are the backbone of the economy in many regions. some members addressed the issue of the introduction of a malus in the zero and low—emission vehicles incentive mechanism, in particular mr liese and ms ayuso. the commission proposal contains a new mechanism incentivising manufacturers to put more zero and low—emission vehicles on the european union market. it leaves manufacturers the choice as to how they compose their fleet but provides this benefit for those choosing to go for zero and low—emission vehicles. adding a malus would mean that manufacturers meeting their co2 targets could actually be penalised if they do not meet the benchmark, and analyses also show that the economic impacts depend on the combination of the target level and a possible bonus/malus benchmark for zero-emission or low-emission vehicles. with the increased penetration of zero and low—emission vehicles, driven by the high bonus/malus benchmark level, less effort will be needed in improving the efficiency of conventional vehicles to meet the fleet-wide co2 targets. and this results in a projected shift towards larger segments for conventional vehicles, leading to an increase in the net economic costs for consumers. some members commented on the non-paper on assessment of higher ambition levels, produced by the commission, and my friend bas eickhout actually said it was a political document. well, i would point out that the commission services have not manipulated any calculations and are not misleading the co—legislator: the non—paper clearly and objectively presents the results of recent analytical work and it aims to inform the ongoing decision-making process on the impact of options not considered in the impact assessments. the non—paper’s analysis is therefore only factual. it is fully transparent and based on the same methodological approach: as in the impact assessments, we provided all the necessary underlying background. in particular, the non—paper confirms that the only impact on jobs up to 2030 is positive for more ambitious scenarios. however, it also points to the fact that the transition towards zero-emission mobility will lead to differences between sectors. while overall employment increases with the level of ambition, existing jobs in the automotive sector related to the combustion engine risk being lost if the transition is too fast. the non-paper also confirms the key role of plug-in hybrid electric vehicles in this respect, allowing a transition to zero-emission vehicles while limiting automotive job impacts. in conclusion, i want to thank all of you for the very interesting debate tonight and i am looking forward to tomorrow’s vote. i am also confident that the council and the leadership of the austrian presidency will be able to reach an agreement on a general approach at the environment council next week and that a final positive political agreement among the co—legislators can be found before the end of the year.
thank you commissioner. we are all looking forward to the vote tomorrow. madam rapporteur, ms dalli, your closing remarks.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 3 october 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on:– the report by jeppe kofod, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on harmonising and simplifying certain rules in the vat system (com(2017)0569 – c8-0363/2018 – 2017/0251(cns)) (a8-0280/2018); and- the report by tibor szanyi, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on rates of value added tax (com)(2018)0020 – c8-0023/2018 – 2018/0005 (cns)) (a8-0279/2018).
mr langen, it is my understanding that ecofin today adopted a decision on the reverse charge system. i would have to double check, but i understand there has been a development in that respect.
colleague, i apologise. seriously, i do understand, but we all have hugely important points to make, but we would still be sitting here at midnight if we were to address them all. my apologies. i am sure this is relevant but i had to take the floor away from you.
mr president, the reason for the rise of neo-fascist violence in europe is the success of far-right parties in elections and, of course, the various forms of neo-nazi and neo-fascist propaganda. an example is the surge of commemorative events in croatia celebrating the ustasha as heroes, which a recent council of europe report has pointed out and also warned against. the far-right violence in chemnitz, germany, i think we all remember enough. despite these incidents, the strength of far-right parties is not, in my view, sufficient at the moment to undermine the democratic foundations on which the european union is based. but unless democratic parties find a way to effectively combat them in political competition, this situation can easily actually turn for the worse. i would also like to point out in this connection that the danger to european democracy is not only from the far right but also from the far left. i consider left-wing extremism to be no less destructive than right-wing extremism. and in europe there are still a number of communist parties that are orthodox adherents of marxism-leninism, an ideology that has a comparable number of human lives on its hands. every democracy is inherently fragile and vulnerable, and we must take care of our european democracy so that it does not slip through our fingers. in practice, this means choosing the right combination of preventive and repressive measures against all forms of extremism: both right-wing and left-wing. if you've read this correctly, i'm also for retaliatory measures. the attack on european democracy can come from both sides.
mr president, electoral law is fundamentally linked to the rule of law and the exercise of political rights, as well as to the free movement of citizens of the european union. it is astonishing to me that in the 21st century some member states deny the right to vote in national elections to citizens living abroad. after all, the right to vote is one of the basic rights of citizenship, and citizens of the same state should be equal in their rights. when the state unjustifiably denies citizens the right to vote in certain situations, it effectively creates second-class citizenship. was the citizen guilty of having worked, studied or resided in another country? that does not mean that he is indifferent to the fate of his country and that he should not have a say in its affairs. the commission should therefore take greater account of the 2014 commission recommendation and allow at least those citizens living abroad who request to participate in national elections. but in the institutions of the european union, we should be concerned primarily with the european elections. i consider it unfortunate that some member states - and the czech republic is one of them - do not allow their citizens living abroad to vote for their national candidates in european elections. i very much support the current bill that has been introduced in the czech republic to introduce postal voting. in the european elections, the law would allow czech citizens to vote for czech candidates from abroad for the first time. i consider it fair in terms of equal treatment of citizens living abroad. and i believe that would increase the turnout. this new possibility will of course also create the need to avoid double voting. but i believe that good cooperation and exchange of experience with other member states, as well as the recently approved amendment to the electoral code, will help us in this.
the situation in romania is alarming. the government's policy of tolerating corruption of officials is unacceptable. the government should listen to its citizens. if he's not serious about a 100,000 demonstration, then this debate in the ep is necessary. we are here to represent the voice of romanian citizens, who are not being listened to by the government. i fully support the commission's efforts to monitor the situation in romania through the cooperation and verification mechanism. but i am not calling for financial sanctions against romania in the form of a stop to payments from eu funds, because that would be the most harmful to the citizens.
mr president, mr prime minister, we are talking about the future of the european union, and you know very well that the european union is called in russian "европейский союз". that sounds very much like the soviet union, and i'd like to limit myself to one legal analogy. you know very well that all the communist states had in their constitutions a clause that spoke of the leading role of the communist party, according to which there could be no legal opposition, according to which there could be no fair competition between political parties. and we have a similar provision in the lisbon treaty. article 17 (3) says that the members of the commission are chosen on the basis of the requirements of europeanism, that is, there can never be a fair competition between political parties in the european union. this means that the opposition, which thinks only a little differently from the mainstream, will always be discriminated against in the european union. and i would like to ask you: this example that i have just cited is one of the dozens of examples of the democratic deficit in the european union. a terrible democratic deficit. i want to ask you to make estonia do our part to eliminate the democratic deficit from the european continent immediately, consistently and definitively.
mr. chairman, i supported this motion, which was approved. i am in favour of all harmonization and simplification procedures in the field of indirect taxation in general, and i would like to emphasize that. it is important to make the harmonization measures so that they do not fall on european companies, that they do not weaken their competitiveness, and i think that this proposal has succeeded in doing so. i am distinguishing this proposal from direct taxes, where i believe there is again considerable interference by the member states. i do not support excessive activism in direct taxes by the european parliament or the institutions in general. but i would like to point out that vat will change, it seems, several more times until 2022. yesterday, another amendment to the vat amendment was approved, following a czech proposal, and it is called reverse charge. the czech prime minister calls this change a bombshell. on the contrary, i think that the administrative burden on taxpayers will be very unpleasant and i would like to invite the member states to really think about it, because constant changes in the field of indirect taxation are certainly not indicative of good practice in the field of harmonisation.
mr. chairman, i would like to explain why i did not vote in the final vote to change the emission standards for new passenger cars. reducing co2 emissions is important in the fight against climate change and the european union is a leader in this. the commission has proposed to amend the emission standard to reduce co2 emissions by 30% by 2030. i think it was a wise decision. i was willing to vote for a 35% compromise, and that's already a very ambitious plan. however, despite the fact that many of us in the epp voted against the amendment, parliament finally approved the 40% emission reduction commitment, and that is already an unacceptable ambition for me, counterproductive, because the european car industry will be less competitive, we will clear the space for chinese competition. i hope that this decision will be corrected in the negotiations with the member states.
mr president, i could not support this proposal, i considered the original proposal from the european commission to reduce emissions from new cars and vans by 30% by 2030 compared to 2021 to be realistic, and i considered the more restrictive proposal of 35% to be reasonable and acceptable. however, i would no longer set myself ambitious goals that i would back down from anyway, and this is i think one of those goals that was approved. 40% reduction is one of those targets that is very ambitious, but not realistic. the setting of these limits must, in my view, reflect both the need for the changes that the climate is causing and that are set out in the paris convention, and the possibilities of the automotive sector, which provides thousands of jobs not only in the czech republic but also throughout the eu. we need to encourage car manufacturers to invest in the development of low-emission and electric cars, while avoiding measures that would have a dramatic impact on the price of the car and thus on the end consumer.
mr president, it is very good that the european parliament has started to address new phenomena in the digital space, whether it is blockchains or technologies for sharing, replication and synchronisation of data. these are all new phenomena, they are phenomena that are truly global in nature, and therefore belong in some way to the agenda of at least the european parliament, and they are also phenomena that will certainly affect the digital space in the future. they will affect the flow of information, and therefore the economy. i have supported this report, but i would like to make the case that in any consideration of control or legislation in the case of these new phenomena we should be cautious and not fall on thin ice. these are sensitive issues, and as we've seen in a few cases in the past, when we've dealt with the internet, with attempts to regulate all sorts of things related to it, it hasn't always been handled well.
mr president, i would like to explain why i supported the report on the european union's agenda for rural, mountain and remote areas. this report looks at the territory that is the majority in the european union, 70 to 80%, but it has a much smaller population in this comparison, about 20%. so even though it is such a large area, it is a smaller population. but it's a very important area in terms of food security, in terms of its agricultural production, in terms of environmental quality, in terms of oxygen production, in terms of water retention. these are all very important functions that these areas have and deserve our attention, our protection. the people who live in these areas also need services of the same quality. i therefore consider it important that the european union does not weaken the policies that are specifically concerned with ensuring infrastructure and the quality of services in these areas, whether the common agricultural policy or other specific programmes.
mr president, i supported this motion for a resolution, and unlike my colleague and rapporteur, mr sośnierz, i believe that it is very important to show our helping hand to the people who live in these areas. i certainly do not want 80% of europe's population to live in the biggest agglomerations within 10 years. it's a big risk for our future. if, in fact, the population is moving only to agglomerations and their rings. we should also invest in these mountain areas precisely because this land deserves it, the agricultural production that takes place there deserves it, and we must invest in infrastructure, that is, in the transport services of this territory, but also in services. there must be health services, school services, social services available. i think that the area that mrs šojdrová was talking about is quite extensive and to abandon it as my colleague mr sośnierz has suggested is, i think, really disrespectful to the people who live there.
mr president, i supported this report, i think it is partly a concern and i stress that the european union is also partly concerned about the care of remote, mountainous and agricultural areas. on the other hand, we know that the european budget is limited, that it will certainly not increase in the future, and therefore all these issues must also be linked to the revision and reform of the common agricultural policy, which has so far been based on support for production. and we have to transform it to support the comprehensive development of these areas, that is, to develop infrastructure, networks, to increase the quality of life, to protect nature, to protect water management. all of this is interrelated and must therefore go hand in hand with budgetary restructuring and reform of the common agricultural policy. i hope that this report is taking us in that direction.
madam president, i didn't join mr. sulík in applauding because i think he didn't understand what the debate was supposed to be about. if you read the title of today's item, it's about minimum wage. the minimum income as presented here by mrs agea is to be introduced in italy as a form of social support. a lot of people have said that. i'm not going to talk about the guaranteed minimum income, the blanket benefit, which some of you may have talked about. the european union is based on the concept of a social market economy. this concept counts social support as an expression of solidarity for those who cannot work or have lost their jobs. for those who are sick or caring for a loved one. social support must be derived from the cost of living and must be conditional on activity, because the goal is a dignified life and that counts with work. that is why social policy must be supportive, but also motivating, of course, and i think the commissioner has spoken very strongly about this. the decisive factor is, of course, the action of the member states, which decide on the level of solidarity, the level of social support, the level of the minimum wage, which should not have been discussed here today. it's really about social support. the european union has only a complementary role, which it fulfils in the form of the european social fund. it helps where unemployment is high, because only by solving unemployment can a truly dignified life be achieved for all.
madam president, commissioner, first of all, allow me to smile a little at the speeches by my british colleagues who are calling for the sovereign right of the member states to decide on criminal matters, and then on the other hand to see the united kingdom, which is the one that uses eurojust the most and calls for cooperation the most, because of course it is the one that needs to coordinate the fight against crime or, in the case of terrorism, the most. but sometimes it is. it is simply that someone has to go through brexit in such a way that they realise where and in what family they have been, and i personally see eurojust's role primarily at the coordination level and that is where i think it needs to be strengthened. i think you were right in your opening remarks to say that it is important to divide the competences between the public prosecutor and eurojust in such a way that they do not overlap, that they are efficient and that they can work together better. i think that is the point of this report and the point of our action, which we have been trying to promote here for four years or more. i think that eurojust is of great importance in the field of cooperation and, of course, unlike my colleagues, i know that it will not interfere in any way with the national sovereignty of the individual member states. i think that in addition to what you have said here, it is also important to say that eurojust has proved itself and that this agency, which is one of the european union's showcases, needs to be constantly praised and constantly shown the results of its excellent work.
the rapporteur of the committee on legal affairs. madam president, commissioner, the commission's proposal on the mutual recognition of freezing orders is a typical example of european legislation that brings undeniable added value to all citizens of the european union. only with transnational instruments can we effectively combat transnational crime. it should be borne in mind that the current situation and the lack of sufficient harmonisation facilitate the financing of criminal activities. it is our responsibility as eu legislators not to make life easier for crime and to adopt procedural rules that allow for the confiscation of the proceeds of crime of a cross-border nature. the committee on legal affairs has drawn up an opinion on this proposal, in which it proposes, in particular, that certain wording be clarified so that the resulting text is indeed sufficiently precise.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, commissioner, this is a regulation that i believe the whole parliament should support. it is a regulation that i personally fought for, sending a letter with my colleagues to the president of the commission asking the commission to act and make a proposal. i am happy today to see the result that we can confirm the new fifth freedom in the european union: the free movement of data. the free flow of data is vital to the digital economy and the single market as a whole. the free flow of data is what makes cloud computing services work. everything from email to accountancy software needs the free flow of data to work. everything from traffic to weather information needs the free flow of data to work. it was clear that at the european level, we needed to prevent actions which would have put our digital future at risk, including ill—advised national measures restricting this free flow. this regulation is an example of what the european union is all about. it is about removing barriers and preventing new ones from arising. it is about making the single market work for everyone – businesses and citizens alike. it is about agreeing common european rules and then treating every member state equally – rules that allow data to be stored anywhere in europe without discrimination. it is about adopting simple rules and simple legislation that solve real life problems so consumers and taxpayers can get the best value for their money while facing less red tape and pointless barriers in their daily lives. this is why i was proud to be part of the team and i want to say thank the rapporteur, maria corazza bildt, for her work on this file.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the issue of money laundering in the eu banking sector is extremely topical at the present time. the presidency and the council as a whole fully share the sense of urgency and the commitment of parliament and the commission to addressing this issue. our three institutions have worked together closely in recent years in a common endeavour to establish an effective regime to counter money laundering and the financing of terrorism. the amendment adopted earlier this year to the anti-money laundering directive is just the latest example of our good cooperation. turning to the issue at hand, the recent cases involving money laundering in some eu banks have shown that, unfortunately, anti-money laundering rules are not always supervised and enforced effectively across the european union. this is a great cause of concern, and i can therefore only support the commissionʼs push towards ensuring that anti-money laundering rules are effectively supervised and that authorities cooperate closely with each other. ministers at yesterday’s meeting of the ecofin council heard a presentation by the commission on its proposal of 12 september, an important contribution that the council is ready to consider very thoughtfully. beyond that proposal, we also need to consider a longer term solution and improvements to the current system. with this in mind, the council will be considering setting out comprehensive and long—term measures in this area by december. this is something that the council’s financial services committee is discussing today. the presidency is, of course, fully committed to maintaining and promoting the existing cooperation between the institutions. i am therefore naturally very interested in parliament’s views on the content of this latest proposal, as well as in the legislative approach that parliament will take. i look forward to hearing your views.
member of the commission. – mr president, like you, the commission has been shocked by the recent money laundering scandals in european banks and also by the failings that have come to light regarding the quality of national supervision and information sharing. these scandals endanger the reputation and integrity of europe’s financial system. while europe has the strongest anti-money laundering rules in the world, they need to be better enforced. the commission firmly believes that we need to enhance supervision in the eu. we are using existing powers and have asked the european banking authority to immediately investigate whether other supervisors in the member states concerned have breached eu law. some investigations have already been concluded, while others are still ongoing. at the same time, we cannot wait for further scandals to emerge. we must ensure the integrity of the eu’s financial system and we need to do so urgently. that is why, on 12 september, the commission tabled a legislative proposal to strengthen the powers of the eu supervisory authorities in anti—money laundering issues. as president juncker made clear in his state of the union address on the same day, we need to strengthen the enforcement of our anti—money laundering rules. our legislative proposal is part of a broader strategy to strengthen the eu’s framework for prudential and anti-money laundering supervision for financial institutions. through our amendments to our european supervisory authorities review proposal, which parliament is currently considering, we are proposing to concentrate tasks and resources within the european banking authority for anti-money laundering purposes, reinforce the tools for carrying out anti—money laundering tasks and strengthen the coordinating role of the european banking authority in international anti—money laundering issues. our accompanying policy communication also sets out improvements in the way that prudential supervisors reflect anti—money laundering considerations in their work and includes recommendations to the european central bank. we are also advocating further enhancement of the prudential framework for banks by improving information exchange and reinforcing the duty of cooperation between prudential and anti-money laundering authorities and bodies. the capital requirements directive is currently under negotiation between the council and parliament, and parliament has tabled useful amendments to that end. finally, the communication touches on longer term considerations as to whether a greater degree of harmonisation of anti—money laundering rules will be needed and whether we need a centralised anti—money laundering authority at eu level. alternatives could also be considered in order to ensure seamless information exchange and optimal cooperation between all relevant authorities in the eu, including those in the field of taxation. but, for now, i would again like to stress the need to move rapidly and decisively. in particular we need to quickly agree on the legislative proposal so that it can be adopted before the end of this term and the european banking authority (eba) can quickly assume its new tasks, which means that we have no time to lose. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to commend parliament for its persistent efforts, especially the work of the pana and taxe committees, to highlight the critical importance of the fight against financial crime, including tax evasion and money laundering, and to call to account all actors from both the private and the public sector. it is clear that collectively more can – and must – be done to address these failings and repair the damage that has been done to the eu’s international reputation.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, we have now less than one hour to discuss a very serious problem – the problem worth billions of dirty money. so let me try to illustrate, in the following 100 seconds, how serious the issue is, starting this some names: ablv latvia, versobank estonia, pilatus bank malta, danske bank branch estonia, and ing bank. these are just a few names of banks that showed serious weaknesses in the area of money laundering, and some of them collapsed and some of them suffered significant losses and have had to pay significant fines. but that is not enough: we all remember the ‘azerbaijani laundromat’ and the problems related to the use of crypto-assets for the financing of corruption or terrorism. money laundering is a very serious issue that is closely related to the crime, corruption, tax evasion and other acts that are seriously damaging our society – and we have to act. so far, it doesn’t seem that we are doing so sufficiently. take the example of insufficient regulation of crypto-asset exchanges, or the fact that the us authorities have to help us to find certain weaknesses in our financial sector. the protection of our financial sector against money laundering is clearly only as strong as the weakest point, and the weakest point seems to be very weak. in terms of improvement, i guess the focus should not be on approving new legislation, as it often has been. also, i am not sure that we should establish a powerful new institution. we should focus instead on enforcement and on strengthening the weakest spots in our system. the european supervisory authority (esa) review provides a good opportunity to find the right balance between the responsibility of supervisors and that of other branches of governments, including the police. we should not miss this opportunity, as clocks are ticking and the problem is very serious.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, some unbelievably large money-laundering cases have been revealed. at the same time, in hearings and missions of our taxe 3 committee, also dealing with money laundering, it was pointed out that some countries, especially smaller ones, are not capable of coping fully with this problem. therefore i welcome the commission proposal to reinforce the role of the european banking authority (eba) in anti-money laundering supervision of the financial sector. parliament has called a number of times for a more centralised anti-money laundering supervisory architecture. we can see that parliament is always a step ahead. however, we must get it right. these new tasks need to be followed by reinforced human and other resources. can we ensure that the eba will be given sufficient human resources to conduct its new tasks? the numbers i read seem modest to me: from two persons to slightly less than ten. could the commission tell us how many more persons should be allocated to these new tasks? finally, with this proposal, the eu is obviously putting a lot of effort into fighting money laundering in the banking sector, but we must not forget that money laundering also affects other sectors, for example real estate and gambling services. how will the commission ensure that we do not lose sight of the rest of the actors?
mr president, madam commissioner, despite the strengthened legislative framework adopted in recent years, we have recently witnessed a very serious problem with money laundering and therefore there is a legitimate concern whether our legal framework is really adequate and whether there are no gaps or deficiencies. the case of the collapse of the latvian bank, the freezing of the assets of the maltese bank due to suspicious transactions by its iranian owner, show that today's european anti-money laundering legal framework really lacks the necessary resilience to failures by the owners or managers of banks, or even national supervisors. the alarmingly low level of cross-border cooperation between national supervisors is also demonstrated by the revelation in the panama papers case that 21 billion euros of illicit capital flowed from russia to various banks in the eu. i therefore believe that the situation requires a decisive response from the commission, and i thank you, commissioner, for taking the lead in this initiative. effective anti-money laundering should be our priority. objections we may have to the current state of the rules: insufficient or delayed action by supervisors, shortcomings in the cooperation and information sharing of supervisors at national level or even between authorities in different member states or with authorities of third countries in the fight against money laundering. i therefore welcome the commission's action and its proposal for the relevant legislative amendment, in particular the one on banking union. the european authority needs to be given a stronger mandate in the fight against money laundering today.
mr president, any of us who have visited coastal hotspots in greece or italy know very well that these places need solutions and need help. commissioner oettinger said we need a smart and supportive solution. commissioner, i think that above all, we are safe and united. please let's not forget that. we cannot take in thousands of illegal refugees, illegal migrants, because it's not smart, it's not safe, and it leads to mistrust of citizens, mistrust of residents, who then refuse to help even those who urgently need that help, and they are refugees who are fleeing from war, from political, religious oppression, and people just don't have trust. so we need a solution that is safe and supportive. i have personally visited lesbos and i want to commend the work of the mayor of mytilene, who is facing the enormous pressure of more and new refugees coming to the island. the conversations we're having here aren't helping anyone right now, and i feel completely helpless. that's why i've initiated an activity with the czech government to have the czech republic accept 50 unaccompanied children from greece, minors who need this help. i believe that the czech republic will offer this solidarity aid. ladies and gentlemen, a solution that is supposed to be solidary and safe will ultimately help these local authorities.
mr. chairman, i am aware of the legal framework and also the basis of this discussion. it is supposed to be a discussion about supporting local and regional authorities, but on the other hand i have to say that the mediterranean is really our black conscience. it is a graveyard of europe, and there is no doubt that we should do something about it urgently. i noted a report a few days ago that one boat with refugees had received no assistance at all for more than a day, and several dozen of them, including children, had died. this finding is really tearing my heart apart. i have listened with interest to the statements of both the council and the commission and i would really like to ask whether the commissioner and the council are convinced that the local and regional authorities are receiving sufficient assistance from the european union in terms of linguistic integration, the educational needs of these people, their social and health needs. this really requires a high degree of coordination with these local and regional authorities, and i have my doubts about the support of the european union so far.
mr president, commissioner, i too must comment on the absence of the council, i think that on a matter as serious as the loss of several billion in the budget of the european union, the council should have been present at today's meeting. and the fact that it's the last item on the agenda, we're used to that for important items like this. but i would say that it is a very real reality that customs fraud is happening, not just in the uk but unfortunately in greece, and there are certainly more cases. olaf estimated that the loss to the overall union budget in 2013-2016 due to the missed customs duties on textile products and footwear imported from china via the united kingdom exceeds eur 2 billion. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty and that it is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the conditions laid down in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in addition, other investigations revealed significant vat leakages in relation to imports via the united kingdom, where vat exemptions were overused, and these two cases from the united kingdom alone caused an estimated loss of eur 3 billion to the eu budget. olaf is also currently investigating a new case of undervaluation involving the port of piraeus in greece, which represents a serious loss of eu funds. it is estimated that the vat unpaid cost italy several tens of millions of euros. we should therefore really think about how to deal effectively with cases of customs fraud. first, national authorities should take strict action against those who have engaged in fraudulent customs evasion and against those who have knowingly engaged in laundering the proceeds of such criminal activity. nor should we passively ignore the fact that debt recovery normally takes up to 10 years. the commission should ensure that member states fully comply with the provisions of the union customs code and should make regular estimates of the amount of unpaid customs duty.
mr. chairman, free media and independent journalists. they are lukashenko's sworn enemies. journalists from independent media are the target of a relentless process of intimidation. the charter 97 information portal has been blocked for almost a year. in 2010, its co-founder was murdered, charter was expelled from belarus and has been broadcasting from poland since 2011. the blocking of her website is economically crushing her. in august this year, there was a wave of arrests and seizures of property in several newsrooms. journalists face criminal charges and are threatened with prison sentences. last year, more than a hundred journalists were arrested. almost two years ago, we lifted the restrictive measures against belarus. the belarusian side is profiting from european money. i therefore appeal to the conditionality of our cooperation, to the respect of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the belarusian citizens. lukashenko shows us that instead of democratizing, he is tightening the screws and persecuting those who try to freely inform fellow citizens about what is happening in the country. let's not trust dictators, ladies and gentlemen. the charta 97 web portal was created on the basis of the belarusian charta 97 movement, a movement inspired by the czechoslovak charter 77. another important reason, ladies and gentlemen, why i feel, why i feel as a czech, an obligation to fight against human rights violations in belarus. freedom is indivisible. belarus' freedom is our freedom.
mr. chairman, society is as free as its media. i am very pleased that the european parliament agrees to support a free media. journalists in belarus are experiencing a new wave of repression. media employees who criticize the regime of alexander lukashenko are arrested, beaten or forced to pay fines. the government blocks access to independent media on the internet. it also blocked the pages of the news portal charta 97, which served as a platform for those who sought to promote democracy in belarus. in june this year, the belarusian parliament approved an amendment to the media law. the pretext was to fight disinformation, but it's just another new censorship. we must stand up for freedom of speech, independent media and democracy in belarus. arresting and physically assaulting journalists is unacceptable, as is censorship. freedom of assembly and other freedoms should be our condition for cooperation with belarus.
mr president, i would like to condemn in the strongest possible terms the practices of the lukashenko government which suppress freedom, suppress the plurality of opinions, of course the freedom of the press, as we are discussing here. i would like to emphasize that we sometimes deal with cases that take place far away from us, perhaps in other civilizations, and we often overlook such flagrant violations of the fundamental values on which the european union is founded, which take place right in our own neighbourhood. i think we should deal in particular with cases that are actually happening both within the european union and, of course, in our immediate neighbourhood. i don't mean to underestimate the role of the remote cases we're working. freedom of the media is indeed a key value of democracy and i would like to support the media concerned and media freedom in general in belarus not only with my speech but also with my vote in a moment.
author. mr president, i think the european people's party has always been on the side of those who are persecuted in the world. that is why we have not been far from the case of ahmed mansour, a human rights activist who was convicted of defamation, disinformation and public order offences, which are things that we in the european union are certainly not aware of. ahmad was sentenced to 10 years in prison and i agree with the need to have a dialogue with the government there on whether this decision violates the rule of law. unfortunately, we are not satisfied with the final text of this resolution, as is the european people's party. instead of sticking to the facts, we put a bunch of ideological and nonsensical things in there that you can disprove in five minutes of studying the whole case on google. i think we should be more credible as the european parliament and really try to stick to facts in our resolutions and not to conjectures and ideological phrases.
mr president, i want to defend mr mansour and call for his release, but i cannot ignore a statement by our colleague, mr schaffhauser, who was the only one in this chamber who said that mr mansour should remain in prison. i find that statement to be most outrageous. mr schaffhauser is no longer here, but i think it is really outrageous that a member of parliament should express himself in this way. it is important for me to say that the situation in the gulf is generally worsening in terms of human rights violations, and we cannot remain silent about the united arab emirates. if mr. mansour is being held in conditions that resemble torture, with no access to a lawyer, i think that at a time like this, we have to speak up. of course, the choice of the specific wording of that motion for a resolution is a matter of course. i am not satisfied with certain sentences, but i want to ask for mr. mansour's release.
mr president, i wanted to respond again to mr schaffhauser's statement, which was again very outrageous, because he actually denied any pressure from the chinese government on the uyghur minority. i must say that he behaved in exactly the same way as mr lopes of the united left, who denied parliament's legitimacy to speak on these issues. it shows that the starting points of some radical members of the far left and the far right are unfortunately the same and perhaps they should be sitting side by side, not across the room. i would like to really defend the rights of this minority, because their oppression is undoubtedly ethnic and it is clear that china is only masking its alleged fight against terrorism. we should also stand up for this minority when we visit china, as mr paet said, because we can speak and we should not just be silent when we go on our delegations.
madam president, as has been said here, the situation in the uighur autonomous region is more than alarming. up to one million people are held in re-education facilities. i dare say that, put that way, xinjiang is the largest prison in the world. the main charge against them is often very vague, supporting terrorism. the xinjiang case is an example of how counter-terrorism can be abused against the population, and we should know that there is current information that on october 1st, mass movements of uyghurs were recorded in closed wagons with blinded windows from south to north. this method of mass transfer of prisoners is reminiscent of the period of stalinism in the soviet union and its repression. i therefore fully support the european parliament's call on china to end this repressive practice against the uyghurs and agree that the eu should also consider targeted sanctions against those responsible for this repression.
madam president, i would like to explain why i supported the resolution on the situation in yemen, even though the left blocked an oral amendment by mr tannock, who wanted to mention the iranian bombardment of targets in saudi arabia. this resolution of ours calculates the facts of the tragic conflict, of its appalling humanitarian consequences and the suffering of the civilian population. the european parliament calls for humanitarian aid. it needs to be more intense. despite the war conflict, which we cannot effectively resolve at this time, there is a need to help people. the report also takes into account the broader geopolitical context and the fact that yemen is a very unstable part of the middle east where the long-standing interests of various terrorist groups clash.
the author. madam president, madam commissioner, industrial broiler farming is the dominant model for supplying the european market with a large quantity of relatively cheap meat. the so-called professional farms, with over 5 000 broilers, now cover 90% of the total broiler population in europe. the worldwide expansion of intensive poultry farming is not just a question of animal welfare, it is a question of human health. broilers are typically raised in a single space by the tens of thousands, with no access to daylight, no enrichment of the environment, no possibility of meeting the normal needs of the animals. mobility problems, dermatitis, deformity, pain, stress, inability to exhibit natural behaviour, these are just examples of the problems these animals face during their lifetime from transport to slaughter. it is truly shocking what we, as citizens of the developed countries of the 21st century, tolerate as normal economic practice. if the public knew the plight of these animals, i believe that most people would not be willing to eat the meat at all. over the last 80 years, we've reduced the life span of broilers to an average of 49 days, and at the same time, we've increased their carcass weight by 100 percent. can you imagine that? from hatching to 9 pounds in less than two months? but these experiments with nature are already getting out of hand for manufacturers, and that should be of interest to those who don't care about animal welfare. the poor health of broilers in factory farms requires the preventive use of antibiotics to prevent the emergence of epidemics and the spread of disease. statistics show that in the eu, around 70% of all antibiotics are used in livestock production, mainly in large farms, and most of this is used for the mass medication of feed or drinking water. this use of antibiotics then leads to the emergence of resistant and multi-resistant strains of pathogens. some strains of campylobacter, salmonella and escherichia now show resistance, and more are on the rise. if we don't start addressing this global problem in time, we risk having problems with our own health care. because we have no effective substitute for conventional antibiotics, and losing this tool would literally set our health care back a hundred years. the fact that factory chickens are a major source of ammonia pollution, among other things, seems like a piece of cake when compared with the problem of antibiotic resistance. i believe that we should carefully assess the impact of large-scale production and promote more sustainable farming practices and in this context we would like the commission to answer the following questions: will the commission take action to improve the enforcement of the broiler directive, in particular with regard to the systematic and consistent use of animal-oriented indicators? what action does the commission intend to take to promote alternative systems for chicken production such as those that favour more suitable breeds, lower rearing intensity, enriched environments, access to daylight, etc. given that such systems can help reduce ammonia emissions and reduce the need for uncritical use of antimicrobials and improve animal welfare? when will the commission publish a report on the socioeconomic impact of mandatory labelling methods?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. – madam president, let me share with you just three points from the opinion of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) to the budget. first of all, as we know, member states are not very keen to have a large budget. this is the reality and, as a consequence, we must aim even more to use money in a highly efficient way in areas where it is required by eu citizens or where it creates high value-added. second, isas are very important for the good functioning and stability of the financial sector in europe. cooperation with national regulators is absolutely essential. that is why we believe that they should be provided with adequate financing that respects their current challenges, including relocation or assignation of the new tasks. at the same time, we must push for increased efficiency of isas. last but not least, econ is also calling for adequate resources, for example for the coordination and surveillance of the macroeconomic policies of the member states’ fight against tax fraud and tax evasion and other areas.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism. – madam president, i very much agree especially with what the commissioner has said, that we need to set the priorities, and we have set them to maintain them as priorities. in fact, should we ask the public – and we do have surveys – what they consider to be a priority, transport usually is ranked among the highest. there is where people see a real difference being made by the european union. in transport, with significant long-term projects, what matters is continuity and stability. by the way, in transport we have one of the biggest successes of the european union: cef, sesar... these are issues which are widely recognised. we strongly support also what the budget committee has finalised and what has been voted, and we were looking at it primarily from the perspective that we should deliver on those legitimate priorities that we have set and the legislation which is in place and will be put in place in the course of these months. one final remark: we would also support minor issues like passenger rights where there is very little awareness, this is insignificant money but just to say that sometimes it is also about small issues.
the budget of the european union is an instrument for implementing european policies. they must address the priorities of european citizens and ensure that the objectives we set ourselves are achieved. i welcome the fact that the rapporteur did not play the council and commission, whose proposals were of an insufficient standard, and proposed to increase the budget. thanks to my group, the european parliament will negotiate with the council a plan that includes increased funding for the erasmus+ programmes, the youth employment instrument and the european child poverty guarantee. i also welcome the increase in climate change funding. the european union has been underperforming in this field for many years, despite repeated criticisms. if we tolerate failure to meet our own commitments, we will undermine our image in the eyes of the public and waste the time we have left to take the necessary adaptation and mitigation measures. on the contrary, i regret that my colleagues on the committee on budgets did not listen to my requests and increase the resources of efsa. the agency will objectively need a higher budget, inter alia, in connection with its work on pesticides. the failure to secure the budget is in this case tantamount to a threat to nature, but also to the health of all of us.
mr president, i would just like to draw attention to some important concepts associated with this report, this legislation, in my one minute. firstly, it is the availability of water if it is actually available to all citizens and to avoid speculation on the availability of this water. secondly, it's the quality, not just the clean water, but of course the water that is free of, for example, endocrine disruptors. or the issue of microplastics. the other is sustainability, the ability to deliver this accessible water to the citizens, but sustainability of the system as well. this means that the system must be able to respond to new technologies, while ensuring that the water available does not dramatically increase household costs. the second is transparency, i.e. the predictability of the system of supply of this water and the predictability of the quality of the water itself. the last one for me is a partnership project, i.e. partnership with municipalities and cities. i would also like to point out that in the czech republic, for example, we have many citizens who unfortunately still do not have access to water. they make up 11% of the european population.
mr. chairman, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the right to water and sanitation was recognized as a human right eight years ago on the un's soil. in this context, it should be borne in mind that member states are obliged to put in place action plans aimed at ensuring universal and equitable access to safe and affordable drinking water for all by 2030. but how do we do that when we're seeing a lack of investment in maintaining and restoring water infrastructure? how does the state intend to ensure that access to clean drinking water is not restricted by the lack of affordability, when water management is constantly threatened with privatization and is already being privatized in a number of states? how do we ensure safe water for citizens if the commission does not present an updated eu strategy on endocrine disruptors? if we want to prove to the citizens that their areas of interest are our priority, we have to start from the bottom. the foundation for me is water, so we have to start with the right to drinking water.
mr. chairman, plastic can be a great invention, but it's changing over time into our nightmare. the environmental impact of plastic products is, in my view, still not sufficiently addressed. we are now literally flooded with tons of plastic that ends up in our seas and oceans, which is contrary to our efforts to preserve the oceans as such. europe produces 150,000 tonnes of plastic waste every year, which ends up in the sea. we must take drastic action against plastic products, or it will soon be too late to solve the problem. if we really want to prevent negative environmental impacts, we need to set a stricter legislative framework. i fully support this policy being focused on single-use plastics. uniformity also excludes sustainability. we have to deal with plastic bags, straws, plastic utensils, etc. on the other hand, we must come up with practical measures to replace these funds at the same time. only environmentally friendly products will allow us to avoid the current plastic waste situation from worsening.
plastics are responsible for 85% of the waste in the oceans. every year, 150,000 tonnes of plastic from europe ends up in the ocean. but the statistics about the impact of a single waste unit are also frightening. for example, a single cigarette filter can contaminate between 500 and 1,000 liters of water. i support the banning of products for which we already have more environmentally friendly alternatives. for the other products, investment in the development of alternatives will be needed before prohibiting them. at the same time, i believe that the amount of plastic contained in a product must be taken into account when implementing the measures of the directive. it is unfortunate that the draft directive and the report of the committee do not take account of the differences in the amount of plastic contained. while we may want producers to invest in alternatives and share the costs of waste collection, these obligations must be proportionate. i therefore welcome the relaxation of the liability regime and the addition of the commission's obligation to draw up guidelines to help member states apply the producer responsibility regime and (hopefully) prevent excesses.
mr president, i would like to thank my colleague, mr hetman, for a very good draft report. it is encouraging that the eu economy is currently growing and we are getting back to pre-crisis levels. moreover, i would remind you that at the beginning of 2018, the lowest unemployment rate in the euro area since 2008 was even measured, namely 8,6%. but i would like to point out that we should not focus solely on the positive indicators, which perhaps a little bit distorted, prove that we have in many ways restarted our economic performance. these indicators do not, in my view, sufficiently reflect all the circumstances. it is true that unemployment not only varies from one country to another, but is also different, especially when comparing the regions of the member states. moreover, the eu still has plenty of room for improvement in the area of youth, women's and successful labour market integration, for example of immigrants. the response to globalisation, digitalisation is still insufficient and many workers are indeed vulnerable. so i would be very careful in those areas. closely linked to this is the funding of cohesion policy, which also helps the least developed regions to grow.
mr. chairman, i'd like to follow up on my esteemed colleague mr. shkripka. i also wanted to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the founding of czechoslovakia. i would like to point out that we will be commemorating this important anniversary with the french president emmanuel macron and german chancellor angela merkel at the end of this week. this is a special moment for our country, as we remember the role of the first president of free and democratic czechoslovakia, tomáš garrigue masaryk, men of october 28th. their glorious vision of a free state, the goal they set for themselves with a well-thought-out plan, is truly a demonstration of their statehood. their work, which, despite the overwhelming difficulties, has survived all the disasters of the 20th century, provides our generation with the precious values of freedom, democracy, in which even the individual is important and has his place and irreplaceable value. their vision has collapsed, but cooperation continues to build the eu. i must also remind you that on october 28th, the men deliberately aligned themselves with the western democracies. unfortunately, subsequent historical developments after 1948 tore czechoslovakia... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the facebook scandal has been a warning for all of us about what can happen when data is misused. now, however, we have to focus on the lessons learned. first, we need to be extremely cautious in protecting our data online. internet literacy and staying safe on the internet must become a standard part of our education systems. second, platforms need to better self—regulate. the days of community codes are over and now we need strict guidelines and rules. more importantly, platforms should act. lastly, fake news is a direct threat to our democracy with a potentially significant impact on the election results. important decisions, such as whether to stay part of the eu or not, should not be decided based on targeted fake news. we should bear this in mind in the run—up to the forthcoming european elections. we want to keep the internet an open and free forum of discussion, but we need to know how to spot the fake.
mr president, mr president, thank you for your clear words on the common and united european future. you have already mentioned that you expect a uniform approach to brexit, a uniform approach to the mff. i wonder how you see the solution in the case of your presidency, if it has to complete the negotiations on the asylum system, and you also have to complete the negotiations on the mobility package, which concerns social security for drivers. this is a subject that is of course also very much on the minds of romanian workers and entrepreneurs. i very much hope that young people will not have to leave the east for the west, from romania for the west, from the czech republic for the west. i wish very much that they feel safe in our countries, that they see their future here. your prime minister has not calmed our concerns about developments in romania and we have high hopes for you.
madam president, i voted in favour of this report and i would like to comment on this subject. i think we all realise how crucial this area is for the future development of the european community. it is indeed a primary resource, water is the primary resource for our life, which is also an important part of the daily life of every european. europeans do not yet feel personally affected by the problems of access to or quality of drinking water. and by availability, i mean both the physical availability of that commodity, and of course, the affordability of that commodity. this does not mean, however, that we should not take new steps to improve the current situation in this area. access to drinking water and its quality are primary eu concerns, yet i think we should be very careful in devising new legislative measures. in this area, we must not forget to respect the principle of subsidiarity. water resources should be primarily managed and treated by the individual member states. i supported this report and also supported certain measures which emphasised the role of the municipalities and cities.
madam president, i am a little surprised that the honourable member is not familiar with all the instruments used by the eu, but that is perhaps just a sigh. i think the report is rather restrained. it talks about a number of models of employee financial participation for job creation and motivation. we're talking about models that are financial share of profits, individual employee ownership, employee ownership in cooperative shares and employee ownership programs. there are indeed many ways of motivating these workers, and i find it desirable to motivate employees to create new jobs. i am also glad that, as i said, the report is rather reserved, indeed it says that the role is primarily that of the member states. and it is only essential to me that the rules laid down, above all by the national regulations, should be as predictable and transparent as possible. and because all of this was in the report, i was really happy to vote in favour.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i have literally come running from the college meeting that has just ended to present to you the work programme for 2019 that we have just decided. i think we are all aware that the next six months will be crucial for our union. for europeans going to the polls next may it is not enough that the commission has made proposals to make their lives better, they want to see results on the ground, concrete decisions. together we have a very short window of time in which to find agreement on the many proposals that are on the table and thus show that the european union can deliver solutions to the challenges that cannot be addressed by any of our member states acting alone. challenges such as ensuring that europe’s return to economic growth benefits all, and creating opportunity in the transition to the digital and low carbon economy. challenges such as demographics and migration, climate change and the competition for resources, which require a shared push towards sustainability. challenges to our values and democratic societies from terrorists, cyber-attackers and disinformation campaigns. in an increasingly volatile world, we have to show that europe is able to deliver solutions to these biggest of questions. today’s work programme reflects fully the ambition of jean-claude juncker’s state of the union address last month and the accompanying letter of intent. it represents the commission’s commitment to work intensively with you, and the council, to deliver what we promised under the 10 priorities on the basis of which this house approved the commission’s mandate, as well as, of course, to prepare the union for the future. our work programme has been enriched by the fruitful exchanges we have had with parliament, through the structured dialogue with the conference of committee chairs and with the conference of presidents as well. we have also had a good exchange with the council in line with the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making. so the first priority for our work in the coming year is all about delivery. with the initiatives presented alongside the state of the union address, the commission has tabled all of the legislative proposals needed to deliver on our common agenda for jobs, growth, fairness and democratic change. together with this house, and the council, we have found agreement on nearly half of these and a further 20% are well advanced in the legislative process. the priority must now be to turn the remaining proposals into legislation and then to implement it effectively. the joint declaration on the eu’s legislative priorities for 2018 and 2019, signed by the presidents of the three institutions, has proved valuable in helping us to find shared priorities, and especially to stick to them. i know from our dialogue that this parliament shares the commitment to maintain and further step up the momentum. the commission will be a constructive and energetic partner to you, as well as to the council, in helping find the agreements needed to deliver what we promised on migration, on the reform of our common asylum system, on the digital single market, on a fairer and deeper economic monetary union, on the european pillar of social rights and on internal security, to name but a few. to keep strong focus on delivery on these shared priorities, we are only proposing a very limited number of new initiatives in our work programme. some of these are policy initiatives which are needed to complete the 10 priorities in areas such as further boosting investment, addressing the challenges of artificial intelligence or tackling disinformation campaigns which threaten our democracy. whilst continuing the significant efforts to ensure an agreement with the united kingdom, we will bring forward the necessary measures to adapt the acquis ahead of brexit. we will also continue our better regulation work. to consolidate this as part of our collective dna, we will present the results of our ongoing stocktaking this spring. today we are announcing evaluation work and fitness checks to ensure our existing laws are fit for purpose and up to date, including in areas flagged in the opinions of the refit platform. we will also pay particular attention to ensuring the laws we already have are properly implemented and applied. in parallel with the work programme, we are also presenting a communication which sets out how we propose to strengthen the role of subsidiarity and proportionality principles in our policymaking. finally, our work programme takes forward the roadmap to the sibiu summit on europe day next year. this will be a crucial moment for the eu of 27 to shape our collective future. the commission will help prepare this discussion with contributions on delivering a sustainable european future to implement the sustainable development goals and surpass our paris commitments. we will advocate moving to more efficient decision-making in energy and climate, tax and social policies. we will also look at how to strengthen the international role of the euro and, as we will discuss further in the debate later this evening, at strengthening the rule of law framework. to build a strong foundation for our european future it is clearly essential that we find agreement before the sibiu summit on a future mff – multiannual financial framework – which will enable us to deal effectively with the challenges ahead. honourable members, this is the time to deliver; let’s get to work.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i believe that we should now focus a little bit less on the current commission’s legacy and try to make a real effort to deliver on our commitments. we need to prove to our citizens that we hear their concerns and we act upon them. in my view, the commission needs to be realistic in what it wants to achieve before the end of its term and concentrate on a few key priorities, instead of opening a number of new issues. sometimes less is more. so what should the commission do next year? first and foremost is brexit. in 2019 the eu will go through a major, unprecedented moment in its history. it is in our common interest that this happens as smoothly and peacefully as possible for citizens, for businesses, for the entire european union. the commission must do its best to finalise an agreement together with the uk. beyond brexit, we must continue our work on key issues, border security and the personal prosperity of eu citizens. we have passed through difficult periods in europe recently and we need to make sure people understand that the eu is on their side and prevents effectively potential future crises. i agree that one way to prevent external crises is to work better with our neighbouring regions, including africa. on the other hand, i wonder if it’s time now to come up at the end of the commission’s mandate with long-term proposals, such as the voting procedure within the council, without having an in-depth political debate with this parliament and the member states. let us focus on fixing the big problems we have right now instead of focusing on creating new ones.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, here we are once again discussing another unacceptable tax evasion scandal affecting a large number of countries. even more damning is the fact that the german authorities stopped cum-ex trading in 2012 only for it to have reared its head again in germany and other member states. the role of the banking industry in facilitating this large-scale tax fraud emphasises the need to hold tax administrations, banks and others responsible to account. the question is, why are the authorities not doing more to prevent this form of illegal tax evasion? and how is it that, every time these scandals are uncovered, it is left to investigative journalists to do all the work? in the tax3 committee, we will pay the utmost attention to these revelations and continue to work to find solutions to ensure effective legislation, efficient implementation and robust enforcement of rules across the eu. in this latest scandal, it is estimated that taxpayers were swindled out of eur 55 billion. this has to stop. hard-working people are seeing their money disappear into black holes due to a combination of unscrupulous individuals and, at times, the incompetence of enforcement authorities. citizens deserve better.
mr president, the tax system we are now using is maybe well suited for the middle of the last century. since then the world has changed. it is smaller, it is quicker and it is virtual to some extent. states even now are slow to react to this situation. at best we are filling the holes and sometimes creating new ones. the cum—ex scandal is about sophisticated greedy people, about the bankers and the lawyers, and about victory over tax authorities equipped only with the data and sometimes slow. it is a very sad story and billions were lost. i hope this will finally help us to team up together and start to trim the tax system so that it reflects the reality of the 21st century. if not, our economy will be harmed and public confidence will be lost.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, the sea of azov is actually a bay of the black sea between the crimea and the southern russian steppe. the surrounding area is covered with beautiful black earth, and from an airplane view it looks very idyllic. a completely different impression is probably made by anyone who knows the name of one of the private armies, the azov battalion. the dismantling of high-voltage electricity pylons in crimea and the damming of the perekop gorge canal are just two examples of the so-called good work done by this or similar units. it's not clear to me which eu governments have an interest in escalating tensions in this part of the world. please stop these attempts to start another senseless conflict and help restore peace to this part of the world. i understand that for some of my colleagues the sea of azov is a long way off, but please remember that this is a part of europe that is less than an hour's flight from romania or bulgaria, which is the eu territory. so i ask you, don't let the fighting in these places get as bad as it has in the recent past.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of russian operations and blockades of ships, the profits of the ukrainian azov ports of mariupol and berdiansk have fallen by 30% in the last period. he was also involved in the illegal 'seizure' of the 'donetsk people's republic' by the 'government of the donetsk people's republic'. russian actions in the sea of azov have a clear objective. further to economically and socially subvert ukraine. but military objectives are even more serious. they're building up positions for a possible attack on the ukraine. the russian military is building a naval base in the azov sea in occupied territory called obryv. russia's illegal operations in the sea of azov must be dealt with decisively. we can prevent further escalation by an international naval operation led by the united nations or the eu or by imposing sanctions on russian ports in the sea of azov. ukraine cannot be left alone.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam high representative, this is the fourth resolution on venezuela this year and we all know that the situation in venezuela is getting worse. the european union cannot continue to wait for the human rights situation to deteriorate further and further. what more do we need to convince ourselves? how many more abuses, more torture testimonies, more deaths of innocent venezuelans must we witness before the union decides that the situation has deteriorated enough to warrant a next step? first, we need concrete actions that have an actual impact. we need more targeted sanctions and that cover close relatives as well as the state oil company. secondly, we must cooperate internationally. that is why i call on the european union and its member states to join the call from countries such as argentina, chile and canada for the international criminal court to open an investigation into the crimes committed by the maduro regime, and thus put an end once and for all to the impunity that has prevailed in venezuela for so long. it is late, but there is still a little time left to act effectively. we need no further proof of the suffering the venezuelan people are subjected to to take this step.
madam president, i would like to say to present tusk that he has heard a lot of sharp words here today and i must say, president tusk, some of those were unfair and i would not share in them. in fact your task is not an easy one. i know that you have to cope with prime ministers, presidents, and if i look at the czech leadership, one of the most critical to the european union in terms of the abilities to solve migration issues, then the same leadership is undermining issues or instruments such as frontex. i must say that looking at you, i even envy our polish friends that they have a politician like you. but the fact is that parliament is an ally for you. you can come and you can tell us something different from what we read in the media. you can come and you can consult ahead of the european council, you can use us and the views that are practically unanimous, in the european council. you can provide leadership and you can really deliver. at the moment, whether it’s migration, whether it’s governance, we are failing. the council is failing. one last remark: i am really ashamed that the council and the high representative are unable to say a strong word and a strong message and sanctions on the question of the saudi arabia issue. it is a shame.
madam president, let me just cover three issues which have already been discussed here, first of all concerning brexit. it is a pity that sufficient progress has not been reached but i still believe that in the weeks to come we will find a good agreement. it is essential that the eu27 keeps together as one and that we defend the clear interest of our members, especially of our irish colleagues. secondly, let me talk a little bit on taxation, as i am coming just for negotiation of the report of the committee on financial crimes, tax evasion and tax avoidance (tax3). this is an area in which the eu can bring enormous benefits for eu citizens. if we solve the outstanding issues in the tax regimes, this will bring better and fair competition to the market and we will gain the trust of our citizens and, at the same time, this will allow countries to reduce some taxes which are the most damaging for the economy. there are many very important files on the table, especially ccctb, cctb, vat reform and digital tax. while the council was able to reach some progress on some tax files, it seems to me that there is not sufficient progress on these dossiers and this is a great pity; it is a lost opportunity for europe. last, but not least, let me talk about migration. the number of irregular migrants has gone down. unfortunately, it seems to me that the efforts of the member states to find agreement and make europe more ready and better prepared for such a crisis in the future are also fading away and that is a very bad thing. we must get ready for future problems and we must solve the issues that we have been discussing for the last three years. so, also in this area, let me urge the council to move forward.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported the 2019 budget and i believe that it will ensure the guarantees we promise our citizens. it is about a safe europe first and foremost, but it is also about addressing the root causes of the enormous migratory pressure, particularly from the middle east and africa. we want to promote economic growth, increase competitiveness and, above all, support young people. i therefore welcome, in particular as a member of the committee on culture and education, the increase in funding for erasmus+ and horizon 2020. both these programmes have proven themselves and are being used effectively. it includes, for example, the discovereu project, which helps young people in particular to get to know the eu member states better. i am also pleased that a pilot project called jan ámos price has been approved, which aims to support teachers who teach about the european union.
mr president, i did not support this draft budget because i regret to say that i believe it sets a bad precedent on the eve of our agreement on the next budgetary framework after 2020. i think that if we are really serious about protecting the eu's external borders, then this should start to be taken into account in this financial framework, and we should do it in a different way than by devising more centralised authorities and agencies run from brussels. we should help, visibly help, the eu border states that bear the heaviest burden of responsibility, whether it's bulgaria, greece, malta, italy or spain. it would also be worthwhile to show symbolically that we can save. the fact that it is still not possible to establish a single seat of the european parliament in brussels has already been mentioned here. i can also imagine cuts in the budget for the european external action service, for example. but i couldn't support a budget set like that.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have supported the european parliament's proposal to restrict the use and ban the production of single-use plastic products. especially when we have affordable alternatives - cutlery, plates, straws, mixing sticks, balloon sticks - these are all things that can do without plastic. although other types of plastic, such as single-use, oxidized plastic bags, are also degradable, i still think that they need to be replaced and reduced. in the case of lightweight plastic bags, i acknowledge the maintenance of the exemptions for hygiene purposes and for the packaging of meat and similar foods. i also appreciate that the report does not ignore the problems of fisheries, which account for 27% of all waste.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report. i think the ban on single-use plastic products is a good move, because the low price and almost unlimited availability of these residues has over time made them more of a problematic waste than a useful aid, and we cannot effectively dispose of them today. this discovery has indeed become a nightmare. but the sad thing is that this revolution has kind of gotten out of hand, and it's really alarming how much plastic, combined with a lack of recycling ethics, is polluting our oceans, our environment. plastic pollution undoubtedly requires a global solution given its transboundary nature. and there is no doubt that action is needed, not only nationally, but also regionally and internationally. i understand the objections of many critics that banning straws, mixers or balloon sticks in the eu will not solve problems on the other side of the globe. but it's important to actually start doing something, because time is running out.
the next item is the topical debate (rule 153a) on evaluation of the lisbon treaty (2018/2888(rsp)). i should like to inform members that for this debate there is no catch-the-eye procedure and there will be no blue cards, so no blue cards will be accepted.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for inviting the presidency to your monthly topical debate. the council has not yet discussed the evaluation of the lisbon treaty as such. the council implements the treaty with a view to achieving results. we believe our focus should be on delivering results for our citizens, in particular, right until the end of the present term. be assured that the austrian presidency will be focused on this. on this i would simply note that the ordinary legislative procedure, which is now generalised after lisbon, works well – and i would like to thank the european parliament for the good cooperation – and that the relations between the council and parliament on the whole have indeed improved. beyond this, there is certainly a debate about the evaluation of the treaty and, more generally, about the future of the union. we appreciate that parliament has been working on several reports on certain aspects of the treaty. i am sure that in today’s debate a variety of views will be expressed, based on respective political perspectives. that said, i will listen to your debate attentively. thank you for this opportunity.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, frankly, i prepared for a debate about the lisbon treaty. i was waiting for mr zanni to go onto the lisbon treaty. he went onto many things, very interestingly, but not onto the lisbon treaty. i will stick to my brief anyway. the treaty is a reflection of what member states collectively want and require from the eu. they have come together and pooled sovereignty because they see there are challenges that no one member state can address acting alone. as jean-claude juncker said in the state of the union address this year, and i quote: ‘european sovereignty is born of member states’ national sovereignty and does not replace it. sharing sovereignty – when and where needed – makes each of our nation states stronger.’ end of quote. too often the discussion on sovereignty is a pretext for the question of how we can stop things, but the real question we should ask is: how can we act effectively and legitimately in the face of challenges or crises? i also want to react to some of the things mr zanni said. there is no imposition. every single member state has signed and ratified the treaty. you can’t afterwards say, ‘i’ve signed and ratified, but i will not apply the treaty’. we are based on the rule of law and that means that this union can only function if we can accept that those who sign and ratify the treaty also apply the treaty. if we have a problem with that, the commission can intervene and at the end of the day, it’s the court of justice that will rule on this. that is the essence of how we constructed the european union after the second world war. creating the impression that this is an imposition from outside is, i think, fooling your own people and it is irresponsible. it can create a certain feeling of ‘we’re being dictated to from outside’, but it is not a reflection of reality, and it is also hiding away your own responsibility. you have a responsibility vis-à-vis your colleagues in the council, vis-à-vis the european parliament, vis-à-vis the commission, but you certainly have a responsibility vis-à-vis your own signature, your own ratification, and i think we should be talking about that more. i also believe that if you look at the number of treaty changes we have seen over the years, you see that, given the complexity of the challenges and the complexity of working together and having to tackle issues no member state can tackle on its own, the need for decision through qualified majority voting (qmv) has increased. i hope we can use the coming time to look into areas where qmv can be increased, especially in foreign policy. if you have to take decisions on international human rights, or if you have to take decisions on commercial issues, i think qmv could be a helpful instrument. again, and i come from a country where the temptation of thinking that the veto was the best thing you had has sort of waned. people understand that a veto can only give you the instrument to stop something temporarily, but it doesn’t give you the opportunity to act, to actually do something proactively, and so i think the discussion of qmv will have to move forward. on issues such as taxation, there is no way we can muster enough strength against the huge corporations that can negotiate tax deals with individual member states that de facto mean they don’t pay any taxes if we don’t do this at the european level. we need to do this at the european level, and for that i think qmv would be important as well. i also want to mention briefly the task force on subsidiarity and proportionality that jean-claude juncker created last year. yesterday in the commission work programme, we set out in broad terms how we believe the task force needs to respond to the questions that were put on the table by member states, by national parliaments and by other stakeholders such as regional and local authorities. we will prepare this for the bregenz conference that will take place soon. the core of the issue is that we need to make sure that all those who in the end have to work with legislation are also involved in preparing the legislation, helping us to evaluate the legislation, to make sure that we avoid duplication, to make sure that we avoid unnecessary complexity. it is now also my experience that the issue is not, in general, should competences be returned from the eu level to member states? we've challenged everyone to give us some examples, and the examples are few and far between, but not really very concrete. the real issue we need to tackle is: how do we legislate? how do we do this? can we not do this in a way that is less complex, that will help local and regional authorities to have ownership of these processes? where can we evaluate existing legislation to make sure that we take out what is no longer necessary etc.? we should get out of this logic that the only thing we could do is do less. we need to do things europe needs to do, and we need to stop doing things that are nice to do. we only need to do what we need to do. i believe that if we start from that premise, we will understand that there is a tremendous amount we still need to do, and i couldn’t end my intervention without referring to the momentous decision this parliament took today to embrace the plastic strategy. it is now up to the council to do something that a vast majority of europeans want us to do, and they want us to do it now.
mr president, the treaty of lisbon is rightly considered to be a turning point in european integration. in particular, it has enabled the eu to function after the historic enlargement of the former eastern bloc in 2004. it has also enabled new forms of association between member states, including enhanced cooperation in the field of defence. but now, almost 10 years after its real effectiveness, we have to set the mirror. have we really brought the union closer to the citizens? are we more accessible? do we involve more national parliaments in decision-making? are we really strictly adhering to the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality? for me personally, there is only one conclusion: europe, which has now gone through several crises, needs to reflect. we cannot continue to act as if nothing had happened, and we would be putting the whole european project in jeopardy. i would very much hate for the only real outcome of the lisbon treaty to be brexit.
mr president, the treaty of lisbon does not provide for the balance of power, the mutual control of institutions that we normally use at the level of associations, state institutions and international organisations. let us start with the commission: under article 17 (1) of the treaty of lisbon, 'the commission shall promote the general interest of the union'. notice that the whole of the lisbon treaty does not say that the union should serve the people, it serves itself. we can back that up with other quotes. article 17 (3) states that 'the members of the commission shall be chosen in such a way as to ensure their complete independence'. completely independent of the citizens of the member states, of ordinary people. it expressly states: 'the commission shall exercise its functions with complete independence. the members of the commission shall neither seek nor take instructions from any government, body, institution or other body. this means that the commission is completely cut off from the people. a political system that does not take into account the interests of the people is considered an authoritarian system. some argue that it is up to the member states to decide what the commission is allowed to do. council: article 4 (3) of the treaty of lisbon states: 'member states shall facilitate the achievement of the union's tasks and shall refrain from any measure which might jeopardise the attainment of the union's objectives.' so states cannot promote their own interests and the interests of their citizens in the union. i will quote the president of the european commission, mr juncker, at this point. he told the assembly of heads of government, "stop listening to your constituents". we could go on like this, we could prove that the lisbon treaty is a totalitarian system similar to those in the communist countries.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i already said this morning that the origins of european integration is the wish of the european people to negotiate their differences around the conference table rather than on the battlefield. but if you look at europe today, the challenges we face are global challenges and the one question you can ask your citizens – and i am sure of the answer you’ll get – is, do you honestly think you can face the migration challenge on your own as a member state? do you honestly think nationalism is an answer to the challenges of economic change in the fourth industrial revolution? do you honestly believe that being on your own will make you stronger in facing the challenges of president putin or the challenges of a president trump, who wants to change the international system? do we honestly believe we will be stronger on our own? i don’t think there is a constituency anywhere in a member state that truly believes that, and i’m afraid the british people today are learning this the hard way. i believe that if we take that as a starting point, the way we transform our rules, the way we apply the treaty to face these challenges and to come up with real results for our citizens, is going to determine whether we’ll get support for this. i think debates about abstract notions such as sovereignty are distracting people or they are causing alarm. i do maintain that you can have a theoretical approach to sovereignty and to saying i want national sovereignty. theoretically, technically, yes, national sovereignty, but i think it was michael heseltine who said that ‘a man alone in the desert is sovereign [too]’. he dies of thirst but he’s sovereign. sovereignty should also be a material issue. does it give you the power to act and to change things the way your citizens want things changed? then the answer will be very clear: only if we act collectively can we shape the world according to the values we share in a world that is changing so fast. i wish that could be the starting point of our discussion about what we need in a treaty. there are still ample opportunities in the existing lisbon treaty to move ahead. let’s try and use those opportunities first, and if they are exhausted we can talk about treaty change. but we haven’t exhausted the possibilities that are on the table with the existing lisbon treaty. let’s do a great service to our citizens and use those opportunities to actually change the world in the direction they want.
i regret that not all of us have utilised the time for evaluation of the lisbon treaty, which was the topic of this topical debate, but of course there is freedom to approach it in one’s own way. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the court of auditors’ annual report – 2017 (2018/2760(rsp)).
president of the court of auditors. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as a former member of this house, i know all too well that the european parliament is currently going through a very busy phase. parliament is currently working at full speed to get a number of other pieces of legislation in place before the elections. i should like to thank you all the more, as president of the european court of auditors, for the time you have taken to discuss our annual report in the plenary. we have presented our annual report to give you our assessment of the state of the european union's financial management in 2017. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet the requirements of the budget. for 2017, as in previous years, we conclude that the eu accounts present a true and fair view of the financial position of the european union. as in the previous year, we are issuing a limited and non-failed audit opinion on the regularity of the payments underlying the 2017 annual accounts. in other words: a significant proportion of the expenditure we examined in 2017 does not have a material error rate. i am referring to expenditure based on entitlements, i.e. expenditure on programmes where beneficiaries receive payments if they meet certain conditions. these entitlement-based payments accounted for more than half of all payments from the eu budget in 2017. in addition, irregularities in eu spending have also continued to decline. the estimated error rate for payments in 2017 was 2,4%, after reaching 3,1% in 2016 and 3,8% in 2015. this shows that the financial management of the european union is clearly moving in the right direction, which - and i can say this very clearly - is due to the continuing joint efforts of the commission, the european parliament, the member states and the court of auditors. let me give a positive example of direct payments under the european agricultural guarantee fund, which accounts for a very large part of the corresponding mff heading. for these direct payments, we concluded that they no longer had a significant error rate. however, i would also like to point out that in many cases there is or has been sufficient information to prevent, detect and correct a significant proportion of the errors we have detected. if this information had been used by the commission or national authorities, an even larger proportion of the european budget would have had an error rate below the court's and the commission's materiality thresholds. in short, what we discovered could have been discovered by others. ladies and gentlemen, now it's time to take it a step further. the management and control systems have improved. for us as the court of auditors, this is now the opportunity to use these improvements for our audits. for 2017, we have tried a different approach in the area of cohesion. the most important change was that we reviewed and verified audits and controls that had previously been carried out by the bodies responsible for expenditure. with this new approach we want to provide you, the members of parliament, with better geographical and fund-specific knowledge for the whole of the european union in a cost-effective way. in the coming years we will extend this approach to other areas of expenditure, provided that - and i emphasize this - the necessary conditions are met, i.e. the data available to us are sufficiently reliable. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have read with great interest the results of the 2018 parliamentarian survey that you recently published. i am certainly optimistic about the future to see that eu membership and the euro have strong support among the majority of european union citizens. at the same time, there are also large disparities in support between countries. both annual budgets and the union's long-term budget are instruments of distribution. the decisions taken in this area often involve political complications for member states which they consider to have 'gone badly'. whatever the political outcome of the decisions for us at the court of auditors, it is important to ensure that the citizens of the union whether in bucharest, helsinki, lisbon, berlin or paris can see for themselves and thus have confidence that eu funds have not only been used properly but also in a meaningful way. we call this process "business review" or "performance review", and i can assure you that you will see an increasing number of these reviews in the coming months and years. this is a direction which has been consistently pointed out to the court in the numerous conversations i have had in this house, but also in many national capitals, and i think this is a very important task. ladies and gentlemen, the court has shown that various member states have difficulties in making good and timely use of european structural and investment funds. in this respect, it is to be welcomed that the commission has proposed a number of measures for the next financial framework which should help to make better use of cohesion funds. in the coming days we will publish our detailed opinion on the relevant legislation. at the same time, the european budget remains under heavy pressure, given the amount of payments the eu has committed to make in the coming years. these so-called commitments to be settled or rals are expected to increase even further by the end of 2020. we believe that this growing volume of commitments still to be settled must be a major focus of the next multiannual financial framework. the total budget of the european union represents only about 1% of the gross national income of the european union as a whole. it is important that the european budget is used effectively. at the same time, however, we must be realistic about what can be achieved with the resources entrusted to us. the european union can only win or retain the trust of its citizens if it actually meets the expectations it has created. we must show our citizens that the european union can deliver on its promises efficiently and in a way that actually makes a difference.
member of the commission. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. in the context of the annual accounts presented by the commission, the annual report of the european court of auditors plays an important role in the discharge procedure. we are grateful for the informed, objective assessment that the court presents to us today for the financial year 2017 and the commission's accounts. i believe that we can present parliament, the council and the court with good results in the implementation of the budget and the clearance of accounts, in the use of our budgetary resources. the court of auditors therefore also confirms improvements in budgetary management and its estimated error rate is lower than ever. i want to contribute to ensuring that we continue to learn from the experience and the constructive critical advice of the court and parliament and the council and that we are not at the end of a good development in budgetary management. the annual report shows that we are transparent in the implementation of the budget. the court's full audit opinion on the reliability of the annual accounts has now been issued for the eleventh consecutive time. the court recognises that the budget is an important instrument for achieving europe's political objectives and that it helps to bring real added value to the budget in the interests of our citizens. in the past year, we have added to our traditional long-standing tasks such as the common european agricultural policy and the still important cohesion policy, focused on infrastructure and the development of a high-performance crossborder infrastructure across the continent. we have funded more major research projects than ever before, and we have tried to tackle the migration problem, which has become a focus of attention in the last three years, not only politically but also financially. we believe that the european budget can deliver concrete and good results for our citizens, and we have done so in the past year. the commission also considers that controlling and further reducing the risk of error is a key element of its budgetary management. the commission has already made a number of proposals. our goal is to make mistakes avoidable in the first place so that we don't have to correct them in the first place. we are therefore working closely with the member states and with the beneficiaries. we provide assistance, training and helpdesks to ensure that shared management - beyond the european services on the ground - ensures the appropriate expertise in budget implementation. you can't avoid all mistakes. that's why we need robust correction systems when things go wrong. these corrections take place only after payment has been made, which is also due to the multiannual nature of the european programmes. we as the commission want to ensure that when we manage our budget, after the implementation of a programme, after the closure of a programme and after all the checks have been carried out, the remaining error rate is below 2%. we reached our target last year and estimate the remaining error rate at about 0.6%, i.e. well below 1%. i would add that mistakes can be traced back to fraud, waste and inefficiency. but there may be mistakes that are the result of negligence, that have nothing to do with fraudulent intent, corruption or disloyalty, and that still need to be corrected. the president of the court of auditors mentioned the commitments still to be settled and we also discussed payments at the interinstitutional meeting last week. we are monitoring the situation very closely, also because parliament expects it. we will make it clear in full transparency which commitments are still to be made. the sum of some eur 270 billion is not a surprise at the present stage of a multiannual budgetary framework, but is explainable. eu grants needed to implement programmes on the ground are disbursed to member states and other beneficiaries. we're not holding back money. but it should be borne in mind that the duration of many projects, from initial planning to construction, implementation and closure, extends over several years. this means that commitments may not be settled until a later financial year - and often after the end of the multiannual financial framework. this phenomenon also occurs in national budgets, but to a much lesser extent. the current state of commitments to be settled is not surprising, and the implementation of projects on the ground has picked up speed. i can tell you that the member states are now carrying out project selection on schedule, that the budget has now reached full speed, and this also applies to the implementation of the current 2018 budget. i am not going to go into detail. we are currently in the middle of negotiations with you on the next multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. i would like to thank the house - parliament - for its efforts to establish quickly a position which you intend to take in this house next month. the commission's proposals contain many elements which will bring about improvements in relation to some of the aspects identified by the court. the first is that the difference between the amount of commitment appropriations and the amount of payment appropriations should be reduced from the outset. secondly, more flexibility. third, n+2 instead of n+3 as it is now, so that the incentive to avoid delays increases, and then a stronger focus on performance and results. we need your support on these points and we want to include the opinion of the court. i would like to thank mr lehne, mr lazarou and your staff for the work the court has done to bring about further improvements in the management of european finances. it is my and our overall aim to have a budget that delivers results and real added value and is managed well and correctly. we need your constructive cooperation. we look forward to working constructively with parliament, the council and the court of justice in the forthcoming discussions on discharge for 2017.
we will now proceed with speakers on behalf of the political groups. i have to highlight that we are somewhat behind schedule – itʼs a long agenda this afternoon and this evening – so i will have to be strict on respecting the time slots.
for the ppe group. mr president, commissioner oettinger, mr president of the european court of auditors, mr lehne, i would like to thank you for your report. this year, as the commissioner has already mentioned, the discharge is being discussed mainly in the context of the debate on the next multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. why is this debate important? because the eu budget is the most important tool the eu has at its disposal to implement its strategies and objectives. if the budget is not used correctly, efficiently and without added value, then the eu is meaningless. i therefore see the need for fundamental budgetary and administrative reform. the need to simplify bureaucracy first. secondly, the reduction in the number of institutions and bodies. third, improving communication with the ordinary citizen, offering greater transparency. the eu citizen should understand, understand the internal processes, which should be much simpler and more readable. projects must also be better presented, they must have more added value, they must have visibility and, ladies and gentlemen, they must be sustainable. the european court of auditors, through the president, rightly warns that we must be realistic about money, not set unrealistic goals. instead, we need to build trust with successful projects and a strong long-term strategy. we want a clear vision from the new european commission next year of where we are going, what we want and what we have lacked so far. this vision should strengthen the remaining member states and take the wind out of the sails of the eurosceptics. the key to the execution of this mandate, and that is the last sentence, mr president, is that the member states have the necessary expertise to achieve european objectives.
once again, colleagues, i donʼt want to be impolite but i will have to come in when your time slot ends, so please try to avoid that situation.
for the alde group. mr president, mr president lehne, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, the 2017 annual report of the european court of auditors is the second in a series of reports to contain a qualified statement on the reliability of the operations carried out instead of a negative statement. moreover, the estimated error rate of expenditure from the european budget is 2.4%, approaching the significance threshold again last year. this means that more than 97.5% of european funds have been used to their fullest potential. the individual projects have proven to bring european added value and to contribute to the common political and economic objectives of the european union. i believe that further reduction of administrative burden and overall simplification will continue to contribute to reducing error rates and raising the living standards of union citizens. on the other hand, it should be noted that the overall rate of mobilisation of european funds under the mff was 16% in all member states, which is significantly lower than the previous period, when it was 22%. this brought the remaining commitments to more than eur 267 billion. i believe that it would be appropriate to focus more on the economic, efficient and effective use of these european funds, so that they do not become a mere statistical indicator of the ability of the member states to draw on the allocation allocated without surplus. the main reasons for the under-utilisation are, in particular, the late adoption of legal acts and the difficulty in introducing new requirements related to the new multiannual financial framework. it follows logically that we must learn from this situation and prepare the next multiannual financial framework in advance. because only timely and proper preparation and sufficient communication with beneficiaries can lead to an efficient, economical and effective investment of our common european resources.
the commission has already taken action on this. mrs. jamet, i have a question. do you think that we should do nothing, that it is better to wait and leave the market unregulated, without observing what will serve terrorism? do you think that's better?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am very much in favour of the adoption of this regulation, which is clearly targeted. it can't address the situation of greek archaeological sites, but i consider them a very important part of the measures, now, right now, that we're addressing to combat terrorist financing. it is important to remember that a huge amount of cultural artifacts come from the middle east, which is also the cradle of our civilization. and so, as one colleague said, it's sad to see the suffering of people who are fleeing the middle east, but it's also very sad to see the irreplaceable cultural values in these areas disappearing and being used to fund the islamic state and other terrorist groups. unfortunately, this is where the biggest problem with terrorist groups is. this year is the european year of cultural heritage, and it is precisely many cultural monuments from antiquity, from the beginning of christianity, that are the subject of illegal trafficking in non-eu countries, such as syria, iraq, and we understand them as part of the wider context of europe's cultural heritage. the european parliament's version of the regulation defines very well the different categories of cultural property, taking into account unesco's recommendation to apply the time limit for monuments older than 100 years to the most endangered properties. so this regulation, i think it's worth supporting, and it's going to be one of the possible tools to limit the financing of terrorism.
mr president, madam commissioner, the illicit trafficking in cultural goods is a serious problem within the eu, and on a global scale. it is important to step up the fight against this dangerous phenomenon, including by legislative means. it is therefore good that the european parliament's proposal for a mandate to negotiate in trilogue with the council represents an extension of the existing legal protection of cultural heritage in the eu member states to cultural heritage of third countries, as the rules on imports from third countries are not harmonised at eu level. in contrast, common rules for the export of cultural goods already exist in the form of eu regulations. as regards the import of cultural goods, only two specific restrictive measures are in force at eu level, in relation to syria and iraq. it therefore appears that there is a genuine general lack of adjustment, and quite a strong one. i am committed to the proposal that i have tabled, to breaking the link between the illegal trade in cultural goods and organised crime and the financing of terrorism, and at the same time to ensuring legal certainty for the legal market in works of art. the need for a coordinated and effective action at eu level is also driven by the fact that the competent authorities of third countries lack the capacity to combat illicit and illegal trade in cultural goods and are also often exposed to corruption or other forms of maladministration. it should be borne in mind that when cultural assets are removed from the environment, local people lose their customs and monuments or places of worship and memorial. in order to ensure the effective application of the common rules, it is also appropriate that imports of cultural goods of particular value are subject to uniform controls on entry into the customs territory of the union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the sad truth is that war, in addition to the many other terrible crimes that accompany it, leads to the plundering of cultural heritage. the czech republic has had its experience of this, too, when it has to ask an unnamed european union state to lend us its own property for a limited period. but the problem of cultural heritage plunder today has another, darker side, and that is that it is related to the financing of terrorism. it is no longer enough for terrorists to trade in drugs, weapons, and people, they are now trading in precious artifacts, robbing future generations. at first glance, it may not seem very important, human trafficking is of course a much more serious crime, but monuments are often symbols that are associated with our identity. cultural heritage is one of the fundamental components of civilization and belongs to the cultural memory of mankind. terrorists have no culture and do not belong to civilization, and therefore they should not profit from monuments in any way, and we must prevent them from doing so by any means.
the rapporteur to the committee on agriculture. mr president, commissioner, thank you for your instructive words. i am convinced that the european parliament has succeeded in making a number of important points. first, it is the department for the registration of veterinary medicinal products from the human medicinal product registration. and i would also like to highlight the way in which the fees paid by pharmaceutical companies to the ema for obtaining and maintaining a union authorisation for veterinary medicinal products are reimbursed. in this respect, the specific needs of smes have been taken into account, and a separate procedure for the authorisation of veterinary medicinal products is introduced, separate from the procedure for the authorisation of medicinal products for human use, as i have already said. and this new system of centralised registration should provide a higher guarantee of expertise and efficiency. we have therefore ensured that the ema has sufficient financial coverage and the european parliament has also pushed for regular reporting on antimicrobial resistance and also for alternative testing methods. all of these are advantages, i think, very obvious, and i'm very happy that we've gotten this result.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i support the european parliament's report on the regulation on veterinary medicinal products and i thank mrs grossetête for her work on this compromise. it's about animal health, but it's also about human health. we can't separate the one from the other. therefore, if we are to effectively combat antibiotic resistance, then the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry must change. i therefore support the proposal to restrict the use of antibiotics for veterinary purposes. this restriction must be accompanied by other measures, in particular improving farming conditions, promoting research and reducing red tape in the introduction of new products. it's about reciprocity. i think it is essential that meat imports from countries which do not ensure the same restriction on the use of antibiotics will not be allowed. otherwise, this measure would not be effective enough for the european union and would be discriminatory for our farmers. i hope that this regulation will be adopted and implemented properly.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me thank the rapporteur for the hard work he has put into this document. in my view, this is an absolutely key measure in the transition to clean mobility. without this document, we will not be able to achieve even a fraction of the ambitious objectives we voted for last time in the dalli report. i therefore regret very much the approach adopted by the austrian presidency to the debate on the directive, which is in no hurry to conclude it. it is not at all clear that we will be able to conclude the document in this legislative period, and without massive public sector support, the market for clean vehicles cannot be opened in time and widely enough. i certainly welcome the reasonable definition of a clean vehicle in the text adopted. what i don't like is the over-setting of the 2025 targets on electric cars only. the solution adopted by the committee does not take sufficient account of the billions of investment spent on infrastructure for lpg and cng vehicles, which have slightly higher co2 than the 50g adopted but significantly lower all other pollutants than conventional vehicles. if member states have invested billions of public money in these technologies over the last few years, it is not possible to punish them for this activity today. i would also like to ask you to reject the initiative to include construction machinery. it is a pressure from a narrow group of lobbyists, whose purpose is not to make life easier for the environment, but to fill the pockets of the producers.
mr president, first of all i would like to appreciate your generosity, because i was to replace you in the chair a few minutes ago, and thanks very much for doing the overtime. i think that, having been a shadow in the committee for transport and tourism (tran) for the alde group, i can subscribe to what mr deli has submitted on behalf of the tran committee. but let me make maybe two or three somewhat different remarks, because i can subscribe to basically nearly all that has been said. i think that we need to perceive this as an issue which still needs a mindset change. we still are working through legislation which is correct. we still need to sort of impose, we still need to motivate, but it’s not yet genuine. and if we look at the policies, one policy, one regulation, one directive, one piece of legislation will not make a difference. i think that we need to basically harmonise the policies on the european level, on the national level and on the municipal level. that is something that requires a mindset and also stimulus and, let’s say, motivation, not just thresholds. iʼm sure that we can manage.
mr grzyb, i must say that at the end of your words i already started dreaming about clean vehicles and energy efficiency on railways and in aviation. i think we still have some things to do. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 25 october 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on promoting automatic mutual recognition of diplomas, tabled by petra kammerevert, on behalf of the committee on culture and education (o-000084/2018 – b8—0415/2018) – (2018/2838(rsp)).
i think we can agree with the need for automatic recognition of higher education qualifications in other member states. the objectives are in line with what is happening in the bologna process, which has a link to the emerging european education area, and should be further strengthened. we also support the idea that there should be automatic recognition of qualifications at upper secondary level for the needs of further study in another member state. the european union needs a better framework for the recognition of learning outcomes and qualifications than the one currently offered by the lisbon convention. the commission should therefore clarify its precise intentions. its draft council recommendation is addressed to the member states, but the european parliament plays an important role here and cannot be left out. as regards the council recommendation itself, i think it is important to define the term learning agreement better, since in some parts of the text it refers to tertiary education and in others only to secondary education. our oral question thus rightly points to a number of other aspects, such as the fact that the commission should have an overview of the bilateral agreements on the recognition of qualifications between individual member states. in short, we are moving towards making the energy that the european union puts into erasmus+ and others a meaningful use.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you again for this discussion. open debate and dialogue, of course, is the best way to build trust and the commission will continue to support measures that will help to build that trust, which have been suggested by you here this evening. mutual trust in the quality of the education system of each single member state is very important. this, along with the continuous focus on high quality education, is the basis of automatic mutual recognition of diplomas and learning periods abroad, so i want to assure members that the commission will continue to work with member states in this direction. we have already achieved a lot, but much more still needs to be done, as has been explained here by many members. we need our young people to be able to live in a european education area, which does not hamper their free movement as learners, and we have received a strong push to do more from our heads of state and government in the council conclusions last december. we are responding in a very concrete way to give effect to these concerns and this push. i’m sure i can count on the support of all members of this house to keep this momentum up.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled in accordance with rule 128(5). the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 25 october 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the grave lack of implementation of the eu reach regulation and use of non-tested chemicals in the eu (2018/2887(rsp)).
mr president, reach requires industry to manufacture, import and use chemicals safely. to do so, sufficient information on hazardous chemicals must be available. it is a fact that many chemicals have been placed on the eu market, sometimes in very high quantities, without sufficient information on the risks they pose to human health and the environment. however, a wide range of test methods are currently used and efforts should be made to avoid testing on laboratory animals and to give preference to alternative methods of testing. in this context, it should be noted that the implementation of reach legislation, including the proper testing of chemicals, is a competence and responsibility of the member states. each member state is obliged to set up control mechanisms, including sanctions, for infringements of the provisions of reach. the european chemicals agency also has a role to play in this respect, liaising with the national supervisory authorities and alerting them to any deficiencies identified. that's the way the whole system is set up, and i'm convinced that it's set up well, i don't see any reason for revolutionary changes. the correct way is to apply the existing rules consistently. i want to speak in defence of reach, which i consider to be the most advanced and comprehensive chemical legislation in the world. the eu's example has also inspired many other countries around the world. eu industry now produces chemicals that are safer for citizens and the environment. our task now is rather to ensure that eu producers are not placed at a competitive disadvantage compared to non-eu producers.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the speakers who have expressed concerns in relation to this issue, and to assure mr eickhout that we are not ping—ponging at all with the council. we are just out setting out the facts of the situation, mr eickhout. the issue of non—compliance of registration of dossiers is not unexpected and was foreseen by the decision—makers with the compliance check process. this is the reason why the second review was carried out and, arising from that review, there were recommendations made and i just want to tell you about some of them that have been implemented. so it’s not that there’s nothing happening. the european chemicals agency (echa), with the support of the member states and the commission, has been working on the effectiveness and the efficiency of the process. the commission has requested echa to significantly increase the efficiency of the evaluation procedures by 2019 – that’s not far away – by identifying reasons for non—compliance and developing the necessary remedies to improve the procedures and the work—sharing with the member states. this is not happening in the best possible way at the moment, but we want to ensure that the processes do work – and can work in parallel – and, importantly, to address the groups of substances where appropriate. so concrete changes in decision—making are already taking place and a first 14 substance group compliance check decisions are in the final adoption stage in echa. the commission has encouraged as well, of course, the updating of registration dossiers by the first quarter of 2019 to specify further the situations that trigger updates, as well as to set precise deadlines. we have an implementing regulation, supporting the implementation of reach article 22, being considered by the commission and this work is ongoing. enhanced enforcement is very important and you and other speakers have raised this. so, by the first quarter in 2019, the commission will consider further measures that are necessary in order to ensure that we have better enforcement. the objective of the action is wider, but we will also address the issue of registration dossier compliance. the work of the german institute is very welcome. i stress though that the german institute’s project was established to estimate the data quality. it was not the legal compliance of the dossiers that it was asked to do. this is a matter for echa. nevertheless, it is a very valuable contribution towards bringing this issue up the agenda and ensuring that we all have to do better in order to make sure that the dossiers are registered and that there is full compliance with what was intended in relation to the reach proposals in the past.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for giving me the floor again and i thank you for your valuable contribution to this discussion. thank you, commissioner, for pointing out that it has nothing to do with finger pointing at each other, but there are some rules of different institutions in the european union and that is exactly what we are doing, and i think we shouldn’t lose sight that this is a good legislation and that we did already make a good improvement, that we have a database, but however, this does not prevent us from improving the implementation and that is exactly what we have tried to do during our presidency and i pointed out that we are organising discussions and also international conferences to raise the awareness, and with the help of the commission and with working together, i think we can improve the situation for all of us and for our health. i take this opportunity again to reaffirm that the presidency is ready and willing to work with the other institutions towards implementing any course or action that will be ultimately recommended by the commission. the presidency remains available for exchanges on the subject as needed.
the debate is closed.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the implementation of the medical devices and in vitro medical devices regulations has many interconnections. unfortunately, there are now more questions than answers on the part of both manufacturers, notified bodies and patients, and i have to admit that many of their concerns are quite legitimate. it is already clear that the new legislation brings with it an undesirable reduction in the number of notified bodies. this will mean curbing the entry of new technologies and limiting the availability of older resources. for example, in the czech republic, where i come from, we have only two notified bodies left and recently there were five more. austria has none of those. the remaining notified bodies are already drowning in work and applications and it is not enough to deal with them, let alone take on new clients from countries where no notified body already exists, thus slowly pushing medical device manufacturers from these countries out of the market. of the implementing and delegated acts, only one has been adopted, as far as i know, and even if i have missed one, it is an absolutely scandalous balance at this stage. in particular, in a situation where the first regulation will enter into full force as early as may 2020. before a notification can be made to the nando database, it is essential that the notification procedure of each member state is published on the website. there was no notification procedure published there a year ago. overall, there is a slowdown at european level and the transitional period for medical device regulations no longer seems sufficient. if the situation is not resolved, the patients will feel the results. and not to mention, up to 40% of the current european certificates are from britain. however, the eu will lose its notified persons there completely, according to the explanatory documents from the european commission with brexit. in addition, it is estimated that around half of the authorised representatives in the medical device sector are based in the uk. some have already announced that they will move their headquarters to the eu, but not all will. for these reasons, the entry of devices on the market will be very slow. i therefore have three sub-questions: first, the newly tightened requirements of the medical device regulation are based on the evidence based principle and evidence based on scientifically correctly interpreted facts. i would therefore like to hear from the european commission some evidence of its current calm. do the representatives of the european commission consider that the implementation of both regulations is proceeding successfully according to the timetable and that there will therefore be no major problems in the market after may 2020? can the european commission guarantee that there will be no temporary withdrawal of more medical devices from the market due to a lack of notified bodies and their capacity? has the european commission carried out any specific studies or in-depth assessments to support this conclusion and what are the specific findings? what statistics can the european commission provide to support these conclusions? are these statistics publicly available? secondly, the capacity of notified bodies is currently a bottleneck for the entry of medical devices into the market. is it true, as we often hear in the news, that the european commission prefers to eliminate all smaller notified bodies in order to reduce their number to about 10 and to concentrate on a few large ones? can you provide evidence for future capacity analyses? last summer, 59 notified bodies were under the old legislation, so how many do the european commission consider to be optimal and sufficient to ensure the functioning of the market? thirdly, harmonised standards and common specifications are one of the cornerstones of the mdr. as regards standards and their harmonisation for medical device regulations, a considerable delay is already planned. some important standards, such as the assessment of biocompatibility, will be harmonised only in may 2024, 4 years after the entry into force of the first regulation. why has this happened, and what is the plan to address this delay? i firmly believe, commissioner, that today you have a unique opportunity to dispel not only my doubts about your inaction, or the commission's inaction, but above all the doubts of the people who are watching this point, the states who are worried about not having enough quality and registered medical devices, and the patients who are desperately complaining that they do not know how this child of legislation we have here will work after 2020.
madam president, i have to say, just on the basis of what we have heard, that my mother and my parents also remember very much the communist period, which mr sośnierz mentioned, when there was a lack of basic medical equipment in czechoslovakia and i very much doubt that there would be a lack of it in poland, so this is a bit of an expression in the context of what mr sośnierz said. however, new regulations on medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices approved in 2016 help to ensure that all medical devices are safe and function well. this includes contact lenses, x-rays, breast implants, artificial joints, and so on. to this end, the new rules improve market surveillance and traceability and introduce stricter controls on medical devices. i am convinced that whether it is medical devices, cars or other products, there is a need to ensure effective supervision in the interests of our citizens. and from these new rules we should expect greater transparency, legal certainty for producers and importers, enhanced international competitiveness and also new innovation in this strategic sector. however, already during the three-year transition period ending in may 2020, it has become clear that the application of the mdr and the in vitro diagnostic medical devices regulation is facing problems and that some elements of the new system are indeed not being prepared optimally. this has been discussed here a lot, for example the problematic launch of the eudamed database, which is intended to integrate different electronic systems. the proper functioning of this database is very important, as it aims to improve access to information for the public as well as for healthcare professionals, for example to avoid multiple reporting requirements and to streamline or facilitate the flow of information between economic operators. i would therefore like to ask the commission, madam commissioner, whether the commission is really convinced that this database will work, whether it has created the necessary conditions for this and whether this database will serve the purpose i have outlined. this is particularly for healthcare professionals, but of course also for citizens who need to know whether, for example, their particular implant will be compatible with the airport's scanner. another problem worth mentioning is the lack of notified bodies responsible for the certification of medical devices. the commission should therefore address this situation without delay in order to avoid disrupting the supply of important medical devices to the market. i also expect the commission to improve coordination between the three dgs concerned so that the new system receives the necessary administrative support. (the speaker rejected the question that dobromir sośnierz wanted to ask by raising his blue card.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome the agreement that has been reached, which allows for greater control over imported cultural goods. the european parliament has contributed to the final form of this regulation, for example by adapting the categories according to the unesco recommendations for the most valuable cultural goods, where a licence of origin clause is required for goods already over 100 years old. the aim of this regulation is therefore to restrict the financing of terrorism, in particular from areas of conflict. the european parliament also reduced a certain bureaucratic burden, so it is not a matter of restricting trade but of restricting the illegal import of cultural heritage for the purpose of financing terrorism.
mr. chairman, i can do it in half the time. i just wanted to say that i didn't vote for this press release because i really think, no matter how noble it may seem, that the money raised should be used to improve infrastructure. such a levy, such a financial burden and whether or not it is introduced should really be left in the hands of the national states and this is exactly the field, exactly the issue that the european union should not be getting involved in. so i don't see any reason why we actually voted on this, and that's why i obviously didn't vote for it.
mr president, my country has been through both nazi and communist dictatorships, so we know both extremes, left and right, very well. if we're going to talk about extremism, i'd really like to see both sides of the coin, including left-wing extremism. and then we have extremes of a different kind that are emerging in europe. there's a new anti-semitism, and if you look at where it's being fed and fed, you might look at the labour party in the uk, the traditional left-wing party, and its leader jeremy corbyn. so that also needs to be condemned, and finally, there's islamic radicalism, which leads to terrorist acts, and these terrorist acts have killed the most people in europe in recent years. all the terrorist acts we've seen here have been committed by islamic radicals in recent years. so if we want to deal with extremism, please, let's deal with it in its entirety and not pick and choose from it. that is why i did not vote on this report.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr commissioner, when the european commission presented its winter package proposals in january 2016, it was clear that it had just started a long marathon of very demanding work. the challenge was to achieve a wording of the legislative proposals that would be acceptable to the european parliament, the european council and the european commission, while at the same time allowing the european energy and climate change objectives to be met. i am convinced that europe not only has its long-term share of responsibility for the global environment, but also, unlike many others, has the means and potential to be the main driver of these changes. i believe it is no coincidence that today's discussion of the clean energy package, and indeed today's plenary session as a whole, starts with the energy efficiency directive, because this is how we put the 'energy efficiency first' principle into practice, and i believe that most member states will follow this trend in their energy policy making. on the other hand, we didn't all share the same vision at the beginning about how ambitious we should be in energy efficiency. often, and it was by interpreting the results of impact studies differently, or using other sources of mathematical cost models for energy efficiency measures, we differed greatly. but the european parliament has always been among the leaders in promoting an ambitious european climate policy. as elected representatives of the people of the european union, we have a full responsibility to find effective measures which i believe the citizens expect from us. we entered into negotiations with the council in the spring with a requirement for a binding 30% energy efficiency target by the end of 2030, whereas the council supported the commission's proposal at 30% in a non-binding format. we had very long and technical discussions about the cost of the measures being introduced, their return and their impact on economic growth. i have always been convinced, and i remain convinced, supported by the results of impact studies and a number of analyses, that despite the initial costs, these energy efficiency measures will have a very positive impact on economic growth, employment and on reducing the european union's dependence on fossil fuel imports. i am pleased that after very difficult negotiations and many rounds of trialogue we have managed to reach a compromise of 32.5%. i would of course like to see that figure increased, after all i have clearly supported the 40% figure repeatedly in the european parliament, but let us remember that 32.5% was a big concession for the council. there was also a lot of discussion about the so-called article seven, where we finally reached a very good level of 0.8% of final energy consumption. this is very ambitious, more ambitious than the original proposal of the european commission. i would personally like to see transport included in this article, which in the end did not happen, but i trust that the member states will act responsibly in this respect. i would also like to conclude by mentioning the issue of energy poverty. as you know, our political group has been a long-standing supporter of the idea of fighting energy poverty on this soil. this has recently made it possible to observe that the problems of people who cannot pay their heating or energy bills are increasingly resonating among politicians at all levels. i am therefore very pleased and i consider it a great success that we have managed to significantly strengthen this aspect and to motivate the member states to prioritise investments in housing for the most vulnerable groups in their savings planning. the draft directive will be reviewed in 2023 in the light of the implementation of the climate agreements and also in the light of the progress in innovation and technology. we agreed that we would not be closed to higher ambitions, and i believe strongly in those higher ambitions. in the climate agreement, we committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by at least 40% by 2030, and increasing energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way to do that. i believe that by negotiating energy efficiency legislation we have indeed created a huge opportunity not only for our environment, but also for european industry, services and citizens, including the poorest groups, and for our competitiveness in a world market that is increasingly under threat. i would therefore be very pleased if the european parliament could approve this agreement by a large majority tomorrow, so that all our obligations under this directive are clearly defined.
madam president, commissioner, i am pleased that the trialogue has recognised what i believe to be overly ambitious goals for substantial change. i would particularly emphasize energy efficiency. in this case, acceptance of the originally programmed targets would imply incredibly high investment costs and huge price fluctuations. i am also pleased that we have managed to reduce the obligations arising from the so-called 'governance' and to keep the energy package as close as possible to the original package: that is what 'governance' is all about. it's not that much of a shift in the climate. it remains essential for me to ensure that the security and reliability of electricity supply are the responsibility of the member states. the member state must therefore also retain the necessary powers and decision-making powers to ensure the security and reliability of electricity supply. the role of regional or european organisations and their acts must remain advisory, without decision-making powers. the same goes for the energy mix. only the member state must retain the right to choose the energy mix and at the same time the ability to benefit from it. this includes the obligation to bear the disadvantages of that choice. a member state should not be obliged, but only able, to shoulder the costs of energy mix choices in neighbouring member states in solidarity.
madam president, the clean energy package is really one of the most important and significant pieces of legislation of our mandate and i’m very glad that i have been able to participate in the deliberations. it is absolutely necessary to modernise and shape the energy market, that is for sure, especially if we want to succeed in global competition, but at the same time, we need to focus on the other side of the coin: reducing consumption. it has dropped but, at the same time, we have new technologies, electro-mobility, other sources, renewables, and we obviously will have to focus on further reducing consumption. for me, the question is energy efficiency, an energy efficiency policy first, definitely. i would appreciate it if we could focus on that and i invite the member states to implement, as soon as possible, as thoroughly as possible, the clean energy package, with an emphasis not just on the opportunities in terms of technology, renewables, etc. but also on lowering consumption.
madam president, i would like to stress that europe is founded on pride in its diversity, on the diversity of cultures that enrich us all, on the sharing of our knowledge and, of course, on the wisdom and experience of our ancestors. respect for minorities within the european union is therefore one of the absolutely essential building blocks of our community. i therefore welcome the steps that will lead to an improvement in the status of minorities, the status of foreigners legally residing in our territory, and will effectively prevent discrimination. of course, we must not forget the importance of education, the importance of preventing attacks on these minorities, and at the same time we should also ask ourselves what we are doing to ensure that - each of us - minorities are treated in the sense of the law, in the sense of decent behaviour. not only us, but also the municipalities, regions, the state and of course the european union as a whole must be asked to cooperate.
madam president, i would like to thank my colleague, mr bogdan went, very much for this report. he pointed out that unfortunately not all member states were on the same page when it came to digitisation, even within the european union. this is even more true in developing countries. for example, sub-saharan africa is the worst off in terms of digitization and internet accessibility. and it is in these developing areas that digitisation presents a great opportunity for economic and social development. individual member states should therefore integrate this area of digitalisation into their national development cooperation strategies. many areas are doing very well, not the number of cell phones or the internet, but it's very geographically imbalanced, and that's where we need to make a change. i would like to draw attention to the danger of the misuse of personal data, the misuse of the internet to spread radicalism. this is another area where the european union can set a good example.
madam president, i would like to stress that the reduction in the amount of money spent on education is a bad trend that must be reversed. i agree with the proposal to increase the proportion of funding to this sector and consider it a step in the right direction. in addition to the priorities set out in the committee on development's proposal, i would like to highlight one more fact, namely the crucial and neglected importance of tertiary education. this education is really important for the development of any region, not just the disabled, but the disabled all the more. without quality higher education, particularly poorer regions will not be able to cope with the brain drain, as these brains will naturally move to places with higher education. without investment in tertiary education, european universities will not be attractive for researchers to work, which may mean that europe will no longer be able to compete with global players in technological development. i want to emphasize that we are already seeing this trend and there is a real need to confront this trend and prevent it from getting worse.
i support this report on european union development aid in the field of education. after all, education is a basic human right, education is the key to personal success, and it is also the best tool in the fight against poverty. so we have to work to make education available to all children, especially where it is not yet available, where it is not of high quality, where children cannot be educated, which is africa in particular. i also support the objective of increasing each member state's share of investment in education and training in development cooperation by 10% by 2024 and by 15% by 2030 if necessary. they're the right indicators. there is a lot of talk about the need to help the countries of origin in the fight against migration, and investing in education would be the best tool here. i also want to mention the long-distance adoption program, which many citizens contribute to.
madam president, these days we are commemorating the centenary of the end of the first world war. we commemorate this to ensure that the millions of dead, the millions of victims, are not forgotten and to remind the younger generation of the main reason why we have the european union as an area of peace. in 1914 people also did not believe that any war could be, in an age of rationality and progress. the royal families of europe were intertwined by kinship, and who would want to go to war against their own? but nationalism prevailed. in 1918, they were convinced that this war was the last, that nothing like this could ever happen again, and yet in 20 years it could happen again. today we live in a time of peace, but peace is not a given, and many young people tell me that they cannot imagine war, they are convinced that it is not possible. that's why we need to remember the millions who died in both world wars.
madam president, arcelormittal is buying the italian steel mill ilva. the european commission investigated this acquisition and ordered the company to sell some of its other plants. it has decided to sell the ostrava steelworks, which employs over 7,000 people in my moravian-silesian region. the risk of closure of the mills for the region associated with the sale is enormous, as it is currently facing the decline of coal mining and the insolvencies of many other companies, which have already led to the loss of thousands of jobs in recent years. all the trade unions in the ostrava steelworks strongly protest against the choice of the buyer of liberty steel. their main arguments include a breach of the conditions of sale under european legislation concerning the obligation for the buyer to have financial resources, proven knowledge of the field and the incentive to develop the company being sold as a viable competitive force. if you, as the commission, have decided that you want to intervene in this sale in any way, please do not let part of my republic, part of my region go bankrupt just because we sell it to someone who simply cannot afford it and will do nothing about it.
madam president, i would like to come to a point which i consider to be a real danger to our future, and that is the question of pesticides and their use. pesticides are useful servants, but they can also be very harmful masters when they get out of control. in the united states, california is already discussing a major restriction on the use of pesticides within a half mile of schools and kindergartens. there are now several studies that indicate that pesticides are harmful not only to the development of children but also to the development of the fetus itself. therefore, it is recommended that pregnant women be included for future regulation. although more research is needed, these early studies could be alarming. pesticides have been linked to autism spectrum disorder, as well as to the incidence of adhd and increased risk of parkinson's disease. so let's create a really responsible policy for the future. pesticides may be useful, but utility cannot be built on a healthy developing society. we will also have the opportunity in the near future to show what we mean by pesticides on our european continent, because the report is already being discussed in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
madam president, i’m a central european, but i will not speak like one at the moment: i will not say whether central europe is treated well or badly. i want to say something different. the multiannual financial framework is an opportunity: an opportunity to reform the policies and address the proper challenges in the right way. i am sure that commissioner oettinger has done a very good job. i’m not that sure about some of the commissioners in terms of their ability to have reviewed and revised some of the policies and provided the right accent, so that was probably not an easy debate in the commission. at the same time, i need to address the council and say that this is not about being forthcoming to the expectations of public opinion in terms of savings, without providing solid arguments as to why we are making this or that saving. we are talking about the need to implement policies to be competitive – politically and economically – on the world scene, and we are talking about new challenges. we want to finance it with the same budget. we need a serious revision and a serious review and we need political courage on the side of many of the prime ministers and presidents. we are not talking about individual policies; we are talking about our abilities and our potential in the next six years. some people in the council are not getting that message. parliament will be firm on these issues. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rules 162(8))
blue-card answer. – colleague, i was not talking about individual policies, i spoke about commissioner oettinger, and i stand by that. we have heard him here before, we heard him in the political group and i think that basically, the principles and also the aims that he has, i would subscribe to. what i would be critical of basically is the ability – and this is what i said of some of the individual commissioners – and yes, whether it’s common agricultural policies, cohesion funding, whatever – i mean, there are other policies – i think that this is not just primarily as important as it is about cohesion, agriculture, it is across the spectrum, and this is the issue; the future of the european union, our abilities, including these policies.
mr president, i have supported this report because i really do consider it very important for our future. energy efficiency is indeed a key requirement for our common future. we cannot waste resources, i mean we must be conservative in our daily lives, conservative with resources, of course with people, with the landscape and certainly with natural resources in the energy sector. if we don't use our existing resources efficiently enough, then of course we're going to need more and more resources. the fight against climate change simply cannot be done without this self-restraint. innovation needs to be encouraged and as far as the targets that are mentioned, i think the result of the trilogue, i.e. raising the indicative non-binding eu efficiency target to 32.5% and raising the real energy saving rate to 0.8%, is realistic, not dramatically ambitious and in addition there is some national flexibility allowed, see the possibility for the state to exclude the transport sector from these targets. all of this i needed to emphasize is the importance of support.
mr president, i also voted in favour of this report. in my view, the european union has one of its biggest debts in the field of the energy union, and this is the seventh report or opinion we have discussed in this respect. i must stress that for the czech republic, for example, access to energy resources and good governance of the energy union as such are absolutely crucial for our future. we don't have much of our own energy resources. so i'm glad we've moved forward in this debate. after all, today was quite a blast about energy savings, about lower emissions, about the responsibility of the union, but also of the member states, to help the vulnerable, including states, not just businesses, households and individual citizens. so i really welcome this report and i'm glad we're moving forward. perhaps we should move faster, but i firmly believe that we will see the end of our mandate, or the next one, with a full energy union as a means of protecting vulnerable states.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe we must reject the legalization of corruption, judicial reforms that undermine the division of labour, the use of violence against peaceful protests by citizens, the suppression of civil society and the pressure on free media. i was also in that spirit in the debate with the prime minister. the european parliament should not, however, call into question the right of citizens to express their views in a referendum. i also oppose the establishment of a mechanism consisting of a regular mandatory monitoring of compliance with the principles of democracy and the rule of law. that is why i believe we should adopt a resolution such as this, in which the european union responds to threats to democracy and the breach of the rule of law. to avoid unnecessary red tape, we are calling on the romanian government to listen to its people.
mr. chairman, i've given a lot of thought to how i'm going to vote on this. i think the european parliament should be restrained, not too imposing its vision of democratic governance. on the other hand, we have clearly defined rules, both in the treaties and in specific provisions that simply speak of the rule of law. it is simply a value that should not be discussed in the form of denying its basic principles. and when we saw the really disproportionate intervention of the police force and the response of the romanian government, it raises very serious questions, and it's not just about the demonstrations, it's really about the intervention in the media, in the rule of law. when we read that forty-seven prosecutors have been dismissed, that the minister of justice is demanding the dismissal of the chief public prosecutor, these are indeed things that raise questions from the standpoint of the rule of law. and i was obliged to vote in favour of this resolution because it is reasonable and i want to hear the answers from the romanian government. we haven't received them yet.
in writing. you are a symbol for me of a strong politician who has made a great impact on the stability and prosperity of the eu. let me just stop at the migration crisis, because it's not over, and we're going to be dealing with it for a long time. you spoke to her, but i have to say, not enough for me. i think we have to call things by their right names, including the fact that the eu has failed to stop the flow of illegal immigrants. nearly 2 million immigrants in 3.5 years pose a security risk. people are afraid of illegal migration, for example citizens and politicians in the czech republic refuse to show any solidarity with refugees, and many refuse to accept unaccompanied children. you said yourself today that schengen is not possible without protecting the eu's external borders. it was a great disappointment to me that you did not understand the need to combine solidarity and security. it wasn't until 2016 that the priorities were reversed and you also put safety first. you are very right to ask for the eu/turkey declaration, which is ongoing but will require additional financial claims. we want people fleeing violent islam, the taliban and dictatorial regimes, to conform to our tradition of humanism, human rights coupled with duties that apply to all citizens. freedom and solidarity cannot exist without responsibility and security.
for the ppe group. mr president, as the shadow rapporteur of the group of the european people's party, i would like to stress that georgia has great human, cultural and economic potential. despite geographers who draw the border along the main ridge of the high caucasus, i consider georgia a european country. naturally, it is a member of the european union. its membership of atlantic structures such as nato is also natural. our report highlights a number of successes achieved in implementing the association agreement. if our report is critical on some points, for example in the parts concerning the judiciary or media freedom, our comments follow from the desire for a better future for georgia. in my opinion, we need to fight cases of selective justice with consistency. i am pleased that the group of the european people's party has actively advocated the consistent use of the terms occupied territories of abkhazia and tskhinvali region and refuses to use euphemisms. the russian federation is violating international law by occupying georgian territory.
the question posed by the blue card. - mr. speaker, you mentioned that we should not interfere in the presidential election, and yet you have clearly condemned one of the presidential candidates a moment ago. do you think that is in line with the mission of members of the european parliament?
mr president, i was elected as an mep in a country where a totalitarian regime has been in power for 40 years, ruled from moscow. so i understand very well the situation in georgia. its strategic location is an important asset for the russian federation, and i therefore fully support the close partnership between georgia and the european union. in recent days, i have had the opportunity to meet in person with the members of the georgian parliament. it was clear that they were concerned that the european union would not ease its support to georgia, including the financial support they desperately need for the reforms they need to carry out, including the fight against corruption. today's presidential elections show that georgia is on the right track and we want a pro-european president to be elected. despite all the shortcomings we find in georgia, i want the european union to stand by georgia.
mr. president, this may come as a surprise to many of you, but the european union, by the way, nobel peace prize winner, is the second largest arms supplier in the world after the united states. in some cases, arms have been exported to, for example, saudi arabia and the united arab emirates and have been used in yemen. meanwhile, yemen is in the midst of a war that is creating the world's worst humanitarian disaster. the european parliament, that is all of us, have been calling for an arms embargo against saudi arabia for two and a half years and nothing has happened. only people are still dying, and that's thanks to the weapons from the european union. i am convinced that the only directly elected institution of the european union must say this: the european union must not export arms to warring countries. the european union must not support war, or we will again be left wondering where the migrants at europe's borders have gone, and the european union must always promote peace and cooperation above all else, and must not sell these values to the highest bidder. that's what i'm asking you to do.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for the debate and also thank you for the many interesting questions you have tabled. let me reiterate that the nexus of transparency and accountability is the sense of the eu common position, and at the larger global level of the arms trade treaty. the eu common position supports greater convergence through a number of common elements and information sharing. as such convergence remains, by definition, always work in progress. undoubtedly, as stressed by rapporteur lösing, greater parliamentary scrutiny at the national and eu level can further incentivise convergence. let me close by signalling once again my appreciation of parliament’s role in keeping this important issue on the european agenda.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 14 november 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the report by andreas schwab, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council to empower the competition authorities of the member states to be more effective enforcers and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market (com(2017)0142 – c8—0119/2017 – 2017/0063(cod)) (a8-0057/2018).
mr karas, my apologies, seriously it’s not just about us in the chamber now, it’s about the colleagues who will come in for the other items, let’s be fair. i think that the point was clear so thank you.
mr president, i would like to say in general that the empowerment of the european institutions should be conditional on the transparency of the process, and i would like to say in relation to this proposed directive that we should convince citizens and the member states of the independence of each european institution, that is to say, that it respects the rules laid down, including the procedures for investigation. this concerns in particular competition and the rules on fair competition. the common fight against cartels and other forms of free market cheating is one of the european union's successes, where it has been possible to harmonise the european union institutions with local organisations, thus creating a fair environment for all. cooperation with the member states is also important in other respects. it is important to explain to the citizens of the european union that the role of the european union in this case is not to police the member states, but primarily to cooperate with them. in a time of rising populism, which often benefits from scepticism towards the european union, it is important to do this work and to bring brussels' actions closer to citizens, not just to the member states.
madam chairman, i would like to say at the outset that this idea may have been a good idea, but it may turn out to be a nightmare, or, rather, a good servant but a bad master. i have not understood from the commissioner's speech whether any european regulation applies to it. i understood that this was more a matter for the member states. i'm kind of afraid of this rule. i think this virtual currency could undermine our monetary rules, the global order, and i think that's not entirely happy. there are also environmental impacts, it's estimated that mining these virtual currencies alone consumes as much energy as denmark consumes all year round. one czech pirate mp even mined these cryptocurrencies in his mp's apartment with czech taxpayers' money. we need clear rules, we need transparency and we need to protect our consumers, our citizens against speculation and manipulation. i think that the global response is also important and the european union should definitely be the leader in that.
commissioner, i am very pleased that we are actually getting to this debate after the final text was approved by the governments in july. i think we're gonna be commenting on that in the final text for the first time. i would like to thank you for your statement that this is not a legally binding document, i think the hysteria that has been created around it is really inadequate. what i think is important to emphasize is that this global compact affirms the status of refugees, which is different from that of illegal economic migrants. i have a number of positive objectives in the global compact, and there are some 23 of them, including vigilant border controls, the obligation to prove identity, and so on. on the other hand, i think it is the council's fault for not acting in unity, and the strength and weight of the european community would be much greater if the council and the member states were united. and secondly, the final text, i think in many places, actually confuses the distinction between refugees, regular, voluntary, managed migration and illegal migration. i think that's a fundamental rebuke to this document.
mr. chairman, i just have a technical note. my colleagues are not here because there is a vote on the terr special committee at the same time. and unfortunately, this vote, the vote on the 2,000 amendments, will be over in five minutes. so i'd like to ask you all if you could come out here after the colleagues arrive. commissioner, i would like to say on this subject that we all know that the european union has failed to respond effectively to the migration crisis. we have not been able to cope with the uncontrolled influx of migrants and refugees, who often enter the european union without proper documentation and checks. in 2015, i repeatedly visited refugee camps in greece, italy, and on my way through the balkans. it was clear that the european union was not able to effectively distinguish between those who were entitled to asylum and those who were not. after the entry into the european union of third-country nationals, all those who had a so-called syrian passport, even though it could be forged, were considered refugees. this situation must not happen again. the tool we were supposed to respond to the whole crisis was supposed to be humanitarian visas. i think this is a very good idea, but unfortunately we are halfway there again. this idea needs to be worked on and refined.
mr president, in the context of humanitarian visas, i think it is essential to emphasise one thing. in accordance with the judgment of the court of justice, member states are not obliged under european union law to issue humanitarian visas but are free to do so on the basis of their national law. so we're not talking about some mandatory mechanism, but about individual member states being able to analyze who is really a humanitarian refugee and who is just taking a chance to improve. this principle of voluntariness is refreshing and acceptable after years of embarrassing misrepresentation of mandatory quotas. the czech republic must decide for itself who it will grant a visa and who it will allow to enter the country. refugees must no longer support organised crime run by smugglers and be forced to cross european borders. they should apply for a humanitarian visa in the nearest safe country and await the decision of the sovereign state of a member state of the european union.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, allow me to begin by thanking my colleague, ms pilar del castilla, for her excellent work on the code. the code and berec are closely linked, and from the outset, i worked in coordination with ms pilar del castilla, and finally both proposals were successfully concluded in a joint trilogue. the code brings a number of new tasks for berec which needed to be reflected in this report. the issue of special voting rules in the board of regulators proved to be the most problematic point of the final trilogue and the commission was very helpful to us as a mediator. berec regulation as agreed by the hosts and the chapter originally agreed in the code on the regulation of calls within the european union. it would therefore not be fair to attribute this to the outcome of the berec report. in general, i appreciate the compromise on the code, i believe it will facilitate the development of high-speed networks as a prerequisite for 5g, as pilar del castillo mentioned here a moment ago. from the point of view of our political group, i am pleased that the resulting text leaves more flexibility to the member states in the area of spectrum and does not include single authorisations or the so-called double lock. back to the heart of the berec report the structure of the berec office and the berec support office was the result of a 2009 political agreement. now the commission has proposed to merge them into one large agency. as rapporteur, i initially tried to gather information from various sources on whether this dual structure was functional, and my colleagues and i also undertook a mission of the committee on industry, research and energy to riga. i'm not a fan of making major dramatic changes where something is working well, and positive evaluations here within berec have been strongly overwhelming. we also reflected concerns about the independence of the regulators' decision-making. we need real independence of regulators, both at the level of the member states and the european union. their distance from national governments and the european commission was therefore important. i therefore proposed to reject the merger of berec and the berec support office and to concentrate rather on minor improvements as discussed. nevertheless, the european parliament was divided on this fundamental issue, with some political groups favouring the merger proposed by the commission. finally, the new tasks for berec set out in the code, namely the newly introduced arbitration decision of the berec association, which would be legally binding, helped us to reach a compromise on the committee on industry, research and energy. consequently, berec would also receive legal personality. in the trialogue with the council and the commission, we have done the opposite there will be no legally binding decisions in the code, and we therefore maintain the existing structure and status of berec as an independent association of regulators. i am aware that not all colleagues are satisfied with this most fundamental point. my big thanks go out to all the shadow reporters, anyway. i think we have managed to agree on a reasonable modernisation of the rules so that berec can be efficient, can fulfil the new tasks of the code, contribute to the uniform application of the regulatory framework for telecommunications and open up the european union's single market.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – madam president, today we are giving our citizens concrete achievements. this 500—page law will mean a future of cheaper calls, safer citizens, faster internet, better access for persons with disabilities, and a final confirmation that internet access is no longer a luxury but a right. from 15 may next year, everyone will be able to make cheaper calls. international eu rates have been unjustly high for too long. the end of roaming in europe was a great success, but we stopped half way. i am proud and humbled to have led parliament to complete the final step in creating an eu where country codes are obsolete and where consumers can call anyone without worrying about the price. also, every citizen will now have a right to an affordable internet connection. as more and more services, including government services, go online, it is unthinkable to be without internet access today. the internet must be seen as a utility like electricity and gas. finally, i want to highlight the introduction of the mobile public warning system. in the 21st century, citizens should not have to rely on rumours to know what is happening in the case of an attack or emergency. there is much more, but i’m running out of time, so let me just thank the rapporteur, pilar del castillo vera, and all my fellow shadow rapporteurs who worked on this proposal.
madam president, i believe that we have agreed with the council on useful adjustments to the functioning of the association of european regulators berec and the berec support office, which will increase their efficiency and protect the independence of the regulators. i am convinced that the reality of the telecommunications markets has not made it necessary to make any major changes, but this does not, of course, preclude a debate on the future, on the contrary. i would like to mention one more important issue related to berec. the next step is to ensure that this smallest agency of the european union is strengthened in terms of staffing to provide full support to telecoms regulators. i therefore believe that in the context of the 2019 budget negotiations, the council will accept the relevant proposal of the european parliament. let me thank once again the cooperation of my colleagues, the shadow rapporteurs and all of our parliamentary team, including the assistants, advisers and administrators of the committee on industry, research and energy, because the cooperation has been excellent and very complicated. i would like to thank my colleague pilar del castilla again, because working with her has been really excellent. i would like to thank the bulgarian presidency and, on behalf of the commission, commissioner gabriel and the director-general of the connect directorate-general, robert viola, because they have really made a very good proposal and a very viable one for the future, and i believe that it will be a very successful work for the future, which will bring very good and useful connectivity to the citizens of the european union as time goes on.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the european code on electronic communications, which the european parliament has agreed with the member states. it not only updates existing legislation to adapt to new technologies in a rapidly changing environment, including the introduction of the 5g mobile standard, but also brings positive improvements for end-users. i am glad that the social democrats have succeeded in ending the long-standing effort to fix the price of calls from one eu member state to another, because the different price levels have no justification in the internal market, as was the case with the pointless roaming, which we have also managed to abolish. this is of course good news for consumers in our country, as czech operators are among the most expensive eu providers of electronic communications among the 28 eu member states, according to european surveys. i personally consider it equally important to strengthen consumer protection, including for the most vulnerable. the new code guarantees that consumers with disabilities will not be disadvantaged in terms of the quality of service provision, its price or access to telecommunications services in general.
madam president, i regret to have to criticize here again the emissions proposal from the workshop of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, but unfortunately, this time too, the committee has not presented a rational document. the proposed targets call for 50% of the sales of zero-emission, so-called electric, urban buses in 2025 and even 75% in 2030. however, these objectives completely ignore any elementary logic of public transport being different from both passenger and technical neutrality. the charging of a single heavy vehicle requires a minimum power of 40 kw. for comparison, the usual reserve of a single household is 3 kw. if electric buses are to become the backbone of urban public transport, the garages of a typical transport undertaking will have a consumption comparable to the neighbourhood of the city in which they are located. another thing that we prefer not to talk about here is the safety of electric vehicles. the batteries contain two components necessary for combustion and are difficult to extinguish by conventional techniques. but in every heavy-duty vehicle, unlike a personal battery, there are several tons. the proposed emission targets in the environment, public health and food safety committee text are twice what analyses suggest is realistic and will lead to higher transport costs, higher consumer prices or an increase in the age of the fleet.
member of the commission. – madam president, i have listened carefully to the debate today and i have heard a broad range of positions, in particular on the level of ambition and on zero— and low—emission vehicle incentives. i would like to stress once more that the commission proposal is balanced, ambitious and fully in line with our climate objectives. some interventions are calling for higher ambition levels in 2025. with 15% in 2025, the commission proposal strikes the right balance between being realistic and ambitious. we have based it on a solid impact assessment because a 15% target can be achieved using technologies that are already available on the market but not yet widely deployed. today we have also heard calls for setting a binding and higher target for 2030. let me please remind you that while the 2025 target can be met by deploying readily available cost—effective technologies, achieving a more ambitious 2030 target would require the implementation of new technologies that are not yet on the market. there is currently a lack of robust information on how the performance and costs of those more innovative and prospective technologies might evolve in the medium term, and this creates a risk that a binding 2030 target would not be set at the most cost—effective level right now. the commission has therefore proposed to review the 2030 aspirational co2 emission targets in 2022 once sufficient certified co2 emission data has been collected and more information is available. some interventions also called for incentives for the deployment of zero— and low—emission vehicles, an objective that the commission supports. a crediting system based on a benchmark was considered in the impact assessment. however, it was not retained, in particular in view of the very low penetration of zero— and low—emission vehicles in the fleet and of the scarcity of robust data on such markets. adding a malus would mean that manufacturers meeting the co2 targets would actually be penalised if they did not meet the benchmark. instead, the commission proposal contains a super—credit system which also preserves the environmental integrity of the co2 target. co2 emissions standards cannot be set yet for buses, as the co2 emissions are not yet certified. however, as set out in the 2022 review clause, buses will be included in future standards. but, at the same time, this proposal can help to speed up the market uptake of zero—emission bus technologies by including then in the super—credit scheme. there is a competition distortion between manufacturers which is addressed through a cap. the proposed revision of the clean vehicle directive will be a key tool to steer public authorities’ decisions in purchasing zero—emission buses by creating a larger market for those vehicles. a platform has already been created to help cities make joint public procurement, and the european union budget will also continue to support the financing of a new fleet of clean buses. however, certain zero—emission buses mandates for manufacturers will not be proposed. we heard today some interventions calling for credits for alternative fuels. the commission proposal does not include such credits. our approach is based on the principle of clear responsibilities for clear actors. manufacturers are responsible for designing vehicles so that they achieve the co2 reductions required under the legislation. however, they cannot be held responsible for the type of fuel that is actually used in its vehicle or take advantage of it. more precisely, one vehicle is not necessarily linked to one fuel type as in many cases the same vehicle can use several fuels, either conventional, biofuels or other low carbon fuels. this being said, it does not mean that we are not taking action to decarbonise emissions from fuels. the eight—year reform will ensure decarbonisation of electricity production and the renewable energies directive will ensure that more low—carbon fuels will enter the market. in this context we need to apply the principle of better regulation and avoid double regulation and double accounting for incentivising renewable fuels. some interventions today raised concerns about the proposed level of the penalties, considering them too high and possibly putting at risk the economic situation of a manufacturer exceeding its targets. firstly, ensuring compliance is absolutely necessary for the effectiveness of any regulatory requirements. secondly, to be in line with the objectives of the regulation, financial penalties have to be set at a level that exceeds the marginal cost of meeting the targets. the penalties need to be a real deterrent. it should not be less expensive to pay penalties than to invest in technologies to meet targets. thirdly, the approach taken by the commission is to set an equivalent level of stringency from an environmental point of view, as compared with cars and buses. finally, this issue will be part of the review of the effectiveness of the legislation in 2022. to conclude, i would like to thank all of you for the interesting debate. i am looking forward to the upcoming vote. the commission is also confident that the council, under the leadership of the austrian presidency, will be able to reach swiftly a position so that the discussion between the two co—legislators can start this year. it is absolutely essential that the final political agreement between the co—legislators can be found before the end of the term of office of this parliament. i trust that this will be possible thanks to the dedication and hard work of the two co—legislators. again, my thanks to the rapporteur for a good, fast and ambitious job.
president of south africa. – mr president, it is indeed a great honour and a privilege to have this opportunity to address this gathering, particularly in the centenary year of the birth of nelson mandela, the founding father of our democratic nation, a revered statesman and a committed internationalist. we celebrate the centenary knowing well that nelson mandela does not belong to us as south africans. he belongs to all of us, and indeed to the world. (applause)he is one person who, through his life and deeds, proved to all the people across the world that championing human rights and doing what is right in terms of embracing universal values was the right thing to do, and that is precisely what he dedicated his life to. he belongs not only to those who lived through the tumultuous events of the last century, but he also belongs to the generations that are going to follow all of us. we live in the world that nelson mandela and many other great leaders of his age made. we are grateful to the european union and to the people, as well as the leaders, of europe for the tributes they have paid in many different ways to nelson mandela on the occasion of his birth, and for this we thank you from the bottom of our hearts. we say thank you for honouring nelson mandela in the way that you have. (applause)it is indeed a testament to the universal appeal of his vision that he is as revered on this continent as he is across the african continent. we remember with the nations of the world the centenary of the armistice that marked the end of the first world war. we pay tribute to all those who lost their lives in that great human tragedy, including the many south africans of all races who also fought in that war and who perished on these foreign shores. (applause) twenty—six years ago, in the city of maastricht, the leaders of europe signed the historic treaty that would mark a new era in the continent’s history. now, more than a quarter of a century later, that affirmation of democracy, of liberty, of respect for human rights, of fundamental freedoms and the rule of law continues to endure. these timeless values are indeed beacons of hope in our troubled times, for – despite our greatest efforts – the world today is blighted by conflict, poverty and underdevelopment in a number of poor countries. there is still a lack of meaningful social progress, unrest and displacement. the spectre of the resurgence of racism and xenophobia, cloaked in the mantle of nationalism, is rising and is causing a great deal of concern in a number of places. unilateralism is on the rise and threatens, in many ways, to undermine our collective commitment to democratic values and respect for human rights. now, more than ever, we turn to our great leaders for strength and inspiration as we seek to resolve the most pressing challenges of our times. we recall their words and their actions as we reaffirm our commitment to democratic values and upholding the rights of every human being. it was the great statesman and friend of the anti-apartheid cause, olof palme, the former prime minister of sweden, who said, ‘for us, democracy is a question of human dignity. this includes political liberties, the right to freely express our views, the right to criticise and to influence opinion. it embraces the right to health, work, to education and social security’. this view of democracy resonates with nelson mandela’s vision of a global community of nations that affirms the centrality of human dignity and strives through all means available to improve the human condition. just four months after his release from prison in 1990, nelson mandela paid his first visit to the european parliament to receive the sakharov prize for freedom of thought. he used this occasion to thank the leaders and the people of europe for their contribution to the liberation of south africa. i also stand here, like nelson mandela, and thank the people of europe for the contribution that they made to end apartheid, and we say thank you for all the support you gave us during the dark days of apartheid. thank you very much. (applause) nelson mandela also used the opportunity, as he addressed this european parliament, to call on the nations of europe to continue to stand by south africa as we sought to rebuild our country. we are here today to confirm that, indeed, the nations of europe answered the call that nelson mandela made with conviction and generosity. we are here today, following in the footsteps of nelson mandela, to say that we would urge you and we would call on you to continue supporting south africa as it has embarked on a journey, not only to reform itself, but to build a new south african nation from the ashes of apartheid. we thank you for continuing to support us. (applause)the european union was born out of the need to end the historic divisions on the continent, to create a firm base for the construction of a new europe rooted in solidarity and cooperation, and to contribute to global peace, security and development. the countries of africa have similarly embarked upon a new path of peace, development and transformation. the african union’s agenda 2063 provides a programme for integration and prosperity on a continent that has been wracked by division, exploitation and strife. nelson mandela was an ardent advocate for pan—africanism, and he believed that the continent could only reach her full potential if her peoples were united. in pursuing this goal, there are many lessons we can draw from the european union’s path to integration, to economic and political union, and to achieving social progress. south africa notes the tireless work of the european parliament to ensure that the provisions of the lisbon treaty on the eradication of poverty continue to underpin the eu’s approach to external development cooperation. since 2007, south africa and the eu have enjoyed the mutual benefits of a strategic partnership that continues to play a meaningful role in our country’s economic growth. it covers over 20 sectoral policy dialogues on diverse issues from development cooperation, science and technology, health, climate change, trade, education, skills development to peace migration, security and human rights as well. an integral part of this partnership are the interparliamentary meetings between the south african parliament and the european parliament. these meetings have indeed played a crucial role in strengthening south africa’s, as well as european, relations, contributing to a strategic partnership – a partnership that is based on equality, shared values and issues of mutual interest. allow me to express our sincere appreciation for the contribution that the european union – and in this case the european parliament – have made not only to the development of south africa, but also towards the achievement of progress across the african continent. nelson mandela led south africa in its peaceful transition to democracy, but he had a bigger dream: an africa at peace with itself and the world. in his lifetime, he supported the african union’s effort towards conflict prevention and resolution, peaceful building, as well as post-conflict reconstruction. he would have joined us in applauding the eu’s support for the au peace and security architecture and its steadfast support for efforts to silence the guns on the african continent for good. he always argued that lasting peace and security on the continent will not be possible without economic development. without opportunity, without investment, without thriving economies that enable us all to enjoy our place in the sun, we cannot hope to have political and social stability on the african continent. we therefore welcome the support of the european union for africa’s development needs through initiatives such as the european external investment plan, the economic partnership agreement and the new africa—european alliance for sustainable investment and jobs. we should strive to ensure that these approaches are developed and implemented in line with agenda 2063 of the african union. we should seek to ensure that these developmental initiatives support the establishment of the african continental free trade area and africa’s overall industrialisation infrastructure development, as well as economic transformation. we need to work together, as the countries of europe and africa, to develop sustainable and humane responses to the challenge of irregular migration. this is a challenge that europe has had to deal with in recent years. so, too, has south africa, and several african countries have had to deal with this challenge as well in a number of ways. we need to work together to address the root causes of irregular migration, which include poverty, inequality, unemployment, economic exclusion and competition for scarce resources. this should be informed by the principles of solidarity, compassion and an unwavering commitment to the human rights of all the people of the world. africa is the cradle of humankind. it is rich in land and water, abundant in minerals, and blessed with a young and vibrant population. it is the next frontier of growth, of innovation and of social progress. to realise this potential, the people of africa are in the process of uniting themselves. africa will continue to strengthen the bonds of partnership and friendship with the citizens of her sister continents and, in this case, her sister continent europe. it is therefore a matter of great satisfaction and promise that our partnership with the european union is as strong as it has been enduring. it is grounded in responsibility, respect and mutual accountability. the nations of the eu are a source of investment, trade, skills and knowledge, which has worked with us as south africa in our quest to grow our economy and improve the lives of our people. as we look to the future, we continue to count on the strength of this partnership between our countries and our peoples. as we advance forward to address the many challenges that our country faces – the challenges of unemployment, of poverty, and of inequality – we rely on europe to be our partner. right now, our country is in the process of transforming and reforming itself. we are seeking to create a south africa that is conducive for investment flows. a few weeks ago, we held an investment conference that attracted a number of european—based companies to come to south africa, and we were particularly overjoyed when many of them declared that they will continue to invest in south africa. we were able, at that conference – and another conference that followed – to raise usd 26 billion that will flow into south africa, and we are grateful for the support that we have enjoyed also from europe, for that vote of confidence in our economy. (applause)it is this collaboration and partnership that we seek – a collaboration that has bound south africa and the countries of europe together in a pact to never again return to the excesses and divisions of the past. as south africa, we are dealing with a number of issues that have to do with policies, policies that will consolidate south africa and make our country more stable. we are in the process of dealing with the question of land reform. land reform is one of those challenges that our country has had to face over hundreds of years, where the indigenous people of south africa were denied access to land, and have over the years been yearning to have access to land. we are now at a stage where we are engaging in a dialogue – an overarching dialogue among the people of south africa, those who own land and those who don’t own land – to see how best this important resource can be utilised to develop our country. through this, the dialogue is leading us to a point where we are seeking to find solutions that will be inclusive and that will enable all south africans, as we continue to consolidate our nation and to work together to resolve this problem. we have said very clearly that this problem of land will be resolved through adherence to the rule of law, through adherence to our constitution, and we will utilise the lessons that nelson mandela taught us with regard to resolving problems. we will resolve this problem in an inclusive basis, respecting each other’s human rights, respecting each other’s hopes and aspirations, and making sure – like we did when we resolved the apartheid problem – that we resolve it with a view to building a nation from the ashes of apartheid. this we shall do, because that is what nelson mandela taught us. i can assure you that we will resolve the land issue in line with the values that are enshrined in our constitution and, when we do so, we will have an all—inclusive solution that will make all the people of south africa work together and move together into the promised future that we see ahead of us. (applause) unity and partnership, as well as solidarity, are the principles that have underpinned our cooperation across two vast and different continents out of dark histories and into a promising new dawn. south africa, africa and the european union are bound by shared values of democracy and respect for human rights. we share a commitment to the ideals of free and prosperous societies, societies in which all persons live together in harmony with equal opportunities. we owe it to our great forebears, leaders of the calibre of nelson mandela, to focus on what unites us and not that which divides us, and to focus also on what benefits all of us and not what enriches and benefits just a few. we owe it to the leaders who are our forebears to build a strategic partnership that endures, that flourishes, and that – above all else – advances the cause of humanity. we thank you for your friendship, we thank you for your solidarity, we thank you for your partnership, and we thank you all for your support and for your continued help in everything that we are doing to rebuild the south african nation so that we, too, can enjoy the type of progress that you, as europeans, have achieved. thank you very much. (sustained applause)
that concludes the vote. colleagues, i understand that maybe for you there is a reason for an exchange of views but to those who are not participating in the explanations of votes, please leave the chamber and show respect to your colleagues. once again. those who are not participating in the explanation of votes, please leave the chamber. colleagues, would you like to show some respect to those who want to participate in the explanations of vote? please leave the chamber.
mr president, i voted in favour of the european parliament's position on the negotiation of the next financial framework of the european union. i consider the overall budget level of 1.08 % of gdp of the european union to be realistic and moderate. i believe that citizens do not expect us to increase the volume of funds dramatically, but rather to spend them effectively on real priorities such as border protection, security and defence. i also support the idea of tripling the funding for the erasmus programme, and i agree that there should be no reduction in the funding for cohesion policy. on the contrary, i am opposed to the inclusion of the so-called child guarantee in the european social fund plus. as regards the revenue side, i agree with the requirement to tax large digital companies operating across the european union market.
mr. chairman, i did not vote for this press for several reasons. i'll name at least two. one of those reasons is the question of the european union's own resources. it is perhaps no surprise that our group is fundamentally opposed to creating more of our own budgetary resources, whether by any new taxation or otherwise. the european union is not a state, so it does not have its own budgetary resources and its budget is to be strictly, directly and closely linked to contributions, in particular those from the national states, from the member states. the second reason why i did not vote in favour is the overall structure of the european budgets. if we are serious about protecting the external borders and if we are serious about increasing expenditure on this chapter, this must also be taken into account in the overall budget restructuring, and unfortunately this has not happened. so i'm down and out.
mr. chairman, georgia is very important strategically and geopolitically. my political family has friends in the georgian political scene, we have partners even in the current georgian government, and we think that the european union should pay due attention to georgia, not least because this country has become a kind of model example of russian pressure some time ago, and it is good to continue to monitor and monitor the situation closely. that is why it is good that we are monitoring the implementation of the association agreement, that is why it is good that progress is being made here. when you look at the path georgia has taken since the collapse of the soviet union, it's truly remarkable what this country has accomplished. they certainly deserve the support of the european union and all of us for the future.
mr president, i was in moldova recently. this country is expected to hold parliamentary elections very soon after the new year. it is a country that is plagued by a number of ills, especially various corruption scandals and affairs that need to be carefully investigated. i have to say, from my own experience, from my own observation, that i feel that there is a lack of consistency, that in some cases the affairs are simply swept under the carpet, while in other cases, for political reasons, the exponents are subjected to great pressure. it's also a country that faces, let's call it, russian meddling, media manipulation. moldova has already taken some measures to counter this pressure, but this needs to be continued and, again, developments in the country need to be closely monitored.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, this is a very serious issue, and i am very happy to see that, judging so far by the speakers that have spoken, we have a very broad consensus here in parliament. the fight against disinformation, from my point of view, involves two main aspects. one is enhancing our resilience against those that are spreading disinformation and the other is appropriate education awareness, in order to be able to differentiate between what is really disinformation and what is not. if i look at these two main aspects, i need to say that on the first one, one should also emphasise the regulatory framework, and i did listen very carefully to you, madam state secretary and the council’s attitude. to be honest, i use that as an opportunity to say i don’t see it, for example, in the trilogue on the cyber security act. i am not talking about the presidency. i know it is a very tough task to achieve, but the mindset in some member states that co-decide on the common position has not changed. that brings me to the second aspect, and that is that education awareness is not just about citizens; it is about politicians. i very much appreciate what commissioner jourová has said and that is that the main threat is russia. if we don’t use the proper words then we will be failing, and i must say that, once again, i don’t hear that clear language from the council. there is clear evidence of that in terms of scale, coordination and also the stated willingness of the russians to do so, and it is increasingly dominant. the european elections are behind doors. they are absolutely key. they are also a test on what we have just spoken about and what we are tackling. a final remark, on the east stratcom. once again, i do appreciate what the commissioner said. it is understaffed, but it is doing excellent work. it needs a permanent budget and i would appreciate it if we could see more emphasis from the commission – i must say i was never impressed by the attitude of high representative mogherini in this respect: she can provide better assistance – but also emphasis from the council. that is key. they are excellent and we are failing to support them.
mr. chairman, free elections are not just about being able to choose from more than one candidate, but also about elections being free from misinformation and manipulation. and we are in a disinformation war with russia, a war that threatens our democracies. it is only in this context that we appreciate the vision of the schuman declaration, which states, among other things, that 'world peace could not be maintained without creative efforts commensurate with the dangers which threaten it.' that means in our situation, we have to put at least as much effort and resources into fighting disinformation as the adversary does on the other side of the barricade. so we're talking at least hundreds of millions of euros. but democracy is worth it. lies are cheap, but truth is expensive. now this disinformation is threatening the european elections. this is therefore a europe-wide challenge requiring continent-wide cooperation. i am glad that the european commission's proposals are geared to what we really need. in addition to data protection and financing controls, we need above all this: quality technical monitoring tools must be available in all member states. the european union must be able to coordinate these instruments. the national teams must have sufficient capacity at european level to disseminate news to counter fake news. this could be paid advertising on the internet or cooperation with public media. the dissemination of these verification reports must be in real time within the range of hours, this is crucial. we need special units with good algorithms and with a single task to detect, report and block disinformation. assistance through platforms like facebook or twitter is essential. but above all, we need the will, the collective will to fight against misinformation. i see that will in the european parliament, with certain exceptions, and i am glad of it.
mr president, the fight against disinformation should be a priority for political and security reasons for the member states and the european union as a whole. in the area of security, counter-intelligence expenditure should therefore also be a national priority, as interference in internal affairs, including election interference, is also a security threat to member states. i would like to point out that the czech republic, for example, has set up a centre against terrorism and hybrid threats to, among other things, detect disinformation campaigns, and i believe that this will be worthwhile for the czech republic. the forthcoming european parliament elections will be a test of our resilience, and there will undoubtedly be an attempt to influence their outcome in the same way as in the united states or in the case of brexit. russia will support an anti-european disinformation campaign. this hybrid warfare is more effective than violence in today's digital age, and we need to confront it by teaching critical thinking, media literacy and supporting public media. in this context, i would like to call on the european external action service to increase financial support for its component called stratcom. it came into force in 2015, and has uncovered three and a half thousand cases of pro-russian disinformation. however, this activity needs more financial support. unfortunately, stratcom's spending is incomparably smaller than russia's media spending.
mr. chairman, as early as 2013, the chief of the general staff of the russian armed forces, general valery gerasimov, outlined the principles of hybrid warfare. the gerasimov doctrine emphasizes that nonmilitary means can be more effective than traditional weapons. a word, properly chosen and applied, can be more destructive than tanks or missile systems. one of the divisions of this gerasimov hybrid army is influencing the electoral process. for example: the dutch referendum on the ratification of the association agreement between the european union and ukraine, the referendum on the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union, the german elections in 2017, the french presidential elections in the same year. disinformation has flooded and affected the presidential elections in my country, the czech republic. the victory of pro-russian president zeman helped greatly. stopping the artificial erosion of trust in democratic institutions must finally become a central point of the agenda of the member states, but also of the european union itself. i therefore strongly urge the heads of state or government and the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy to make a fundamental shift in the perception of this strategic danger at the december summit. i expect to see a very ambitious action plan with concrete steps. the next major target of disinformation campaigns and possible cyber-attacks will be the european parliament elections in may 2019. i would hope that we're more prepared than we have been in the past.
mr president, as the representative of a country which has one of the most dense rail networks in the world, i am very pleased to see the further deepening of passenger rights in rail transport. passengers should now be entitled to access to information and compensation in the event of delay or cancellation. they should be informed of their rights, the connections involved and other related matters before, during and after the journey itself. i am also pleased that we have succeeded in making rail transport more accessible to disabled people or those with reduced mobility. if we are to convince the citizens of the european union that train travel is a tradition worth continuing, it is necessary to raise the level of this transport and the rights of passengers. the european parliament should set an example in this area.
madam president, if it were a month ago, i probably would have structured my intervention today differently. i would focus on some of the provisions, highlight something and support some things, but in fact, i’m going to say something different. i have a relatively fresh experience. after the very long vote in the last plenary on thursday, i was to take a train from here to karlsruhe and then to munich and catch a plane. because we had a long vote, an unnecessarily long vote, i didn’t manage. then i missed the tgv, so i had to take several trains before i could get to karlsruhe, then stuttgart and then to munich – and you can already guess what happened with my plane connection in munich. of course, i spent some extra money. of course, my journey to the balkans was much longer, but i do still understand that my position is somewhat more favourable than that of thousands or millions of european consumers when they arrive, or when they end up in a similar position. i really believe that what we will be voting on is not perfect. i’m sure that many of us, on a number of provisions, would like to go further. i’m sure that there are still some question marks, but it is a major step in the right direction to provide railway passengers with completely different quality rights, and not just in the terms that i’ve mentioned – accessibility, etc. i think this is a good indication of what european legislation can bring a consumer.
madam president, i have often reflected on this report, what my severely disabled trainee, who uses an electric wheelchair, told me about her train journey. let me quote her experience: "for me, ordering a shipment means planning my activities 24 hours in advance. i live in a rural area, so i cannot decide, for example, to go to a nearby city in the morning to see my doctor. i can't schedule an evening movie in the morning and stuff. it would also welcome a reduction in the time needed to order transport, to keep platforms in good condition, to improve the organisation of transport for wheelchairs, to improve staff training and to facilitate access to information. in the end of his letter, he writes: "the right to travel freely and independently should be a right of each of us. i wholeheartedly agree with this and thank mr bogusław for taking these comments seriously and for supporting a number of my proposals, such as the reduction of the time needed to order assistance services.
for the group gue/ngl madam president, the proposed regulation implements the european union's commitments under the stockholm convention on persistent organic pollutants and the protocol thereto. the fundamental objective of these international treaties and, subsequently, of the regulation is to protect health and the environment from the harmful effects of this group of chemicals. unfortunately, some of the major amendments were not sent by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the proposal was therefore weakened considerably, which is why i have read them again in plenary. so i'm asking you, along with environmental and consumer organizations, to vote in favor of stricter limits for some other substances. there is a need to ban proven toxic substances as soon as possible, globally, in both new and recycled products. and it's the recycled plastics that are going to make these things disappear faster. i would like to specifically ask you to support the amendments that will ensure that european consumers are protected from exposure to these substances, in particular from recycled products, and thus promote a clean circular economy. i propose to update the limits for short-chain chlorinated paraffins as proposed in a 2015 study initiated by the german environment agency and for the amount of pbde that is in line with international obligations to limit persistent organic pollutants under the stockholm convention. it is absolutely essential, ladies and gentlemen, that the revised version of the regulation be adopted as soon as possible. it is absolutely essential if we are to protect european citizens.
for several weeks, i have been warning colleagues about the public health implications of the legislative gaps and that i do not agree that this is a mere technical adjustment to international commitments. on the contrary, it is a decision with a significant social impact, the consequences of which will be felt for decades to come. the eu's current approach to recycling and limiting persistent organic pollutants is toxic to the point of being toxic. especially if there are safer alternatives. if we want to guarantee the safety of the materials we recycle, we must first eliminate the amount of hazardous substances in the primary products, not put them back into circulation. and certainly not in the form of contaminated kitchen utensils or children's toys. for those of you who don't know, pops are substances that accumulate in the environment, from where they get into our food chain. in humans, they interfere with the functioning of the hormonal, nervous, and immune systems. unfortunately, it takes too long for us in the eu to ban these dangerous substances completely, which means that we will have to deal with their legacy for a long time to come. for example, next year the five-year transition period for hbcd will end. but we'll have this toxic substance built into our homes for decades to come. i think we can all agree that this is not a legacy we should be passing on to our children.
mr. chairman, many academics today are talking about us being in what's called a post-factual age. i mean, in a time when you can say almost anything and not even put the facts on the table. i think donald trump is a beautiful example of this phenomenon. not only do i often get the impression that he's a dream come true, but now it's primarily about what he does and what he says. in october, he announced that the united states would withdraw from the intermediate-range nuclear forces treaty with russia, claiming that moscow was violating it. by presenting evidence or calling for an investigation, trump is not bothered and he threatens. they say the road to hell is paved with good intentions. all too often, however, it is patched up by the actions of selfish political amateurs who overestimate their role in the international arena. no one can threaten peace and international agreements. peace is not a gamble, it is a care. and that is the signal that we as the european union must send.
mr president, the field of care services is undoubtedly important and will become even more important in the future in view of demographic trends. this sector is primarily the responsibility of the member states, which have an interest in improving the conditions for all workers in these services, whether women or men. it is the member states that must put the emphasis on the quality and accessibility of all care services. i see the connection between this report and the directive on reconciling private and professional life. in this area, i also support the inclusion of caring leave in the work permit, so that carers have the best possible working conditions. but the member states' competence in this matter must be respected. the gender perspective is only limited to care services. the report in this respect, i dare say, is not balanced and omits a number of factors that should be taken into account, because care services are really complex, they touch on other aspects such as age, such as vulnerable groups and other factors. i consider problematic, among other things, the calls for separate taxation of spouses, the widest possible concept of the family, the commission to regulate and control the quality of services, the establishment of a binding framework for minimum standards of working conditions in this sector and the guarantee of financial support for carers. these and other points, in my view, significantly interfere with the member states' competence. i would like to say that not only in my opinion, but also in the opinion of some of the group of the european people's party. but thank you for making this report a source of inspiration for our future work.
mr president, i would first of all like to thank my colleague, mrs merja kyllönen, for bringing this subject to the plenary, and as it turns out, it is a subject which goes across europe, which goes across political groups. it's a subject we all want to address. we can, of course, address it by saying in europe that we know it exists, but we should address it primarily by linking our healthcare capacities, and primarily by changing the fact that there is still no consensus in the european union on how to treat, diagnose and screen for lyme disease. the problem is, the diagnosis of the disease is not happening at the time we need it. patients are very often left with some other trivial treatment that doesn't work, and then the really expert treatment happens when there's really not much help and there's a lot of other problems. i would therefore like to ask, and thank the commissioner very much for saying that we will generally be looking at better research into this disease, better searching for causes, but also better searching for treatment. i'm asking her to do it, and we're putting the money into it, and we can't do it without it, and if we don't find it, we have no chance of changing it.
author. mr president, vietnam is a dynamic developing country with a promising future. as in china, however, there is a massive violation of human rights and freedoms under the rule of the communist party. we also see a paradox similar to other so-called communist systems - the absence of trade unions, the massive violation of workers' rights or the reliance of the media on political actors. reporters without borders index reports that in 2018, the media's reliance on the communist party even increased. there is virtually no free press, and any independent expression in the media is punishable by imprisonment in most cases. i also want to mention that the death penalty is still a hot topic in vietnam and it is all the more alarming that vietnam keeps the number of those sentenced to death secret from the international community. these are grave facts that we cannot remain silent about. getting china to do something is difficult, but in the case of vietnam, we have a tool in our hands. the signing of the free trade agreement between the european union and vietnam is due to take place. in this resolution, the european parliament shows that it is not indifferent to the situation of political prisoners, bloggers, activists, christian clergy and the masses of the population, who are monitored by the regime with the help of modern technologies. the european parliament will insist on improvements by vietnam, or it will not give its consent to the trade agreement. vietnam is a country that is paradoxically very close to me, because there are 100,000 vietnamese people in the czech republic, which is the largest community in europe. i would therefore like the european union to have good economic relations with vietnam. but it cannot be done without conditions, and i am also glad that there is a broad consensus across the political parties in the european parliament on this.
mr president, i would like to stress that vietnam has indeed made substantial progress in the past period, but it is important to remember that it is not really a free state, that it is by no means democratic. if we talk about one side, where there is no opposition, there are no unions, if we talk about the lack of freedom of the media, the lack of pluralism of opinion, on the contrary, even for a different opinion there are political prisoners, then it is clear that this is not the democratic character of the state, and nobody even doubts it. we have not only political prisoners here, but also religious prisoners. what more can we do? we have the tool of the trade agreement here, i think we should put more pressure on the vietnamese government. of course, our diplomatic efforts, our delegations going to vietnam, must also address these fundamental reservations. we can talk, and therefore we should really talk about these pressing issues in these delegations, and i of course support this resolution.
the author. mr president, the european parliament has already awarded the sakharov prize to cuban human rights defenders in 2002, 2005 and 2010. according to today's resolution, cuba remains a totalitarian state with a single communist party that does not bother to respect basic human rights. defenders of these rights, or just those who want to express themselves or assemble freely, are intimidated or illegally imprisoned. in october alone, more than 200 cubans were imprisoned in this way simply for exercising their rights under the universal declaration of human rights. the state authorities do not allow the existence of human rights organizations and prevent their representatives from traveling. religious freedom in cuba is minimal, and church leaders are under the supervision of state authorities. cuba has a strict censorship policy and does not allow any media other than state media to exist. this situation also holds us, the european union and its member states, partly responsible. we were the ones who did not insist on a clear conditionality of the application of the new agreement with cuba with respect for fundamental rights. however, even this shortcoming does not diminish our obligation to insist on respect for these rights in all the external relations of the european union, as required by article 21 (1) of the treaty on european union. the eu must therefore take a clear stand on the fundamental rights of the cuban people and seize all the economic opportunities that the new treaty with cuba has opened up. we can't be fooled into holding elections where independent candidates can't run. the maximum possible contact with civil society must be strengthened and all repressive methods used by the cuban state must be constantly pointed out.
author. – mr president, colleagues, this is not about spanish politics, and this is not against the political dialogue agreement, it is in support of the implementation. i know alberto navarro maybe longer than many of you spaniards in this hemicycle. he is an excellent diplomat, but the fact is that we are implementing the dialogue for already two years with basically no results, and this is something that we need to acknowledge. read the draft constitution. there is nothing about free elections there. read the draft resolution; in it there are provisions about basically any measures, any force can that can be taken. this is in fact in support of the cuban dissidents who are continuously harassed. this is in support of those, even the laureats of the sakharov prize, who are not invited to eu events. this is in support of the opposition that is to be recognised not just by the cuban regime but also by us. we should not be calling dictators friends, but we should be inviting these people to a dialogue. we should recognise them. it is not just a message to the cubans emphasising the need to implement, but also a message to ourselves. so yes, please, who votes against this resolution basically votes against the basic rights of these people.
mr president, i believe that the european union cannot afford to let up in its support for human rights, wherever they are. i was interested in the words of mr. urtasun, who asked why we want to join something that works. human rights dialogue works, but if human rights dialogue works, it doesn't mean that human rights work in cuba, if there are 130 political prisoners and others who are persecuted. i believe that the european union must lead this dialogue, but it must also be aware of the results. if there are no results, it is appropriate for the european parliament to speak up, to make it clear that we will not back down. political pluralism and free opposition is our goal, which we are pursuing in this matter. i hope the socialists do, too.
mr president, democracy is about dialogue and i think that dialogue is about exchanging our positions with each other. i think that the fact that this parliament has the blue cards in place shows that it is open to dialogue. dialogue is what can deepen democracy. that's why i'm a little surprised that a colleague from the communist party refused to have this dialogue with me. i think i know why you refused. because you've probably never been to cuba. you've never met people who are in opposition, and you've never seen opposition leaders arrested. i saw him, i saw the beating of people who had gathered to express their belief that human rights, democracy, freedom are something that cannot be exchanged for a pastry, as you do in many countries. it's one thing to talk about democracy and freedom, it's another thing to talk about democracy and freedom of living. in conclusion, let me say one thing to you: the blind is not the one who does not see, but the one who does not want to see.
author. mr president, commissioner, the european union has long been one of the largest and most stable partners and supporters of a young state like bangladesh. i think that openness to dialogue should be much greater, especially in the area of human rights. the european union must not turn a blind eye to what is happening in bangladesh. because, as part of the good governance and human rights group, we have a mandate to monitor what's happening in the country. yet, there is an abuse of governmental power in this country. the government is disappearing journalists and activists who speak out against it. i think that is absolutely unacceptable and that we must speak out against it repeatedly. journalists, activists, lawyers, human rights defenders, they are all currently victims of the regime. the resolution concerns two specific cases of a journalist and a lawyer who fought for human rights. both of these people have disappeared from the world, and no one knows where these activists are currently. there is a reasonable suspicion that the government is torturing or extrajudicially executing those arrested. we must urgently call on the government to comment on these cases and to engage in an active dialogue on compliance with international obligations. in particular, the right to a fair trial, the right to a defence, the right of access to a court, which must be respected. activists and human rights defenders are a very important part of any democracy and it is essential that they have a place in this system.
mr president, i consider it important that we meet here every thursday in strasbourg to discuss the human rights situation in other countries. i believe that it is necessary to ask the bangladeshi government why it is not improving the conditions of workers in its own country, it is necessary to know why the government has been intimidating and arresting trade union leaders for a long time and has not made fundamental reforms that would allow bangladeshi workers to fight for their rights. but at the same time, you have to look at our homes, our clothing stores. if we do, we have to ask why so many european companies still don't address the fact that their bangladeshi suppliers ignore the most basic social, environmental and human rights. the answer is obvious: why not go out and get a cheap job? the old rule of capitalism is to buy cheap and sell expensive, and there is no place for human rights and human dignity in this equation.
mr president, care services are naturally the domain of women, and that is why the report we adopted at the level of the european parliament was viewed in particular from the point of view of women working in care services. unfortunately, the vote failed to pass important amendments and to omit some provisions which are really misleading in this report and which violate the subsidiarity of powers of the member states. for example, i think it is totally inappropriate for the regulation and quality control of care services to be carried out at european level, for the legal framework of the care profession to be established at european level. so i'm sorry i couldn't support this report and stayed away.
mr president, i wanted just to inform the plenary that today it is red wednesday, which is the day of commemoration of those who are suffering persecution linked to liberty of belief – those who are persecuted for their belief, for their faith. public buildings are being lit in red, people are wearing red ties and other such things. there are hundreds of millions of people suffering only because of their faith. i wanted the plenary to commemorate this. (applause)
madam president, i certainly agree that we must increase environmental protection and protect it from the growing influences of civilization the growth of transport, manufacturing activity and the general impact on natural resources is enormous at the present time. but on the other hand, we're getting new technologies and science and research is bringing incredible advances, knowledge and help with technologies that are friendly to the environment. on the other hand, we must be very careful in defining our climate goals and strategies for the next decade. if we set limits too high, which today seem very nice and ambitious, we could achieve very negative developments in many areas. i am also convinced that we must have an integrated approach, as was finally achieved in the programme of the platform for the regions with a disability. thank you very much for this activity, commissioner. i am in favour of strong support for science, research and innovation, which alone will enable people to behave in a friendly and sensible way towards the environment.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i will start with a quote from the mario monti report: ‘the single market is less popular than ever, yet it’s more needed than ever.’ so 20 years since jacques delors declared the single market, people now take for granted the benefits it has brought our citizens: from cheaper and safer products to the right to work freely in any member state, the four freedoms of the single market are the crown jewels of the european union. it is something to treasure and to protect. the daily benefits of the european union can be found in the single market. i do share your conclusions, your regret that after 25 years the single market is still not complete. the four freedoms, especially on services, are not fully implemented. so we must do more. i believe the european council must commit to a new pledge to further complete the single market by 2025, including a new binding timetable for action as european leaders did in 1985, a new pledge based on a proactive movement towards strengthening the single market and away from a defensive national focus. we must not fall into the trap of returning to national protection measures and new regulatory barriers, such as gold-plating european legislation. our citizens need to understand that it is the single market and trade that supports jobs and growth, it is not isolationism in the form of new barriers.
mr president, the free movement of goods, services, people and capital is a key factor in the prosperity of europe as a whole. we are creating the second largest economy in the world, and we should be able to tap that potential. the commission has also taken the initiative of proposing a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers. there can be no two-tier consumers. so the measure that will be put in place that is, that certain practices in the supply chains will be considered unfair , i consider to be the right solution. the other issue is the free movement of services, which has already been mentioned here. the free movement of services should be simplified and no new barriers should be erected, as in the case of the directive on the posting of workers. i would like to personally thank the commissioner for presenting the e-card proposal, because i thought it was a very good simplification of services for some sectors, and unfortunately it was the ep that blocked this commission initiative for the time being. i hope that it will be renewed and that the european services market will facilitate this movement.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, the introduction to the report on serbia is considered to be a normal statement by the international court of justice in the context of un general assembly resolution 64/298 of 2010, which de facto recognised the unilateral declaration of independence of kosovo. what hypocrisy! serbia, despite all the efforts to weaken it, is still a key country in the middle of the balkans, even after the bloody nato aggression. moreover, its leadership was recognised as a winner in the last evaluation of the candidate countries. i object in principle to the attempt to determine for this candidate country who it can and cannot cooperate with in foreign and defence policy. i would like to draw your attention to the long-term peaceful coexistence of dozens of ethnic minorities in the northeastern part of the country. i wish that minorities in the baltic states or other eu countries had the same conditions that the author of the report considers insufficient. despite the goodwill of serbia, due to the lack of cooperation from kosovo, the technical problems associated with the illegal secession of this territory from serbia have not been satisfactorily resolved. but this is primarily a task for the european commission. ms. tomašić, not even croatian murderers should be running around the eu, not just from other balkan states.
for the group gue/ngl mr president, kosovo, or rather kosovo and metohija, is the cradle of the serbian state. the illegal secession of this territory from serbia, which is in addition in violation of un security council resolution 1244, is sufficient justification for not recognizing the independence of this artificially created state. if the balkans are said to be the site of the greatest corruption in europe, the origin of drug distribution routes, the failure to prosecute criminals from terrorist groups who have their roots there, and the absolute fiction of the rule of law, then this description best describes the situation in kosovo. the report makes no mention of the illegal existence of the largest us base in europe, bond steel, but instead tries to find at least some signs of positive development. it is appropriate to express deep concern about some actions of the local administration, including the practical unenforceability of the law and technical excesses such as the disruption of the european interconnected electricity system by inappropriate actions of local authorities. i cannot agree with the report as it is worded. does the commission have a problem with local authorities blocking the proceedings? you want to do visa liberalization with this state, commissioner?
madam president, i would like to draw attention to a longstanding and serious problem involving radical religious leaders, particularly from the ranks of islam. these imams and the problem with them are found in brussels, of course in germany, in france cases are described and today it seems, according to published information, also in the czech republic. there's very little information, but there's evidence that this man was paid in part by saudi arabia. i think that this kind of approach is unacceptable in the long run, and we've been seeing it for a long time. that is why i am not calling for any legislative solution, because this is of course primarily a matter for national legislation, but as far as terrorism and security are concerned, this is a matter for the eu and primarily diplomatic pressure should be exerted. maybe right now, right now, is the best time to deal with this issue. yes, support religious freedom, of course, also a version of islam, but in no case is it permissible in the european space to support radical islam by saudi arabia.
mr president, ensuring equal conditions for women with disabilities, whether in education, health or the workplace, should be taken for granted. yet, in some areas, it is not. for example, women with disabilities often have difficulty in seeking help from general practitioners. these women also face a burdened approach in other services and face various forms of violence. this motion for a resolution contains a number of important challenges to improve the situation of women. it draws attention to these problems and hopes that this resolution will provide an impetus for the states to ensure better quality services. however, i must point out some of the issues with which i disagree. i disagree with the recommendation to adopt the istanbul convention, to include sexual and reproductive health issues and to specifically care for transgender people. i believe that these challenges have no place in a resolution conceived in this way and therefore i am afraid i cannot support it.
next week we will be celebrating the international day of persons with disabilities. it is very important to remember these days however, that people with disabilities have the same rights as everyone else, we should think about throughout the year. people with disabilities are often invisible to society, and unfortunately, this is especially true for women. i find it really unacceptable that women with disabilities are employed at about half the rate of men. it is no wonder that they are the most vulnerable to poverty and social exclusion. in addition to lower incomes and pensions, women are more likely than men to stay at home to care for other family members without being paid. we have to change this practice. women with disabilities must be able to participate fully in public life and to claim their rights. one of the basic ways to do this is to vote and elect your representatives. i therefore hope that the next elections to the european parliament, and not only those, will be fully accessible to all, including people with disabilities. i would also like to call on my colleagues to consult organisations representing disabled people in their legislative work and in the preparation of all proposals, because only then can we ensure that their rights are truly taken into account.
madam president, i would like to agree with my predecessor that economists do agree that the most important thing for trade is the removal of all barriers, but unfortunately that is not how international politics and relations between states work. the important role played by these organizations in bringing order to trade relations and in fact in resolving trade disputes, is indeed important, but lately we have seen a kind of paralysis of this organization, at least for more than 10 years, and these trade disputes are increasing. china has joined this organization, but it does not live up to the ideas or the spirit of this organization. in principle, we are on the verge of a trade war, thanks to the contradictory measures of the trump administration, so it is important that europe takes an active role, which is why i supported this resolution, because it really counts on stability, on transparency in this organisation, on rules for developing countries or on rules for new technologies. all this is necessary, europe must be active. let's get to it.
madam president, serbia is a proud country with a long, rich history. modern history is pretty fast. since the collapse of the state, the war, through the hiding of some war criminals, i want to appreciate the progress, however small, on the part of this country that it has made, and i assume that it is indeed heading towards that democratic community of europe. but it is important that this country fulfills the roles it has set itself. it is a fact that for the czech republic, and i think for the whole of europe, it is essential that we can really give hope to the balkan countries. but some countries in the balkans have done much more, and we'll talk about that maybe in the next point. a future of peace and cooperation, economic prosperity, if that's what serbia is really striving for, i think it has to work. the report does describe it, i think, plausibly, and i supported it. but i am saying that serbia, if it is serious, should also do more.
madam president, i supported the report on macedonia because it has made considerable progress towards possible eu membership. it is among the most advanced among the candidate countries, although problems with the democratic nature of politics, with respect for the rule of law, including corruption and minority inclusion, persist. it is also receiving a substantial contribution from the eu to enable it to carry out reforms. it is very positive that an agreement has been reached between macedonia and greece on the name of the country, which has already been approved by the macedonian parliament. the report also mentions that former prime minister gruevski fled from macedonia to hungary, where he is seeking asylum. i assume the former prime minister will be extradited to macedonia, where he should serve his sentence as a convicted felon, and therefore be extradited.
madam president, macedonia has been a candidate country since 2005 and has indeed made very significant progress since then. and the constitutional change that is going to happen under the prespa agreement, under the vote on october 19th, is a really huge piece of work that has been done. the nationalists offer no other solution. i want to appreciate the effort. i want to support the current that is moving towards reconciliation between the two countries, and i think if someone is changing the constitution to do that, i think that's what this effort demonstrates. but much of what weighs on the country's past also needs to be done, for example the report mentions the issue of a special prosecutor to investigate past crimes. i mean criminal serious offenses, that's an important task that macedonia will have to fulfill, but the path is i think good.
madam president, i would like to explain why i supported the report on montenegro, which is seeking to join the eu. i see it as a country that shares our european roots and is therefore seeking to join the eu, as demonstrated by its efforts to meet the copenhagen criteria. the report notes that montenegro has made progress in negotiations with the eu, especially in its domestic policy. there has been an improvement in the status of judicial independence, e-government. another positive indicator was the recent presidential elections in april this year, which revealed no serious violations of the freedom of citizens to make their own decisions. we have some concerns about media freedom and we will of course be monitoring developments here as the ep.
madam president, although i consider equal access for women with disabilities to be very important and i agree that member states should make greater efforts in this area, i could not support the draft report because of the fundamental reservations i have about some of the recommendations. this is particularly true of recommendations that go beyond the eu's competence and interfere with member states' decision-making, especially in the areas of ethics and healthcare. the resolution recommends a major expansion of reproductive health, which is just another name for abortion. i believe that we should protect life, and that is the life of all, both women and unborn children. i also take a critical view of the challenge to ensure specific conditions in healthcare for transgender people. i believe that this is entirely a matter for the member states, as is the decision on gender reassignment.
mr president, there is an ongoing official conversation between the european commission and the czech republic about the new financial regulation and its interpretation. so neither the budgetary control committee nor the european parliament have had the chance to study the commission letter nor the czech republic’s answer. so it is not appropriate to formulate a resolution without any knowledge of the facts at hand. the czech authorities should have a chance to take measures first, so we are against the resolution. and first, let’s give the possibility to the czech republic to take the measures.
for the s&d group. mr president, tomorrow we are going to have a vote which will really affect public confidence in the work of the european food safety authority, in the decision-making of the european commission, in our legislative work, but also in the confidence in food safety within the internal market of the european union. people want us to do more for food safety, and they already want to know how and on what basis the european institutions make decisions about their safety. in today's world, where money is the unfortunate engine of everything, the only chance is to have a robust authorisation system that is resistant to outside influence in decision-making processes, in which any fraud and manipulation can be easily detected and corrected. our current authorization system is based on the requirement that the applicant prove the safety of their product. but in the past, this may have led some companies to buy favorable studies or to hide unfavorable results. we can now prevent these practices by providing independent scientists and the public with timely access to complete information. of course, there is nothing wrong with an industry being concerned about its competitiveness. copyright and patent protection is important and is sufficiently protected by this and other legislation, and it does not have to be paid for by lowering the quality of food safety. there is no reason to delay the publication of a non-confidential version of the application where the applicant himself does not expect that publication would in any way prejudice him. nor is it conceivable that the european food safety authority should be required to prove the safety of substances for private profit, using public funds. our group will not support this and we have asked for a roll call to see who would support it. tomorrow's vote will make it quite clear who is on the side of food safety and the legitimate demands of the european public, and on the other side, who is on the side of food safety as a boring obstacle to maximising profits.
mr president, i believe that the commission's proposal to publish confidential industrial studies in the context of the impact assessment by the european food safety authority is unfortunately completely inadequate. the commission is trying to appease the public after the recent glyphosate scandal. however, it proposes only cosmetic changes which in reality will not bring any increase in transparency or enhance public interest in health protection. the european commission believes that it will continue to be possible to refuse to publish scientific data and, for example, studies in the context of the authorisation of genetically modified organisms, on the grounds of the need to protect intellectual property rights or commercial interests. moreover, the european commission does not even envisage the possibility of re-using data without authorisation. it's not going to increase the number of toxicity studies. i am missing the commitment of the european commission to ensure sufficient funding for the european food safety authority, without which the whole risk assessment process is a complete utopia. unfortunately, we have not been able to remedy these deficiencies in the committee on legal affairs.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the main aim of revising the regulations of the three agencies is to align the functioning of the agencies with the common approach. indeed, i believe that the new regulations will lead to a more coherent and transparent functioning of the agencies, but not only that. we have also adjusted the agencies to today’s reality. this will maximise the potential of the agencies, especially in supporting member states and the eu in developing relevant policies. this should allow for a more efficient response to current challenges. as shadow rapporteur of the eurofound regulation, we managed to strengthen the role of parliament. parliament will have the power to nominate an independent expert to the management board and a right to a discussion with the nominee for the executive director. this will increase transparency and lead to better coordination with eu policymakers. provisions on conflicts of interest or against fraud will also increase the transparency and credibility of the agency. i welcome the emphasis on comparative studies, as i believe that these studies are particularly useful and encourage member states to share better practices. i believe that the new regulations will allow for the more efficient and transparent performance of the agencies. nevertheless, a new revision of the eurofound regulation may be necessary in the future in order to ensure better synergies and coordination with other eu agencies.
madam president, i believe that in politics we should speak the truth and speak openly. the point in question means that the european commission will allocate at least eur 6,5 billion from the connecting europe facility to the area of military mobility. the connecting europe facility was presented by the european commission with great fanfare seven years ago. the then european commission president barroso said at the time: "the connecting europe facility and the project bonds initiative are a perfect example of the added value europe can create. these proposals will support the construction of roads, railways, energy networks, oil and gas pipelines and broadband networks that are so important to our citizens and businesses. not a word about military mobility. not a word about cutting funding to much-needed civilian infrastructure projects, as the added value of military deployments will be prioritized. the european union is changing, and i fear it is not for the better. let's fund projects that help people, not those that help military mobility. let's not make europe for war, let's make it for peace!
madam president, commissioner, it is right that the european union is responding to the rapid development of digital technologies, which are the engines of growth and also of employment. the problem is that the levels of digital development and the skills of citizens vary widely across the member states, as my speakers have mentioned here. if in the next 25 years about half of today's jobs are to disappear and be replaced by jobs requiring special digital skills, then this is a challenge that both the member states and, of course, the european union as a whole must address. first of all, we need to train teachers, equip schools with new tools and programs. but i also want to highlight the need to protect against the misuse of digital technologies, against cyberbullying, the spread of fake news, and also the need to educate critical thinking.
madam president, i think it is clear that the european commission has great support for its cultural agenda from the committee on culture and education. not only does it propose to increase the creative europe programme, or it also proposes to establish a single point of contact for culture as regards the european union's financial programmes. we see the need to support professionals and make these programmes more accessible, easier to navigate and use. i would like to share a very recent experience myself, because i had the opportunity to see the international visegrad project of students from four cities, the cities of krakow, olomouc, bratislava and pécs. it's an artcome project, and i can confirm that this activity is quite exceptional for students. it develops their knowledge, creativity and, above all, it allows them to meet and to cooperate, and that's what we should be about.
madam president, it is exactly 70 years since the universal declaration of human rights was signed in paris. i would like to remind you that under the leadership of the former first lady of the united states of america, eleanor roosevelt, it was worked on by representatives of europe, america and asia, especially the still non-communist china, mr chang. the text of the declaration was very influential and made it acceptable to the then china. after 70 years, the situation has changed. while china does not respect human rights at home, countries that emerged from communist dictatorships and joined the european union have embraced these rights. but it's not won anywhere in the world, not even in advanced europe. that's why i welcome the petition initiated by adf international, for life, family and religious freedom. this petition has already been signed by forty-five thousand people, and i call for your signature. addressed to the united nations, the petition states: 'we call upon all nations of the world to respect the fundamental human rights to life, family, and religious freedom recognized by the universal declaration of human rights.' it's time to support this petition.
madam president, we are entering the christmas season, which should be a season of peace and quiet. on the other hand, we would all like to experience them in the family circle, perhaps at christmas markets or public gatherings, but especially in peace and security. i think that security is really key. after the attacks that took place just over the christmas holidays in germany, we need to be sure that the radicalized groups are really eliminated. on the contrary, we are receiving more disturbing reports from a number of european countries. i think what's coming to the forefront is the lack of coordination between intelligence services, security forces, who don't share information, who don't trust each other. what do the citizens of the european union expect? they no doubt expect protection and security. if there are trust issues between these security forces, i think it's important to name them, not publicly, but definitely to address them, so that we don't have to wait for the christmas holidays to see the same horrible events that happened a few years ago. let me conclude by congratulating karel schwarzenberg, the distinguished former czech foreign minister, on his birthday.
madam chair, i have noted a change in the status of asylum reform. the commission has presented this amendment and has understood the need to split the dublin package and adopt at least those measures on which there is agreement. this is for example the reform of the eurodac regulation, which includes lowering the age for fingerprinting children to six years. this is a step that we urgently need to take in protecting unaccompanied refugee children. it is essential to pursue agreements with north african countries on landing platforms and to further strengthen development and trade partnerships with africa. i would like to thank the president-in-office for his excellent report. as regards the internal market, the president of the commission was right to say: 'let us strengthen what we are strong in, what helps us.' and i regret that the number of those who are really in favour of deepening the internal market, for example in the services sector, is decreasing. unfortunately, the commission is not as much of a guarantor of the efforts to remove barriers as it used to be. in this context, i welcome the decision of the transport council to at least partially exempt international transport from the minimum wage and posting of workers regime. i hope that the european parliament will correct its mistaken decision on its first reading approach. the removal of barriers to the internal market is the backbone of european integration, and we are supposed to protect the internal market, especially against competition from third countries.
mr president, i have supported this draft report, albeit after some deliberation. it is not that i do not support the direction in which this report is going, but i think that this report should have been more comprehensive, that it should have covered a wider range of issues which i think it has not sufficiently addressed. there is no doubt that climate change will affect all of us. there's no doubt that this will have an impact on businesses, on states, of course, on every citizen. i believe it's important to really follow the rules that we set for ourselves in the paris agreement. on the other hand, only two dozen countries are prepared to do so, and many countries of the european union are not. we should take more account of the fact that protecting agriculture is not just decarbonisation at the european union level, but also in agriculture, that we have to protect biodiversity, protect soil and water. these are, i think, the topics that should have been covered more in the report.
mr president, i supported the revision of the directive on the protection of workers from exposure to carcinogens and mutagens. i consider it very important to protect employees from carcinogens and mutagens. this research is accelerating very rapidly and legislation should keep pace with it. i even think it is necessary to introduce this regulation at european level, especially in view of the high mobility of workers, for example in the construction sector, where workers are highly exposed to carcinogens and mutagens. some countries have high exposure limits for these substances, while others have no exposure limits at all. therefore, we should ensure a minimum standard of protection regardless of where these workers work. i also appreciate the commission's responsible approach in agreement with parliament and the council.
mr president, i regret that i was unable to support the final document in the final vote, although i am naturally also trying to do so and i welcome the fact that the european union institutions are responding to the waning trust of our citizens in the bodies responsible for food safety in the european union. we must do everything to increase the citizens' trust. i appreciate the work of our rapporteur, mrs renate sommer, who has worked to ensure that the process within the european food safety authority is transparent on the european parliament's premises. but this transparency cannot be at the expense of the proprietary rights of research institutions that study safety risks in the food chain, and that's what we've been pushing for. if we don't respect the proprietary rights in this area, we're opening up the possibility of third parties stealing research materials. we can't get more security at the expense of other people's risk.
mr president, i have endorsed this report. i really believe that food safety is a necessary and critical issue for each of us, that it's an issue that really affects the way each of us lives. in my view, scientific research should therefore be comprehensive and, of course, as open and accessible as possible to european citizens. we have been hesitant to be transparent in many other areas, but i believe that this is where it has its indispensable place. the key question is when this information, which is derived from scientific research, is to be made available, whether at the time of the notification of the study or after the investigation: i really see no reason why this information should not be made public as soon as it is available. as far as the ownership of the research, i think it's an unquestionable public interest. if someone has information that can help prevent a threat to the health or even directly affect the lives of citizens, then it is their duty to save them, not to hide this information and keep it only for themselves. that's why i endorsed this report.
mr president, as shadow rapporteur, i am satisfied with the outcome of the negotiations on the new eurofound regulation and have therefore supported the final form. we have succeeded in strengthening the role of the european parliament, for example by allowing the european parliament to nominate an independent expert to the management board, to hear him, to ask questions to the candidate for executive director. all this should set the stage for better, more effective cooperation between eurofound and the european parliament. eurofound studies should also better reflect the priorities of the european parliament and be more responsive to needs. finally, it is also important to move towards a more balanced representation on the management board in the area of gender equality. overall, this review should contribute to a more transparent, efficient functioning. in the future, i believe there should be more cooperation with the new ela.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, japan is the world’s third—largest economy, with near—record employment, solid economic growth, perspectives linked to external demand, and an ambitious international trade agenda. it is our strategic partner, our g20 colleague and a hugely important ally on the global stage on various fronts, starting with climate change, the sustainable development goals and wto reform and defence of rules—based international trade. we now have a unique opportunity to finalise the ratification process and get the deal approved during this parliamentary term so that it can enter into force as soon as possible. the commission has redoubled its efforts, the austrian and also the upcoming romanian presidencies are committed to it, and we have to do our best to complete the consent procedure. we have to respect japan and honour our commitments as soon as possible.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, let me begin by emphasising the importance in this current global climate of working ever more closely with like-minded partners across the world. as the chair of the delegation for relations with japan, i can say that japan has been an extremely reliable partner on the international level. also in this context, i warmly welcome both agreements. the strategic partnership agreement (spa) will see the eu and japan stepping up our cooperation in around 30 areas. the economic partnership agreement (epa) is certainly the most wide-ranging, largest and most modern bilateral agreement ever achieved. i would call on my colleagues who are considering not supporting this agreement to ask themselves whether they would also be against promoting cooperation in the world, economic growth in europe, opening job opportunities to hundreds of thousands of citizens and bringing benefits for consumers. we must not let our japanese partners down and we must certainly not let ourselves and our citizens down.
i strongly support the eu-japan economic partnership agreement. following the collapse of the ttip negotiations, the eu has been very successful in concluding trade agreements with key countries and geopolitical allies. canada is followed by japan, the third largest economy in the world. the volume of trade between them is already very significant. up to 600 000 jobs in the eu depend on it. but thanks to this agreement, these figures could increase significantly: eu exports to japan could be up to 34% higher. the left is threatening free trade and retreat from regulatory standards and so on. she's been intimidating ttip, ceta and other things. it turns out that these are just empty worries. the eu-japan agreement will be the most important trade agreement in the world and the czech economy is also very interested in it.
mr president, i would also like to take this opportunity to highlight the recent 70th anniversary of the adoption of the universal declaration of human rights. but there were more than one anniversary. yesterday was the birthday of karel schwarzenberg, the former czech minister of foreign affairs and a prominent human rights defender. or, unfortunately, the funeral of the prominent russian dissident and human rights defender lyudmila alexeyeva took place today. i would like to emphasize that the tendency towards autocratic practices is indeed an age-old and continually endless one. we are fighting for human rights in our own neighborhood. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the 20th article, which talks about the shrinking space for civil society. human rights defenders are often the targets of attacks. article 22 also talks about freedom of the media, which is also being curtailed. these are, i think, the moments that we must highlight today, especially on the occasion of the anniversary of the protection of human rights.
mr president, i would also like to welcome the work of the colleagues who negotiated this compromise with the council, but at the same time i would like to welcome above all the fact that this budget was adopted on time, that there was no budgetary blockage and that a certain degree of budgetary stability, which is very important from a fiscal point of view, will be maintained. i think the budget responds to the challenges that the european union faces, whether it's migration, climate change or brexit. i see a positive increase in funding for horizon 2020, also for science and research, or eur 350 million for the youth initiative. these are definitely moments of merit. on the other hand, there is an increase, for example in the strategic communication chapter, but i wonder how many resources those who spread disinformation have, that would probably compare. at the same time, i would like to join my colleagues in urging the council not to block the balances of previous periods but to use them for the further development of the european union.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would also like to join my two colleagues, the co-rapporteurs, in appreciating the interaction, and also the shadows; some of them, like inés ayala sender, are present here today. it was in fact highly professional, enjoyable and i think we have a good result. the connecting europe facility is a success story. i mean, it is delivering results. maybe it’s something that we should be better at communicating to the public but it is a success story, and i think that what we are aiming at is that we will be spending hopefully, as marian-jean marinescu has said, a higher amount of money, that there will be a budgetary increase, but that we will spend it more effectively and efficiently than so far, and that was the objective which brought us through while working on the report. let me give you a few examples. i think it has already been referred to that we are looking for multiannual programming. this is something that should provide for greater transparency, predictability and planning, but also consistency. this is what is needed. at the same time we should be evaluating constantly its implementation and we have asked the commission to work on qualitative indicators so that we would not just be assessing the kind of money we are spending, but what are the real results that we are achieving. one element that i was also quite strong on was joint ventures. we have one ten-t project where we have that experience and we know that a joint venture composed of entities from the countries concerned in a concrete ten-t corridor provides for better coordination in terms of planning and projecting, but also in securing financing, constructing and also future implementation. what we were looking at is also that we would be providing additional stimulus, bonuses, so whether you provide for greater synergy or you provide for better utilisation of the funds by having a joint venture, this should be remunerated with a higher degree of co-financing from the european funds. now one question which i would like to also highlight, and it has already been referred to, is the cohesion envelope. i think that i would advise all colleagues to look very thoroughly into the compromise amendment that we have tabled on the tran part with marian-jean marinescu because we think that it is a bridge between two diverging positions. one, let’s say, that was proposed by the commission and one which was very strong also among some colleagues, meps, and i think that this is something that could be quite unfortunate in terms of implementation in the future, so that would be my plea and my advice. military mobility has been mentioned. may i underline that we are talking about dual use. i know that some colleagues in the hemicycle, some members of the european parliament, will tend to put too much emphasis on the military and automatically present it as a major shift offset. that is not true. we are talking about dual use, and by the way, we need it in terms of increasing the security in the european union of our citizens, of our own. but this is not just about military, this is dual use, but it is also about managing crisis situations. we might be faced with a situation where we will have to move heavy equipment, let’s say, or a large number of people because of a natural disaster or whatever. so what we are proposing to you is, in my opinion, a well balanced report, one that got a vast majority in committee, and i think that the compromises that are put in front of you are, in fact, taking on board a number of important elements. and one last remark, because there was strong – and i know that i’m over time – but also on the climate and the environment. climate proofing is again a part of this package, so this is as good as we could have made it.
member of the commission. – mr president, honorable members, let me first also condemn all the violence, especially in the light of the horrible events that have taken place in strasbourg today. i would like to make sure that everybody hears that the eu will always stand up against such violence and protect democracy, which i dare to say that we have been able to develop at most in the world and we will continue to do so. i’d like to make a very strong statement that dialogue should always be our tool – to find solutions for differences no matter how big they are and no matter how painful the process of dialogue and negotiation is. this is what the eu stands for, and will continue to do so, regardless of the challenges that we have to face over and over again. but let me now focus back on today’s debate. i am glad that parliament has clearly confirmed its support for a reinforced cef (connecting europe facility) programme in the next programing period, and today’s discussion has confirmed that we agree on many of the aspects that will allow us to deliver. this proposal is crucial to implement our ambition for europe to complete the ten-t network and move towards zero—fatality, zero—emission, zero—paper immobility solutions. it is also an essential instrument to deliver the gigabyte infrastructure required for a smarter and more innovative europe. the forthcoming vote will be a significant step for european social and territorial cohesion, the european single market, and for europe’s global competitiveness, allowing a strong connecting europe facility to address connectivity needs across the entire eu. as regards the cohesion envelope, we have taken good note of the interesting compromise proposal tabled by the rapporteurs regarding article 4(8). so far, the council has not taken a final position on this specific subject. but let me stress one more time regarding the transfer: the experience of the transfer of the cohesion envelope to cef during this financial period is extremely good. all national envelopes have been allocated in the first three years and projects have started on time and are well followed up. so we want to continue this – including the high co—funding rate proposed for the next mff of 85% – to ensure that the entire ten-t network is delivered by 2030, which is our common goal for already very clearly stated reasons. so, once all positions are known and the commission will favour a solution that ensures the best possible management of cef cohesion envelopes, including through higher co-funding rates alongside increased competition amongst projects. and here, let me stress again that we are paying special attention to evaluation. we proposed a common approach for all programmes to be included in this common evaluation model. this will ensure compatibility and compliance with the better regulation agreement. we agree with close monitoring. we are already doing it largely and plan to improve it even further. but i would ask for cautious thinking before we call for a fully-fledged evaluation every two years because this might be too costly and disproportionate. let me add additional comments on the multiannual programming. our proposal allows for the adoption of multi-annual work programmes and our intention is that the first work programme covers two to three years in order to provide predictability for project promoters. however, requesting a detailed programming for seven years would be too rigid and adds additional steps in the implementation process which we believe might not be necessary. so, let me conclude with saying that following the vote in plenary this week and the council partial general approach adopted last week, the commission will fulfil its role as a facilitator in the legislative process in order to quickly find an overall agreement on this proposal. as a final remark, let me express once more my deep appreciation for the work you have done and your proposals. i am confident that the position adopted by the european parliament with cef is a solid basis for the negotiations with the council and i really look forward to a positive vote on your report tomorrow.
rapporteur. – mr president, i listened carefully to the commissioner and i think we will have plenty of opportunities to explain the logic of some of our proposals, because clearly there are points that the commissioner has difficulty with. on the other hand, i would have difficulty with a response, but we will have a dialogue and i am sure we will sort it out. i miss today some of our colleagues who have been very passionate in their contributions, those who have criticised the negotiations between the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteur, or mr dalunde, who made a very passionate speech on the environmental and climate aspects. it’s a pity that we did not experience some of that passion during the shadow rapporteurs’ meeting. some of us are more passionate in the debate in plenary, in front of the camera, and less passionate – or, in the case of some of our colleagues, less present – during the negotiations. i have just a couple of brief remarks. first, on the climate issues: yes, we can always include, in every single provision, a question on, let’s say, climate proofing, or any other issue. but there is a clear—cut mention, it is there, it provides added value. what is not there is the definition of climate proofing, we are asking the commission to look into the methodology and, of course, we will explore it. but is this legislation in which we should be defining, let’s say, climate proofing, which clearly belongs somewhere else? and there are numerous examples of such cases. i actually think we have gone quite a way towards meeting some of the expectations so that, even on the environment and climate issues, this is a very solid proposal that we have. a final remark, on public procurement, just to give you an idea of something that we also looked at. we know that our companies have a problem of access to china, for example, so we have stipulated, in a clear provision, how we will treat, in tender procedures, offers in which, let’s say, there is more than 50% participation of origin from a different state – we know which state we are talking about – and what we should do. so it is a very complex proposal that we are offering.
thank you. from a different seat, i would like to reciprocate. before closing the item, may i outline that we have already had two or three initiatives seeking postponement of the debate? i will not take any more points of order in this respect. by the way, we would need to have a high threshold to be able to place it and then to decide on it. so, regardless of what is going on outside, as tragic as it is, we will continue our business as usual and no points of order or comments will be taken by the chair from now on. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 12 december 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the report by zdzislaw krasnodębski, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on establishing the european defence fund (com(2018)0476 – c8-0268/2018 – 2018/0254 (cod)) (a8—0412/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, of course we have a difficult situation tonight, but despite the situation and in the moment when our thoughts are with the victims and their relatives and their families, we continue our debates and we continue our work. so let me start by saying a few words of appreciation for your work on this initiative. we, all of us – but especially you – were under a very tight time schedule. we have reached a turning point in the support for europe’s defence sector, and the european defence fund will be a game—changer. our aim is, of course, to strengthen europe’s defence industrial and europe’s research base and this will contribute to europe’s strategic autonomy. it will help europe to be more independent with regard to key technologies and key capabilities in defence. the fund will we hope – we know – importantly trigger more and lasting defence cooperation. our objective is to support the competitiveness of the eu defence industry. it is an ambitious fund with a budget of eur 13 billion, as it was proposed by the commission. it covers both research and development. we foresee eur 4.1 billion for the research phase, and selected research projects can even get up to 100% financing from the eu budget. we propose eur 8.9 billion for the development phase, and here in this part of the fund the eu budget can only co-finance collaborative development projects. this is because also we want a real engagement financially from the member states and from their budget. the defence fund embraces the whole lifecycle of the development of defence products and technologies, and this is indeed something completely new. but we will not start from scratch, from zero. such new direction is already in motion and getting momentum. we have launched two test programmes under the current budgetary period which are now in the implementation phase: the preparatory action on research and defence with eur 90 million and the european defence industrial development programme with eur 500 million. with the defence research preparatory action being in full swing, and the first calls for the edidp being launched next year, just from the beginning, we are really proving that cooperation in the defence sector is possible and we are proving that there is interest from industry to cooperate. i want to thank the european parliament for your support on those two test programmes. but back on the edf proposal, i’m happy this proposal has been equally supported by the itre committee and the associated imco, budg and afet committees. of course i will listen carefully to your discussion, but my plea to you and my call to you is to give a clear mandate tomorrow so that we can start the trilogue with the member states as soon as possible. the council also reached a partial general agreement, and i’m committed to having an open and constructive dialogue with parliament and with the council during upcoming trilogues. let me remind you also that many of the important and sometimes difficult discussions have been held in the first part of this year during the edidp negotiations. this is, for instance, the case for the eligible entities rules. i’ve noticed that the european parliament chose to follow the edidp rules on this subject. we welcome the course to continue on decided principles and work with you on any possible improvements. we also welcome the parliament’s support to enhance cross-border cooperation of smes and mid—caps – this was really an essential part of the agreement on edidp. for the commission it is very clear that the european defence fund is an inclusive programme open to beneficiaries from all the member states and open to companies of all sizes. this is why it shall promote the participation of smes from different member states in setting up of consortia in the defence supply chain. on the ethical aspects, let me say only one word, which was also an issue that we discussed under the testing phase: i would like to make it very clear that this proposal will not lead to support for any action regarding capabilities prohibited by international law, and the edf will be implemented in accordance with any ethical standards. i want to reassure you that we do recognise some of your concerns. this is why we have proposed ethical reviews of proposals under the fund, as we are already doing it for the preparatory action on defence research. so i’m looking forward to tonight’s discussion.
i started the stopwatch once again after your condolences and expressions of sympathy to strasbourg and the families involved. i am sure that we all feel the same. please, let’s now proceed with business as usual. bearing in mind that this is not the last debate – we still have one more – i would really appreciate it if we can now keep to the timing.
mr president, i too would like to express my condolences to the victims of today's terrorist attacks in strasbourg. anyway, i want to support you in that we're negotiating, i think it's important to send that signal as well. i was particularly struck by the fact that the €100 billion that is not being saved is due to the lack of coordination and cooperation in the common defence policies. i think that this finding is really the best evidence for why we should cooperate in creating a common european defence fund. i admit that i was not in favour of creating this fund, but i have learned from my experience in the european parliament and i have become a supporter of the idea. in my opinion, it is important not to rely on someone else, but to be able to have our own capabilities to implement a defense policy. i am therefore pleased that this task has finally been taken a step further and that a proposal is being put forward to work together and create value in the european defence community.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 12 december 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the joint debate on – the report by dan nica, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on establishing horizon europe – laying down its rules for participation and dissemination (com(2018)0435 – c8-0252/2018 – 2018/0224(cod)) (a8—0401/2018), and– the report by christian ehler, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the programme implementing horizon europe (com(2018)0436 – c8-0253/2018 – 2018/0225(cod)) (a8—0410/2018).
mr president, it is probably very difficult for any of us to speak here today in strasbourg at a time of sadness. in my view, horizon europe is one of the european union's most important activities. this is where the european union makes sense, with such a huge amount of money that no single member state could put into science and research on its own. i'm glad that, even though we were in a time-pressure, my colleagues and i had a very substantive debate all along. the result is, for example, a reference to the platform for helping regions in need, which i consider to be another step towards coping with the impact of the energy package that the european union has decided to adopt. these are 41 regions in 12 member states which are still mining coal and will be able to finance their scientific work. horizon europe will also help to promote the sharing of experience of the economic and social changes associated with the decline of coal mining. what i'm still not happy about, however, is the unclear status of the united kingdom. the british have for many years been, are and will most certainly continue to be the bearers of science and research of the highest world standard.
colleagues, i know that we have to stay in the building, so theoretically we have time, but let us also show respect to those who are providing services to us here today, whether it be the interpreters, the ushers or anyone else. so please do stick to the time limit.
colleagues, don’t get spoiled! you know me by now. if it were not for these extraordinary circumstances, in which we have somewhat more time, i would be, and in the future i will be, less tolerant and more strict about keeping to the time. pleases do stick to the time because it concerns not just us as meps but also the staff who are staying with us.
before i close the debate, may i thank all of you, not just those involved in this debate but also those who have been here throughout the whole evening. may i also thank the interpreters who have stayed with us that long, the ushers and all the services that have contributed to a business-like attitude under the tragic circumstances. my understanding is that the gunman has been surrounded, the shooting is still going on, so the situation is still not stable. and, according to my information, the safety measures here in parliament have not changed. some of us might have different points of view on that, but i don’t think that is something we will change here in plenary. before closing the debate, may i wish all of us, all of you, a safe journey home and to your hotels tonight. once again, i am sure that we all extend our condolences and sympathies to those affected, to our french colleagues and to the french people, and i am sure the french police will do a good job tonight. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 12 december 2018. written statements (rule 162)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we can see that digital companies can easily be taxed where they want, regardless of where the value and profits are created. the current tax framework does not match the developing business models in this era. we must, therefore, change the current system and make taxation fairer. there were two proposals on digital taxation, which were overwhelmingly supported by the committee on economic and monetary affairs last monday. the first proposal for a digital service tax, which is meant as an interim measure, will ensure that the revenues generated by user activity on certain digital services are taxed in a fair, efficient and transparent way before a comprehensive solution can be reached. the second proposal offers the comprehensive solution to reform corporate tax rules, so that profits are registered and taxed where businesses have significant interaction with users through digital channels. it is, therefore, hard to believe that the council was unable to reach an agreement and has been watering down the proposals, including the scope, and has postponed the decision. the council presidency spectacularly failed. we can also see that it is mainly those member states who benefit from profit-shifting schemes which are the ones who are against these proposals. in this area the european union is clearly paralysed and will regret it dearly. as the european parliament, it’s crucial that we send a strong message to the council and to all european citizens that we care about fair taxation. fair taxation is one of the ways through which we can broaden the benefits of globalisation by reducing its negative impact.
mr president, the european union devotes a lot of energy to fighting tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering, and i guess this is the right policy because these are among the most important economic topics today, and we have achieved many successes. we have approved the anti-tax-avoidance package, we have improved administrative cooperation, we have reviewed anti-money-laundering legislation, and so on. at the same time, however, as the commissioner mentioned, we have failed to move forward on big issues such as a common corporate tax base and vat reform, and i’m afraid the digital tax may become one of these failures. the so-called digital tax does not deal with the problems of tax evasion, fraud or money laundering: it simply addresses the problem of the inadequacy of our tax regimes, which are not suited to providing governments with revenues in the 21st century. economically speaking, we are talking about instability and erosion of the tax base. this is not just a problem of the digital economy, this is a problem involving so-called distance sales, intellectual property and global companies. to find a globally sound solution will be difficult, and the fact of negotiation does not mean that we have the solution. we have just two options: either we go for something that will be reasonably good and functional, or we give up and leave it to the member states to devise their own solutions – probably with the end result of fragmentation and of smaller states being disadvantaged. i am definitely for the first solution, even though it is not an optimal one.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday, 13 december 2018. written statements (rule 162)
the question posed by the blue card. mrs. sender, may i ask you, do you think we should not deal with the conflict of interest of one of the politicians? is that what you're telling us here, that we're not really doing anything and we're doing something else? is that why the s&ds did not support this resolution? and can you explain to me why maybe the socialists from malta are in the panama papers and why you don't want to deal with it?
for the ecr group. mr president, i will speak czech here because i will be addressing the czech audience primarily. i apologize in advance to the interpreters that some of the terms may be difficult to translate. first of all, i would like to say that this issue was not brought to the european parliament by us, the opposition members from the opposition parties. it was put forward by a group which does not even have any czech members, and i think this is clear evidence that this is not a reflection of any internal czech political struggle, but that there is indeed a suspicion of a conflict of interest on european soil regarding the use of funds from the european budget. unfortunately, it resonates from the highest places, that is, primarily from the position of prime minister of the czech republic. what's the matter? what's the matter? the prime minister was one of the key economic players, he was the head of a large group that had a significant position on the czech market in terms of agricultural production, food industry, chemical production, and this group was also a large recipient of subsidies from the european budget and it was really gigantic amounts. the prime minister, formerly as minister of finance, has formally and legally cut himself off from this business in the form of a trust fund, but it is still owned by his close associates, family members, so there is some doubt whether he is still influencing this concern. of course, as commissioner oettinger said, there are also stricter rules which have been in force since 2 august this year, and therefore the whole thing needs to be properly investigated. if i can appeal from this place to the supporters or the voters or the prime minister's fan club, it's really not a campaign at this point, it's not a cause, it's not a conspiracy. it's just that we need to investigate whether someone is playing "small house" or, in this case, "big house". i think that you, voters and supporters of the prime minister, should also be interested in the economic side of things, because there were times in the czech republic when politicians resigned for far less suspicion. the second thing that needs to be addressed is the subsidy system in general. what is the purpose of subsidies, whether for cohesion policy or the common agricultural policy? it is economic convergence. if we have countries that have 130% of gdp per capita, and at the other end of the scale, countries that have maybe under 50%, we have to try to bring them together a little bit with the help of these european policies. i fear that if the system is set up so that the recipients of european subsidies can be large companies, such as agrofert, we will never achieve this goal. this is an appeal to the commission to think a little more about the way in which grants are allocated and to give more thought to smes and small and mediumsized enterprises when preparing the multiannual financial framework for the coming period. i'm not happy we're discussing the czech republic here. i am of the opinion that the laundry should be done at home, but on the other hand the whole thing is about european money, so the european parliament is the place where we should and must talk about it. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question posed by the blue card. i agree with my colleague zahradil that the dirty laundry should be washed at home. i just wanted to ask, because he was the representative of the party that had the czech presidency in charge and wanted to sugarcoat europe, if he still insists that we should sugarcoat europe.
answer the question by raising the blue card. mr. speaker, i think that the dirty laundry really should be washed at home and that when there was a discussion about a possible conflict of interest or media influence by the prime minister, i was very strongly opposed and said that this is exactly the issue that we should solve at home. but in this case, it's money from the european budget, so it's just the european union. as for the sweetening, as you mentioned, i just think that each country should have the right to express its opinion on the future direction of the european union as it sees fit. you can call it sweetened, spiced or whatever metaphor you want to use, but i would certainly insist on that right.
the question posed by the blue card. mr. torvalds, you are an experienced politician. i want to ask you, you said it was up to the czech authorities to deal with this situation. but the european commission's legal service has made it clear that the prime minister is in a conflict of interest with regard to european union legislation. shouldn't the prime minister and the owner of agroferta be handling this situation?
mr president, subsidies are wrong and unfair. subsidies attract crime, and there is even a strong suspicion that there are no subsidies that are not linked to crime. good deeds should be done with private money, not public money. if someone wants to do a good deed and with public money, then as a donor, he bears full responsibility for all the criminal consequences that this will cause. it seems very unfair to me when the commissioner here says that the czech authorities have to deal with this matter. the european union caused this situation by granting the subsidies and by not checking the conflict of interest before granting the subsidies. that means he can't blame the czech authorities for the situation. the european union is guilty and the european union must solve it. as for how subsidies are provided and managed in the european union, i would like to recall that years ago a group of members of parliament looked at the management of the european union and came to the conclusion that approximately eur 5 billion is lost every year in the european budget without any trace, without any accounting records, without any information about what happened to that money. this is how the european union is run. no wonder, then, that similar situations arise in the member states.
mr president, conflict of interest is one of the most serious systemic flaws in financial operations within the budget. if on the one hand the czech prime minister is involved in deciding on the shape of the european budget, if he can target european subsidies for large agricultural companies and at the same time, on the other hand, this prime minister is also the recipient of these financial profits, i think that this is an unquestionable conflict of interest situation. then something is really wrong. i dare say that such a huge conflict of interest in the prime minister of a member state of the european union has not yet reached this level. this is not a matter of a contentious interpretation of the regulation, as the czech prime minister tries to explain. the interpretation is quite clear. if it receives european subsidies, it must respect european rules, which really affect all of us. we members must insist on the observance of the rules laid down, and the commission is the guardian of those rules. it is primarily the member states that are responsible for carrying out checks, but the czech republic is failing completely in this control. although a number of non-profit organizations have pointed out this conflict of interest to the czech prime minister. the commission must therefore act. it has our full support, and i would also like to encourage it to take action, whoever it is. we must protect european taxpayers' money and i do not know how to explain that cohesion funds, which are intended to remove disadvantages in order to support weaker regions, end up with a billionaire who is countless times richer than the average french or swedish taxpayer.
mr. chairman, it's time to get some facts straight. commissioner oettinger, in the committee on budgetary control, of which i am vice-chairman, has repeatedly confirmed that the czech republic is working with the european commission to clarify the situation. the same words were echoed in our committee by commissioner creţu and commissioner hogan. the european commission always stresses that it follows the rules and its conclusions cannot be expected until all the facts have been checked. if we do not have complete information even in the committee on budgetary control, how can we adopt a resolution in plenary on this matter? why don't we just let the proper institutions work? we too must be concerned that they present an impartial and objective opinion, which will remove all concerns and ensure compliance with european law. we should also leave room for the czech authorities to find solutions. the legal situation after the commission has taken a position on the interpretation of the new financial regulation needs to be assessed and a way to be found that works from the point of view of both czech and european law. this also requires time and patience, notwithstanding the fact that the financial regulation concerns all member states in general. the czech republic shall fully respect the legislative competence of the european union and its obligations arising from its membership of the union. the letter from the czech prime minister to commissioner oettinger, which talks about this, is also evidence. it assures that the prime minister will personally take all necessary measures to ensure full compliance with european union law. each of us sitting here knows that at this stage, more information and concrete action is not possible. and it's not going to be helped by leaks to the media, or messages we send to each other through the media, or shouting in the house. is chasing cheap political points really all we care about? ladies and gentlemen, i think that on the one hand we demand that the member states strictly observe the rules, but on the other hand we in the european parliament are not setting an example by ignoring the facts and abandoning the rules and regulations we have committed ourselves to. (the registrar has agreed to answer the question raised by the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question posed by the blue card. dear colleague, i'm glad you're so optimistic about this case. we in the european parliament are concerned. so let me ask you this: do you really believe that the czech authorities can somehow resolve this situation, given the potential conflict between the country's prime minister and the czech government? see the opinion of your minister of justice and other opinions issued by your ministers from your movement. i think the european level is the only possible objective platform.
answer the question by raising the blue card. my dear colleague, i am an optimist by nature. but certainly: i am not giving up on the european commission having a say, i am just saying that we must respect the procedures and processes and we must wait for the official opinion of the european commission. on the contrary, i am reassured by the fact that both the european commission and the czech republic are communicating intensively and are seeking a common position on the interpretation of the new financial regulation. so i'm optimistic about this.
mr. chairman, christmas is coming and so is the season of wish fulfillment. my wish is that you take from today's debate this: the czech republic is not andrej babiš, agrofert is not the czech police and the czech courts are not the fox's nest. i'm not defending andrej babiš, but the czech republic, which doesn't deserve to be in the dustbin. cases involving our prime minister are being handled by both the czech police and the relevant european union bodies, as we heard today. do you really think that political pressure needs to be exerted on the commission and olaf? after all, the conflict of interest debate began with an internal analysis by the lawyers of the european commission and olaf. andreje babiš does not need to be represented by anyone. if the commission decides that action is necessary, it will take action. if olaf decides to act, it will act. the czech police, prosecutors and courts are also independent and will act if they secure evidence of criminal activity. why then the pressure from meps who cannot know the full background of these cases? political declarations should not be commissioned by independent experts. the judiciary must be independent, and this independence will certainly not be helped by political pressure as it has never been in the past.
the question posed by the blue card. dear colleague, do you consider it a conflict of interest to be paid by an institution and an organization and then dedicate yourself 100% to work against that institution and organization?
mr. chairman, paradoxically, this debate is not about one man, it's about principles. and it's about the principles on which a democratic state of law is supposed to be based. i would like to say that the committee on budgetary control, of which i am a member, is carefully examining all suspicions. "fall to whoever falls", whether it's orbán from the ppe or whoever it is. paradoxically, this debate is not about settling our differences or settling accounts before the elections. this debate is about opening up the issue of conflict of interest, and if i'm ever a politician, i have to respect that i can't decide how i'm going to hold benefits in a company or a firm, that i think is perfectly clear. andrei babiš is not a victim in this debate. andrej babiš is the one who is the architect of this debate. if he wasn't a conflict of interest, this debate wouldn't be happening. i think we've seen many times here that we just have to open up these debates, otherwise these things don't move forward. mr. commissioner, the only thing i ask of you is that you act neutrally. don't alienate anyone, stay neutral and see this thing through. ladies and gentlemen, the only thing i want you to do is think about how we're going to handle a conflict of interest. dear council members, i want you to be equally as blunt and unambiguous in other conflicts of interest. i think that is the only way to restore the credibility of the european union. the last thing i'd like to say is that it's a pity mr. verhofstadt isn't here. i personally think he's a man who fights for transparency and fights for a better europe. and if he wants to fight for it, he should be here. for it is not the blind who do not see, but the blind who do not want to see.
mr. president, it's strange to speak of my country and the government in which my political party is also involved. on the other hand, the second variant that andrej babiš had was a government based on the far left, the communists, and the far right. this is the sad reality of the czech republic and it also testifies to the pro-federalism of andrej babiš's liberalism. in my opinion, this debate should have taken place sometime in january or february next year, when the commission will present the conclusions of this analysis and when mr babiš will have found time to visit the european parliament, because he has cancelled his january trip. i think it's clear from the documents we have that andrej babiš is either still in a conflict of interest, or he solved the problem himself. it also concerns the media group he formerly owned, which is now under investigation by the czech authorities. you see, it's not just a conflict of interest, but it's about the fox's nest, the prosecution of the prime minister, his entanglements with the communist state security. these are all the problems of one man, which then cast a very bad light on the czech republic and de facto put it in a very bad light also in terms of the use of european union funds.
mr. chairman, to be honest, i don't know what the point of this debate is. certainly, and i agree with you, we need to look at how we are to interpret the new regulation legally and how it is to be applied by all the member states. and that is also in the interest of the czech republic. that is why the european commission and the czech republic have standard communications through the official channel, which, as we have just learned, is not available to any of the other meps except the management of the committee on budgetary control. i will not therefore spare myself a remark to those who have made an enormous effort to bring this subject to the plenary of the european parliament. it took some political effort. these are games that are damaging to the czech republic itself in the first place, but they do not contribute to the good reputation of the european union in the czech republic. so i wish you all a peaceful advent.
the question posed by the blue card. maybe before your colleague here yells at us, you should clarify and find out what the situation is in the czech republic. czech communists are fighting for a better life for their citizens, for higher wages, for the abolishment of the shameful church restitution, or at least the taxation of it, for the property not to be sold to other hands than the germans, and for us to have our own right to water and mineral resources. that's why the czech communists support andrej babiš, that's what we stand for and look no further.
mr president, i am sorry that i cannot share the speeches of some of my colleagues from the group of the european people's party, but i am much more sorry that we have to discuss this matter in the plenary today because it is damaging to the czech republic, to its interests. but as the czech prime minister said today in the czech parliament, the czech meps are not to blame for this. it is not the fault of the members of the european parliament, it is not the fault of the european union, but it is the real situation in the czech republic, the inaction of the czech government and the czech prime minister, and unfortunately not even the comments of the prime minister about the false analysis of the european commission or about the fact that he will respect czech law. i think that commissioner oettinger has been very clear today, and i think that at this moment the prime minister of the czech republic must act if he does not want to further damage the interests of his own country, and that the letter that the prime minister sent on the basis of the government's action is not convincing as to its content. i think any voter who looks at the legislation and this letter will see that this is not a responsible approach. lastly, commissioner, i would like to urge you to look for solutions that will have the least impact on the czech republic, but which will address the situation of the individual, even with the limited room for manoeuvre you have in dealing with this issue.
mr president, we recently debated in the european parliament the situation of the media in the czech republic, and today we are discussing the use of european union funds. both cases de facto concern the same measured by electoral results successful economic-political project of the winner of the elections and the ruling party in the czech republic. its founder, with his huge multi-sector business empire, became the hegemon of czech politics within a few years. in both cases, we are brought into the law of the czech republic at the time. the question is whether this finding is sufficient, and that settles the matter. the traditional understanding of conflict of interest considered the confluence of economic, media and political power to be so unacceptable that it was not even necessary to emphasize them in any particular way. but what if the unwritten rules don't apply? we have lawyers on the books, and the winner of the election has a mandate to set the rules. in the czech republic today, we may see a trend in politics, elsewhere in europe and the world, whatever the lawyers decide on this particular case.
mr. chairman, i am not at all pleased that the good name of the czech republic has been brought into the discussion today, because the conflict of interest is not the czech republic, but the prime minister. this is an agrofertu owner's conflict, this is a personal conflict. the czech republic and the european union have not failed here, but those who have political influence over the distribution of funds, from which they derive a considerable financial benefit, have failed. the one who distributes these funds in the czech republic, who influences them at the level of the european union as a member of the council and who also has to control them at the level of the czech republic has failed here. i am very sorry that we have to have this debate here, but the european parliament must act and the european commission must act. we can't just stand by and watch the law be broken. i thank commissioner oettinger for his commitment to the thorough prosecution of this case.
mr president, i would also like to appeal to commissioner oettinger to act impartially and objectively. as for any media outcry about a false european union or something like that, it should be taken as the fact that the current prime minister babiš in the last election period, when he was minister of finance, recorded one sad record, namely that the czech parliament adopted at one point a resolution on the case of the squirrel's nest, an explicit resolution that the then minister of finance lied to him. a resolution of parliament that the minister is lying is, i'm afraid, a very sad one.
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking my colleague, rapporteur zwiefko, for producing this excellent report. i am pleased that this is not an attempt to regulate from above, but a response to demands from below, and i believe that this proposal, if implemented, will show other european citizens the added value of european integration. if we create a european fast track for cross-border commercial disputes, we will speed them up and thereby respond to the basic complaint that entrepreneurs have. we want to make it faster, and therefore cheaper. we want this procedure to be based on the principle of thorough preparation of the parties before the procedure is opened, to be conducted primarily in writing, and to keep procedural time limits as short as possible. i am aware that ultimate success also lies in mastering technical details such as uniform quality forms. however, we believe that this can be managed and inspired by, for example, the small claims procedure already approved. i would ask the commissioner to take this proposal with all the force and determination that the commissioner has indicated, in order to relieve european businessmen and traders as soon as possible.
for the group gue/ngl. mr president, allow me to begin by thanking my friend and rapporteur, mr tadeusz zwiefko, for the preparation of this report, which i think is very good. it is no secret that the settlement of trade disputes in the european union is still unbearably slow. it is estimated that clients in some member states wait up to four years to enforce the terms of a particular commercial contract. in particular, it is speed and efficiency that clients most want from the court in resolving commercial disputes. although it must be admitted that, according to the comparison published by the commission each year, some progress has been made in the length of civil proceedings. i would immediately sign up to a number of the measures proposed by the rapporteur and support the report as such. training lawyers and judges in commercial matters, greater access to eu and national legislation, and the idea of an accelerated european civil procedure are all topics for discussion. i'm a little skeptical about the idea of a european commercial court. i would also like to note that unfortunately, it is still the case that poorer people have less access to justice and that people with incomes below the poverty line are not entitled to any legal aid in certain types of disputes. this is not acceptable. in addition to the speed of civil proceedings, we also and above all need to ensure that justice is accessible to everyone.
for the ecr group. mr president, let me begin by thanking my colleague salini. i really appreciate his consensus approach. it's good that the report will have such broad support, and i think that's very important. first, the question of the management of the programme. i have long called for the strengthening of synergies between the galileo and copernicus programmes under the umbrella of the gsa. extending security accreditation to other programs was the first logical step. i am glad that parliament is now going further and giving the agency additional tasks, such as marketing or cybersecurity. the space program is now putting all space projects under one roof. i have repeatedly said that galileo and copernicus have a clear added value in cooperation at european union level. some colleagues expressed scepticism about the ssa and in particular the govsatcom component. i think we should go towards a bigger scale here too. but i also sense a budget constraint. the third country involvement. here we would like to see more flexibility, mutually beneficial for the european union and for the friendly countries with which we cooperate in the field of security. i am of course referring to the united kingdom first, whatever the future relationship may be. on the related issue of public procurement: if we have a security agreement with third countries, we should open up tenders for their industry. i also understand the sensitivity of the question of ownership of european companies. but we must be careful not to destroy the space ecosystem, including companies owned by entities from friendly, allied third countries.
for the ppe group. mr president, this summer another middle eastern human rights defender, lawyer nasrin sotoudeh, was imprisoned in iran. her case is unique both in being the first female lawyer to be imprisoned in iran and in being a political prisoner who was not afraid to go on hunger strike. in addition, he has been involved in the recruitment of foreign fighters for the taliban. nasrin sotoudeh fights for gender equality, for the rights of ethnic and religious minorities, which are not guaranteed in iran. we must not be indifferent to her fate any more, because the death penalty is still used in iran, including for political prisoners. the european parliament has repeatedly raised its voice and demanded the release of nasrin and other political prisoners. i appreciate that we agree on this across the political spectrum, and that's our strength and that's also the hope for political prisoners.
for the ppe group. mr president, unfortunately there is widespread human rights abuse in egypt. hundreds of people are being held in egyptian prisons simply for exercising their freedom of speech or right to assembly. moreover, their detention was often not preceded by a judicial process that met the basic requirements of a fair trial. we demand today that all these people who are being illegally detained be released. egypt has not improved the protection of its christians, who make up 10% of the population, but they are still subjected to violence by islamic fundamentalists. and so egypt is on the sad map of countries where freedom of religion is difficult to exercise. in 2018, islamists attacked a bus of christian pilgrims, killing seven of them. of course we want the best possible relations, but it is important to apply the principle of 'sea for sea' in all areas of relations with egypt. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question by raising the blue card. thank you for asking, i just found out. therefore, i would like to point out that the egyptian government must do more to protect this group from islamist fanatics.
mr. chairman, i, listening to my colleague mr. sośnierz, would never say that i would miss mr. korwin-mikke. that's a very sad discovery for me. but let's focus on tanzania, because the problems of the people who are really suffering are relevant to us in this debate. i would like to support my colleagues who have described the situation in tanzania. it is absolutely unacceptable how the government that we looked up to with some hope that it should be the government, is transformed right before our eyes into a regime that suppresses human rights, attacks people, suppresses the opposition, journalists, the lgbt community, confiscation of property. these are the facts that we really need to mention here. it's not superfluous, mr. sośnierz, it's quite clearly important to send this message. we have the means to intervene. you heard it from mr. kelly. i think it is now the commission's role to step up to the government in tanzania and make it clear that this cannot have our support and then our support cannot go there.
mr president, i supported this motion for a resolution and i am very pleased that this motion for a resolution has been passed with one amendment. it is our duty to protect the resources of the european taxpayers, it is a matter for the european budget. i must emphasize that the czech prime minister is trying to transfer his argument to the european level, that it is a campaign, that it is a charity, he attacks in a non-selective way czech non-profit organizations, such as transparency international. but he's a czech prime minister who draws on subsidies wherever he can, and yet his conflict of interest is fundamentally damaging the czech republic's image in europe. i am not talking about the fraudulent use of european subsidies, which he has obtained at the expense of small and medium-sized businesses, and for which he is accused of criminal offences. i am also pleased that the motion for a resolution draws attention to the dangerous concentration of political, economic and media power in the case of the czech prime minister. if democratic rules are to work, a system of checks and balances must be guaranteed. the czech prime minister has bought or acquired a substantial part of these democratic brakes by concentrating power. therefore, the czech republic is failing in its control and its good reputation is undermined at the highest level.
mr president, the european parliament has made it clear in its vote today that prime minister babiš has a real problem, a conflict of interest problem. what andrej babiš is making of this, a debate at the czech level, that this is a problem of the czech political opposition and some journalists, has been refuted by this vote. it is a real problem and the european parliament resolution makes it clear that the european commission can and should properly, impartially and independently investigate whether andrej babiš is really in a conflict of interest and therefore whether he is taking european money legitimately or not. i think this is very important because it is the czech political problem, which would be difficult to solve at the level of the czech authorities, whether executive or supervisory, because andrej babiš is the prime minister, that will be solved by the european institutions at this moment. it is european money and the european institutions must therefore logically decide on it. thanks to this debate, the czech authorities are already working today. the czech ministry of finance said today that it would not be drawing money for agrofert.
good afternoon, colleagues. the sitting is resumed. i welcome the commissioner. this is our last part—session before christmas, so let’s make it an efficient and smooth one.
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on rare diseases by mairead mcguinness, rory palmer, jadwiga wiśniewska, gesine meissner, tilly metz, estefanía torres martínez and piernicola pedicini, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000118/2018 — b8—0419/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, first of all, as the commission and other commissioners and members of this house have done along these past two days, please allow me to express my solidarity with the families of the victims of the terrible attack here in strasbourg. now we have three deaths and that is very painful for me as a medical doctor. secondly, i would like to tell ms meissner that she has just opened my heart and i give her my words of sympathy because of such an experience. in the 20 years of work on rare diseases the commission has fostered network structures for action and expertise. it has developed a policy framework with member states and encouraged innovative ways of working. mr president, i have six questions, which – if i may say – will be impossible to answer in three minutes because i know those questions are very detailed. let me go question by question because i need to present a really comprehensive picture. would you allow me to have more than three minutes? thank you. going to the first block of questions, the first is about timely diagnosis of rare diseases, which is very important. we have taken concrete steps to ensure that the patients are diagnosed as rapidly as possible. first, with the adoption of the directive on the application of patients’ rights in cross—border healthcare, member states set up national contact points. then you have 28 national contact points. they are workable. these are key to inform doctors and patients, notably with rare diseases, on the way to access the appropriate expertise offered in the patient’s own home country or facilitate contact with a contact point in another member state. second, ehealth digital service infrastructure now is workable, is in place; it is done. it helps to exchange views in cross—border areas, patient’s records and so on. the 24 european reference networks will launch in march and with more than 900 specialised healthcare units, from over 300 hospitals connected across the eu, the european reference network facilitates the access to timely diagnosis and treatment for patients with rare and low prevalence conditions. they contribute greatly to the sharing of information and linking of expertise between clinicians and researchers across the eu. the clinical patient management system is now once again workable, from november last year, where healthcare professionals from european reference networks discuss real patient cases and conduct virtual consultations and treatment. these have led to very successful eu—wide cooperation between clinicians in identifying and addressing the needs of patients. from november until now more than 250 patients have received timely diagnosis and treatment. this shows effectiveness. as regards the sub—question on access to affordable medicine, the study that was published early this year on the economic impact of pharmaceutical incentives and rewards in europe including supplementary protection certificates, draws attention to timely access treatment for rare diseases. an additional study will gather information and assess, on the basis of the acquired experience, the functioning of the orphan regulations. also, an evaluation of the orphan and paediatric medicine regulation will be finalised before the end of my mandate – maybe in spring next year. also, there have been measures to promote research in the field of rare diseases and to improve methods of early diagnosis. horizon 2020 and the seventh framework programme on research have supported more than 200 projects on rare diseases in very different areas, and now we provide more than eur 1 billion to rare diseases. i will just mention a few examples. the eurenomics and neuromics projects focus on improving diagnostic matters for large groups of rare diseases including rare kidney diseases, for example, and the solve-rd and immune—a projects are now looking to improve the capacity in the coming years. we have a lot of common clusters which can help us address the complexity of rare diseases. regarding the questions on achieving measurable improved outcomes for rare diseases, let me stress this year’s opinion of the expert panel on benchmarking access to healthcare in the eu, including the area of rare diseases. we have also just finalised a pilot project called ‘towards a fairer and more effective measurement of access to healthcare across the eu’. the project was launched at the request of the european parliament, and now we are pushing forward. the second block of questions. access to information, first of all. i would firstly like to mention the joint action on rare diseases, which has supported over the past three years the development and sustainability of the orphanet database on rare diseases, and has also helped us to achieve an appropriate codification of rare diseases in the health information system in order to help really to understand more about such a complex issue. this database is the biggest repository of information about rare diseases globally and is run by a large consortium of european partners. you should also know that the steering group on health promotion, disease prevention and management of non—communicable diseases selected the codification of rare diseases as a priority area to be implemented as best practice, and is now in line with achievements. the orphacodes project will be supported with eur 750 000 under the 2018 annual work plan. the project aims to support member states in better gathering information on rare diseases from all 28 member states. last week, the commission developed a european platform on rare diseases registration, and is promoting the interoperability of existing registers and will help to create new ones. can i just mention two databases – eurocat and csba – which have been implemented now. on the sub—question on access to medical treatment and medicine for rare diseases, the cross—border healthcare directive helps citizens in obtaining medical treatment in other member states and to be clearly informed as to the rules on reimbursement that apply in cross—border situations. this means that now all member states should draw attention to the possibilities to reimburse patients with rare diseases. this specialist treatment is particularly relevant for rare diseases. the commission also supports the orphanet database as a unique resource for pooling knowledge of rare diseases and guaranteeing access to treatment because it is also about medicines, new legislation on orphan drugs, redirecting investment into previously neglected therapeutic areas through incentive schemes. the challenge is to find a balance between adequate incentives for research and development and equitable access to affordable medicines for all, especially in the area of rare diseases. we are conducting a study on these very issues which will be used for the evaluation of orphan and paediatric regulation. you know, lastly, speaking about health technology assessment, now such a tool, if we succeed, will help us to move forward in this area. on your third sub—question about promotion of better coordination and learning across member states, rare diseases is clearly an area where cooperation at eu level provides real added value. this is a real example of subsidiarity: when you have no chance to address issues at local level you should go to the regional – if not european – level, in line with subsidiarity. by working together we can share data and expertise, overcome fragmentation and geographical disadvantages and guarantee patients the right diagnosis. as you know, the newly—established european reference network has strengthened cooperation including between clinicians, researchers and of course different developers of treatment and they are building diagnosis networks and a network of working groups to see how they can address concrete issues. i count on possibilities to develop a network of networks – european reference networks – in communication with national healthcare systems and going deeply into primary care, so that all can find pathways, easy pathways, to achieve timely diagnosis. on your questions on sustainable funding of patient organisation support in european reference networks on rare diseases, european reference networks are economically and logistically supported by the commission through the ehealth programme – one resource – and, second, the connecting europe facility programme. there is no direct funding to the patients’ representatives, but each european reference network receives eur 200 000 annually from the health programme. this grant supports the network and coordination capacity of the networks, including the organisation of meetings with patients’ representatives. the ehealth programme also provides operating grants for non—governmental organisations and patient organisations. eurorodis is very important in this field. in addition, the horizon 2020 work programme for 2018 looks to set up a rare disease european joint programme co—fund. this encourages the participation of european reference networks and patient organisations in the programme over a five—year period. in order to ensure sustainability beyond 2021, we made a proposal in the multiannual financial framework which envisaged support through direct grants, and this is now in the hands of all of us. of course countries can also use structural funds, selecting centres, and use social funds supporting the qualification of medical doctors. president, honourable members, thank you for giving me the opportunity to update you on the broad spectrum of activities on rare diseases. these actions make up an important part of the commission’s health and research policies and they have started to deliver clear added value to patients and their families. let me assure you that connecting expertise across europe is a priority of mine.
thank you, but i need to underline that, even though we do not have a heavy agenda this afternoon, i will have to ask you to respect the time that is made available. i will be strict on keeping to the time.
member of the commission. – mr president, let me react to the last speaker. i can tell you that if you are in the netherlands, you have ten people with a rare disease. you have no clinicians, no professors, no expertise or possibilities to treat those ten people. i spent more than 20 years in the field of treatment. this means that you can immediately ask in the eu: ‘where is the centre of knowledge, expertise, diagnoses and the possibility to provide assistance and treatment?’ it is also about a second possibility. let me address the issues raised by mr jakovčić. this is a very good idea and we are moving in such a direction. the european reference network is like the backbone that can help us to join together different universities, institutes, researchers, different developers of treatment, especially in advanced therapies, or so called precision therapies. of course, we are now trying to encourage member states to sign the one million genomes agreement because real diseases are genetically—driven diseases. this means that we can build a ‘collider’ of systems at eu level, joining different actors and being a leading entity worldwide, developing new treatments, new devices, new diagnostic tests, and helping people worldwide to stay alive. cooperation here with different actors is welcomed and we are doing as such. big data needs big actors and it is very important to understand this. the different national registers are too weak to address the issues we are now facing and i am very keen to promote such possibilities to build networks – a ‘big collider’ – in bringing different actors together and establishing mission—driven initiatives on different rare diseases cases. this is brilliant. on the joint procurement agreement, you know that we have in our hands a joint procurement agreement which allows us to encourage member states to cooperate, especially knowing that treatment and new medicines are very costly and only economies of scale can help us to guarantee access to treatment. we are also in favour of not discriminating against patients – they could be in the netherlands, lithuania or in cyprus – access to innovative treatment is a universal human right and we need to do more to achieve this right. it doesn’t matter whether a patient is in malta or in finland. we should speak about and think about those issues. it’s clear that no single country has the knowledge or capacity to tackle these diseases alone. if we work as individuals, patients will suffer from a lack of diagnosis and delayed or ineffective treatment. but together we can share best practices and expertise. we can coordinate resources. we can pool data and act more efficiently – more effectively and more decisively. patients across europe will benefit. so rare diseases are a prime example of the power of cooperation. this is true for research support, registers, codification, and in particular the european reference network. but we also need to make sure that patient groups and ngos maximise the potential of the eu’s health policy platform. access to medicine is one of the challenges facing patients suffering from rare diseases. we are aware of this. indeed, access to healthcare is one of my priorities and i ask member states to cooperate. now we have different member states who have decided to cooperate. there is the valletta group cooperation – i am speaking about access to treatment. benelux, the netherlands, belgium, luxembourg and austria, they are cooperating. we are now moving in this direction. soon i should have the results also of an analysis of eu orphan medicines legislation. this analysis will help us ensure that patients have access to innovative medicine and medicinal products when they need them. let me finish by assuring you that the commission will continue its support for patients suffering from rare diseases. that commitment is reflected in the commission’s proposals – in particular the health strand of the european social fund+ and the horizon europe framework programme. i would now ask parliament to support the commission’s proposals in the next multiannual financial framework.
commissioner, thank you very much indeed for your response. the debate is closed. written statements (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the oral question to the commission on the spread of african swine fever by czesław adam siekierski, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development (o-00012/2018 - b8—0420/2018).
(end of catch-the-eye procedure) president. – commissioner, you have the floor for your closing remarks – the last commissioner’s remarks for this year!
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much indeed! i have listened with great interest to the views expressed during this debate. let me start with my reply to mr buda, because he mentioned romania. i would like to tell you, mr buda, that we started to work together with romania from 2015 when there was no case was in romania. we started to develop romanian capacities to detect and we started to finance laboratories, with a range of romanian officials. we invite romania to every meeting, presentation and training session. when in 2017 the first cases occurred in romania, first of all in different regions, outside the danube region – we immediately spoke to the romanian authorities, local authorities, regional authorities, actors and operators. i sent my veterinary team on the ground and i asked romania to please be very careful, because disease carriers could come from ukraine to the danube area because the danube is very difficult from a climatic point of view, because it is in natura 2000, and there you have no hunting strategies and there are problems with the elimination of carcases because the climatic situation it is very difficult. we started to think about possibilities of also inviting hunters, environmentalists, local leaders, but in romania you have problems with backyards. people do not always register their pigs, there is a deep cultural tradition. when such big outbreaks occur we immediately send the best experts, best teams, to eradicate it, to stop it, and of course we introduce very strict measures. it is true. in the romania case we introduced very strict measures and it helps us now to see and to monitor the situation addressing all the challenges. we have provided a lot of money to romania since 2015. you just mentioned the issues of carcases and machines. we assist romania to equip their possibilities to eliminate carcases from those difficult regions. in this case romania was very brave. they deployed the army, they did what they could. we provided a lot of money to romania. but one thing is our measures and another thing is the common agricultural policy. together with commissioner hogan we discussed how the commission can also help with financial instruments in the romania case. it is an everyday job, a very difficult job. that is why at the next meeting on 19 december we are inviting ministers of the environment and ministers of agriculture, once again to discuss what we can do. my answer to ms aguilera garcía. on african swine fever, hundreds of pages are available to all of us. if i speak about uncertainties we can provide you with full information about what we do every month, because we are revising our african swine fever strategy ever half year. we ask efsa to monitor the situation and to provide scientific advice every time – what can we do, what is the new data? how can we address the wild boar population? how can we have a common methodology to calculate more or less the density of wild boar? now we can discuss issues, how can we encourage member states really to work together in reducing the number of wild boar and their dense population because it is a very complex one. speaking about the possibility to provide more money. as i mentioned, from our side we provided eur 95 million to concrete measures, financing all concrete measures which were enshrined in the african swine fever strategy. one very difficult issue is with transport. hungary, the czech republic, and belgium were affected by long—distance trailers and we immediately used our teams to eradicate those zones. in zlin in the czech republic there were very good effects and now in the arlon area of belgium. we will eradicate it from the zone. in hungary there were two cases, not so far from austria, which were eradicated. but nobody can provide guarantees that drivers do not disseminate the disease because the schengen area has no borders, and now a slightly different situation compared to issues in spain which was not a schengen area and is a different situation. but now we are doing a lot, encouraging transport ministers also to draw attention to issues because the human factor is a very dangerous one in this situation. i was in moscow, i was in kiev, i was in chișinău, i was in minsk. we discussed those issues there with third countries. our proposal was simple. let’s organise common strategies, because it is now pandemic. now we know that african swine fever is in china. if you compare the spread of african swine fever from 2014 when we came to office, in 2014 african swine fever was only on the russian-european side. now, it comes to irkutsk and to china. we are containing it more or less at the eastern borders, including also a case in romania and the jump into one small area in bulgaria. but speaking about scientific measures, we provided money to discover new vaccinations. eur 25 million were allocated to those issues. i don’t know how the situation is today but at the moment there is no good positive result about the possibility of a real vaccine. maybe in the future, but nobody knows. speaking about more money, you know very well that the multiannual financial framework is now in our hands, in the hands of parliament and in the hands of the council. we proposed instruments, we proposed raising much more dedicated to prevention and preparedness, and how to really have enough financial instruments, but i think it is in our hands to do more. i can just tell you about trade. commissioner malmström was informed about the whole situation with our trading partners. i also visited three countries discussing possibilities of their removing their unjustified ban. now we are in a very tough relationship with china and with some countries, in a battle against trade restrictions with russia, but politically it is very complex. we could discuss possibilities to use reciprocal measures, but now we are discussing how we can eliminate unjustified barriers and regionalisation is the main instrument, which we did defend at wto level. colleagues, thank you very much indeed. of course my obligation is to provide the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri) with full information about what was done on the ground. i shall ask my services to send to you all detailed information because we provide the agri council with full information every month, and i am ready to provide the agri committee also with full information so as to eliminate all uncertainties about this issue. it is really a very challenging time and we need to act together.
the debate is closed. before declaring this session of parliament adjourned, i would like once again to thank all the services that participate in the smooth running of the plenary – this means the plenary secretariat, the ushers, the interpreters and everyone involved – for an excellent job. we are highly dependent on you. i wish you all a very good christmas and a good start to next year, and also to you, colleagues – those last remaining ‘warriors’ – the same, and especially a safe trip home. commissioner, the same to you. thanks very much for being with us.
i declare adjourned the session of the european parliament.
