i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the background to this request is as follows: the siemens corporation has announced plans to carry out massive job cuts and plant closures in europe, up to 7 000 jobs, despite record profits. the netherlands and germany are the main countries affected. this figure does not yet include the employees in the subcontracting and service industries. so we're talking about tens of thousands of people affected. we are talking about the future prospects of entire european regions threatened by the cuts. this is despite the fact that the plants are profitable and despite the fact that siemens has received more than eur 300 million in state subsidies in germany alone over the last 10 years. this is reason enough for our group, the gue/ngl, to ask that we deal with this matter here. i ask for your support, ladies and gentlemen, so that we can send a strong signal of european solidarity to the workers and so that we can work together to prevent mass redundancies in the future in profitable and publicly funded companies.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on energy efficiency, i cannot help but make a comment on the performance of the s&ds, mrs van brempt. the european parliament has voted to change the rapporteur, who has tweeted that he had agreed with the epp to 35%. you yourself tabled an amendment which is binding on 30%, and today in the house you are calling for 40%. do you even look through what the s&d is asking for? we certainly didn't. the 40% savings target, as narrowly decided by the committee on industry, is now at least alien to the world. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the better they develop, the less savings we have to make. i would like to say a word to mr turmes. we have increased gross domestic product by 53% in the last 25 years or so, while co2 emissions have fallen by 23%. this is a fantastic achievement of the european union. let us really continue in this direction and not burden the economy and the companies with too much. the world's not going to end tomorrow! (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. yes, of course. the commission has put forward an excellent proposal: 30% of the budget, which is binding, and a very clever link with article 7, on how these savings targets should be implemented in the member states without us having to charge them extra. and if we as a parliament were to support this proposal with a strong opinion, with an 80% majority, on the basis of the commission's proposal, then the same would happen in the trilogue. but if we go in with 40% or whatever, we will have a narrow majority, and then we are nothing in the trilogue, we are nothing at all, and the member states will do with us what they want. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i hope that the council will take them up. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm glad that i'm so popular as a discussion partner. it's not like anyone else is. thank you very much. we cannot be blamed for not seeking a compromise as the epp. i also know that the 30% that the commission has proposed and which the ecr supports is the sensible way forward. we must nevertheless speak with a strong voice in parliament. we must be able to find compromises here, and we must not leave with a very narrow vote. mr. gierek, i know you can scientifically prove that we do a lot of stupid things here. but we are politicians, and politicians must also be able to reach compromises in the end. and finally, the commission's impact assessments give us some reason to believe that with such a modest target, if we start with 35% and other things and then negotiate in the council, we will, after all, get a reasonable result.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask the honourable member: when you talk about energy poverty, are you aware that tenant representatives are warning against rent increases in view of the itre compromise on public buildings, which you supported? shouldn't we be a little more flexible? and the second: to the 40% target. i am one of those who supported this objective four years ago. but are you aware that there are recent studies, also because of the development of oil prices, that the 35% target might be more cost-effective, and could we not agree on that?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's energy policy is not undermined by the current crisis. the commission's proposal - excuse me, commissioner - was very weak on the subject of renewable energies, and the members reached a very good compromise. i urge you to support this compromise on renewable energy. the reports on governance and energy efficiency still need to be improved. we as the epp cannot support the committee's text, and we have serious reservations about the way in which the text is being taken, particularly in the area of energy efficiency and public buildings. that will cause trouble in the local councils and it will not ensure that we get a large majority here. that is why i ask that we reconsider and agree on compromises that are realistic and ambitious. then, on wednesday, we can send a signal to the world by a large majority: we want to implement the paris climate agreement. we want to be ambitious. we also take seriously the concerns expressed by the local authorities. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not i can start by agreeing with gunnar hökmark: it is always nice to discuss with claude turmes, but we do not always have to agree. the compromise on renewables is also good because we have a certain flexibility, and that is why the epp has decided to give flexibility in its amendment on efficiency. we can talk about the details, but we want flexibility. the commissioner has also said something about public buildings. if the greens and the socialists are prepared to withdraw the amendment to article 5, we would be one step further.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have just returned from the annual meeting of irena, the international renewable energy agency, and it is absolutely clear: europe can do more and europe must do more in energy policy to achieve the climate targets. irena has done a study for europe the remap study which clearly shows that it is possible to achieve 35% renewable energy by 2030 in a cost-effective way. irena has also calculated what we're saving in energy costs, in health costs, the staggering sum of between 50 and 130 billion euros. so we're not only investing, but we're also making a profit on the other side, and that's why i'm pleased that we've reached that 35 percent target. seár kelly and blanco lópez, congratulations on at least achieving that. we thought it might be 40%, but at least we got there. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted. there are good and bad: the good are promoted and the bad are taken out of the market - especially palm oil.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the retention of the derogation for electric fishing in this regulation is the subject of considerable controversy, and rightly so. how can this fishery be considered as environmentally sustainable by the european union when it is banned in a large number of countries, including china, the united states and brazil, which often have less stringent regulations and standards than ours? today, there is no evidence of the sustainability of electric fishing. it has been authorised under a derogation for ten years and has never been the subject of an impact study. no studies have been carried out to determine the impact of electric shocks on juveniles, fertility and invasive species. the result of this neglect is that sole and plaice are disappearing from the areas where this fishery is practised. the social impact is important: many small-scale fishermen have given up or will give up if fishing is not banned. a few days ago, it became known that the european commission had used a report from its scientific, technical and economic committee, claiming that it was favourable to this fishery. in fact, the report stated the opposite. the commission has also proposed that the council should be able to adopt a decision on the matter by the end of the year.
the commission has already done so. we see that there is a great deal of disagreement in parliament about the new fishing methods and the fishing gear to be used. this includes pulse fishing. mr mato has found a very good compromise with his shadow rapporteurs on the technical measures. we have already heard this from the honourable member. it is necessary that new fishing methods and gear be scientifically tested over four years and with appropriate scientific support. we have enough institutes in the european union to do this and that no more than 5% of the fleet concerned is equipped with them. this is an important point so that we can also settle the dispute between the dutch cod fishermen and the french and the germans and perhaps also the british - i do not know how long they will be here - . that is why i think this compromise is so good and i can only support the fact that we agree to it and put a lot of things back on the right track.
i have to say, madam president, the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's internal market is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. in berlin, these parties are currently promising a ceiling of a maximum of 220 000 persons per year and a limitation of family reunification to a maximum of 1 000 persons per month. the commission has already made a number of proposals. martin schulz says that if more people come, more people will come. there'll be more, a lot more, but they won't care. this is an intolerable scandal and nothing less than a blatant lie to the people. if someone wanted to devise a master plan for how to deliberately destroy a country through ever-increasing social migration, this is what it might look like.
i have to say, madam president, (speaker shows a picture.) this is agnes gereb, a hungarian gynaecologist, psychologist and midwife - an impressive woman whom i had the privilege of meeting at my european midwife reception here in strasbourg. a woman who has spent decades caring for pregnant women, who has delivered nearly 4,000 newborns, including at home, if mothers wanted. she was convicted of that a few days ago in hungary and put in jail. imprisoned for respecting the right of mothers to self-determined birth. imprisoned because she had less problems and fewer stillbirths than many clinics. imprisoned for respecting the rights of expectant mothers. i do not want to call into question national jurisprudence here. but we often talk about reproductive health here. where are the voices now? it's about the right to self-determined birth, it's about starting life in a human environment. i would like to raise my voice here for agnes gereb, for her and for the rights of expectant mothers throughout europe a cry for life.
president of the european council. – mr president, honourable members, i would like to wish you all the best for the new year and thank parliament for its excellent cooperation in 2017. before reporting on the main outcomes of the european council, i want to highlight that during the december summit, 25 member states launched permanent structured cooperation in defence. the european union must be both visionary and pragmatic if it is to be effective. more than half a century ago, an ambitious vision of the european defence community was created, but what was missing was the unity and courage to put it into practice. now, the dream is becoming a reality. permanent structured cooperation on security and defence (pesco) is the practical expression of our common will to build a european defence system. it shows that the union moves forward when we combine ambition and pragmatism. last september, i proposed a new working method to leaders, with the intention of speeding up decision-making in the council and tackling quite deliberately the tough issues in the areas where we are deadlocked. december was the first real test of this. we made a good start, with frank, open and constructive discussions on migration and the economic and monetary union (emu). in addition, we took concrete decisions on brexit, defence and a further extension of sanctions against russia. i am proud to know that europeans have stood united together with the ukrainian people against russian aggression for three-and-a-half years, and we will stay the course. on migration, member states responded well and generously to our request to refinance the north of africa window of the eu emergency trust fund for africa, and i would like to thank those governments who made it possible. however, irregular migration will remain a challenge for decades, not years, and therefore we need a structural solution in the form of a stable and predictable eu funding instrument. i propose to the leaders that we establish a permanent financing mechanism within the next multiannual financial framework to stem the flows of illegal migration. today i can report to this house that there was univocal agreement on the need to establish such a mechanism. we will discuss it in more detail at our summit in february. the internal dimension of the migration debate was, as expected, less consensual, although it confirmed the hierarchy of our aims: protecting our territory and keeping our promise never again to allow a return to the crisis of 2015 come first. additionally, while everyone accepts the need for solidarity, there is currently no consensus on what it should mean in practice. the challenge now is how to express the principle of solidarity so that all member states contribute in concrete terms and in a fair manner. all the leaders agreed to work hard to find a compromise by june. we will assess progress in march. on the emu, the euro summit discussed ways and means to reform our economic and monetary union, with a view to taking a first set of decisions in june. leaders agreed with my proposal to focus efforts on what is realistic while continuing discussions on the long-term ideas. in this regard, in the next six months, the work by finance ministers in the eurogroup and in the ecofin council will concentrate on areas where the discussion is more advanced, namely on the completion of the banking union, and further developing the european social fund (esf). if we achieve these two objectives, we will significantly strengthen the resilience of the emu, which is my major goal. discussions, including among the euro-area leaders, will also continue on those ideas that are less developed and have a longer-term perspective. for that reason, i have called the euro summit for march. finally, on brexit, leaders decided unanimously that sufficient progress had been achieved on the first phase, with citizens’ rights, ireland and the financial settlement as priorities. accordingly, the eu27 adopted the first set of guidelines for the next phase of the talks. this would not have been possible without the unity of the eu27, the hard work of michel barnier, and the constructive efforts of prime minister may. as regards our future relations, what we need today is more clarity on the uk’s vision. once we have that, the leaders will meet and decide on the way that they see the eu’s future relationship with the uk as a third country. it also means a new set of guidelines. the hardest work is still ahead of us and time is limited. we must maintain the unity of the eu27 in every scenario and, personally, i have no doubt that we will. if the uk government sticks to its decision to leave, brexit will become a reality, with all its negative consequences, in march next year, unless there is a change of heart among our british friends. (applause)was it not david davis himself who said, ‘if a democracy cannot change its mind, it ceases to be a democracy’? we, here on the continent, have not had a change of heart. our hearts are still open to you.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. other mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the december european council meeting has once again shown that in europe it is useless to have illusions, if only because if we have illusions we risk losing them very quickly. but we have shown that if we are willing to move forward together, we can overcome the obstacles and bring our views closer together. this is what we have achieved in the field of defence. for a long time, i have seen the perplexity, sometimes the amusement, in the eyes of my interlocutors when i advocated a defence union that would act in complementarity with the atlantic alliance. i am pleased to see that the circle of those who believe that this is the need for the coming decades has continued to grow, as no less than 25 member states have awakened the dormant beauty of the lisbon treaty, namely permanent structured cooperation. the european defence fund proposed by the european commission will complement these efforts and encourage further cooperation, including with regard to the potential financing of certain projects presented under the framework of permanent structured cooperation. that is why i call on this parliament to adopt its position as soon as possible on our proposal for a european defence industrial development programme. it is essential that negotiations with the council open swiftly so that the first defence capability projects can be funded in 2019. i would also like to point out that the research component of the european defence fund is already well advanced. on 22 december the commission awarded a first grant to a collaborative research project to identify the main future trends in the field of innovative technologies for the defence sector, which, as you know, is evolving very rapidly. other projects will follow soon. mr president, the december european council was an opportunity for the leaders to have an honest debate on migration. it was a time to show the progress made over the last three years, because there has been progress. europe has shown that it can act quickly and decisively when it matters, saving lives at sea, setting up a european border and coastguard, reducing arrivals and being a continent of solidarity. the point is not to say that there is no work to do in this area. it is to show that a comprehensive european approach is the solution to our common challenges. this was not a european council to talk about the past or dig up old arguments. it was about how we strengthen this european approach in the future. we spoke of the need for all member states to show solidarity and responsibility, and i welcome the solidarity shown by member states, notably the four visegrád countries, in providing additional funding for the africa trust. there were also other forms of solidarity that mattered. contrary to what the cassandras told us, relocation is working. more than 95% of those registered in greece and italy have been relocated. over 11 000 foreign people have been welcomed come from italy by other member states and over 21 000 from greece. i expect the remaining eligible candidates to be relocated soon. in particular, we must urgently help unaccompanied minors; 392 of them are still waiting in greece and italy. but what we have seen is that a few member states have shouldered most of the responsibility. i would like that to change, and i would like some people to stop arguing against the efficiency of a system which they themselves are making inefficient or are undermining. as we look to the future, leaders must look at all elements of our comprehensive reform of asylum rules. we need to equip ourselves with a modern asylum system that manages migration. that means returning economic migrants not in need of protection and offering the same standard of conditions for genuine asylum seekers across the union. this is the year when a global deal must be agreed. i count on this house and on all member states to show the courage and determination to bring this reform to a successful conclusion. mr president, 2018 is also the year in which we must make our european economic and monetary union future-proof. it was therefore also more than a gesture that in december the very first euro summit took place, in which all 27 member states and not just the 19 euro-states took part. the euro is the symbol of our unity, it is the currency of our union, and with the exception of the united kingdom and denmark, all member states have the obligation and the right to join the euro area as soon as they have fulfilled all the conditions. i have never pleaded for this, but i still read, especially in the german press, that now, tomorrow morning at eleven o'clock, the non-euro-states would have joined the euro. but i wanted to remind you, was vertragssache ist: the contract states that everyone has the right, if the conditions are met, to join the euro area. and that will also happen, but not tomorrow morning at eleven o'clock. we have already protected our currency against possible future storms and will be better prepared, thanks to the banking union, among other things. so sind unsere banken seit 2014 mit 234 mrd. eur mehr kapital unterfüttert, und der anteil notleidender kredite ist seit 2014 um ein drittel zurückgegangen. so are our banks since 2014 with 234 mrd. eur more capital underfüttert, and the share of notleidender kredite is since 2014 one third backgegangen. so are our banks since 2014 with 234 mrd. eur more capital underfüttert, and the share of notleidender kredite is since 2014 one third backgegangen. but we cannot rest on our laurels, but we must take advantage of the current economic climate to make the monetary union stronger, more efficient and more flexible, and therefore we must further deepen the banking and capital markets union. president tusk has already pointed to this, was on the arbeitsprogramm der nächsten sechs monate steht: european monetary fund and other efforts in the same direction. that is why i need not explain yesterday in detail. the commission is seeking to implement the fiscal pact in eu-recht. the rat had decided so. and i would have liked that now also folge is being done. we will be working hand in hand with parliament and the member states in this sense in the coming months. president tusk has said a few words about brexit. he said that our door is still open. i would not have liked that the dying in london be heard. (beifall)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. other mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the politicians start with the problems. so i want to start this year off with a congratulatory message. i believe that what was achieved in the field of defence at the december council is a historic step for the european union. we are making progress in an important area and we must maintain this momentum in 2018. the second issue, migration, is more difficult. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i would say that if people were to look at the debate, they would be more likely to speak of chaos when they see the european council. disunity, no will to come together, no will to reach consensus, and there is great political damage: the populists are made easy. if the political class does not deliver, populists have an easy game, and for that reason perhaps the european council should take a cue from the european parliament for a while. we have made clear progress here on the question of the dublin reform, where we are bringing together solidarity, humanity and security. the third point i want to mention is about brexit. it is good that we are now starting the second phase preparing for march 2019, but i have to express already now a clear warning: do not take the conclusions of a transitional period for granted. if the conditions are not good enough the european people's party will not give its consent, and the cliff edge is far from being avoided. there is a lot to do in 2018 when we have brexit in mind. we saw over the christmas break a lot of complaints from our british friends: david davis complained that we are preparing for all scenarios (what a surprise!), and chancellor hammond complained about access of the city of london to the single market (what a surprise that we have changes there!). my message to london is: please don't complain anymore; please deliver. give us an outlook on what you want to achieve for the future relationship. the most drastic example of the lack of leadership is probably the debate about the colours of the passports in great britain. just before christmas, prime minister may announced that, after brexit, britain would return to the blue passport. this would be an expression of the uk's independence and sovereignty. the first problem in this respect is about honesty: the whole story is a scam. eu law does not say anything about passport colors. croatia has had a navy blue passport for years already. you didn't have to leave the union for that, so why don't you tell the people the truth? the second problem is a much more serious problem: it is about priorities. nigel farage immediately celebrated the new blue passport, and i quote: "that is the first real tangible victory for the people who voted for brexit". unwittingly, nigel farage was right. not about the victory, but it is true that the blue passport is the first and only real thing the british government has achieved in more than one and a half years of negotiations, so if i were a british citizen i would be deeply concerned about the priorities of my government. that is why i now ask the british government to come to the point on what is on the table to prepare the future perspective for the brits. we are ready to negotiate. europe is united. we wait for london.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i am not so convinced by the summit because, in all the big questions that are on the table, the council, the member states have not really made any progress. i am also tired of this pick-up between the member states, and i am also tired of the right-wing populists and eurosceptics constantly trying to make us pay for the european union. we can really make something of this. the european union is a great achievement that we have achieved. but it is not going to do it alone either, we ourselves must do something to make it go ahead in the european union, and among 'us' i include the member states, each of the governments, which must also come to an agreement on the big issues and not just the small ones. or for example, in the asylum question: they say, okay, lockdown, we can agree on that, but unfortunately not on admission, and then we say, well, maybe next time. this can't go on forever. the euro must finally be made resilient and socially acceptable, and economic union must be made more solidary and, above all, more democratic. we must also take action to combat climate change. we have an opportunity in this house this week, which we hope we will not miss, on the question of the energy package, but the member states must also take the lead. i have already touched on the asylum system, which is one of the big questions, because it also involves the substantive question of solidarity: how do we stand on this? what is our view of european 'living together'? this too is coming through, as is the question of how humanitarian and humane do we really want to be? and the rule of law. the european union is being hollowed out from within by the erosion of democracy and the rule of law that we are witnessing in some member states. how can we trust a member state which, for example, politically occupies judicial posts, or makes it difficult for independent journalists to work, or describes ngos which are co-financed by the european union as being controlled by outside parties? it is quite right that the commission has initiated the article 7 procedure against poland - we are also dealing with the hungarian question in the european parliament - and now it is time to act on the member states again. there must be no hiding or avoiding conflict, which is really essential and fundamental for living together in the european union. i wish we could make progress on these issues in 2018, because when else is it going to happen?
mr president, i have three questions for you and a proposal to make. the first question is: do you agree with me that brexit is a true lose-lose situation, not only for britain but also for the european union? my second question is: do you believe that brexit is also a personal defeat for yourself? my third question is: do you not believe that it is now the time for the european commission to do everything possible to avoid this catastrophe of historical proportions? i have heard with great interest, and i must say with a positive surprise, the remarks of president tusk, and your remark, that the door to britain is always open. here is my proposal: why do you not support a new european initiative called ‘a new deal for britain’, aimed at avoiding brexit in the first place? if you cannot do that, at least tell the british that, should they change their mind before 28 march 2019, they could revoke article 50. mr president, i do not think that you want to go down in history as the president who lost britain.
mr president, mr president of the european council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! i believe that the european council has taken an important step in this direction by officially putting forward the defence union. it should be made clear to some people here, as it was to those who spoke before me, that this will help europe to regain its sovereignty, and that is a very important point. i hope that in all the reform measures in germany we will have a government that can act quickly and not so many people who are plunging into irresponsibility. i also think it is important that the question of proposals for the development of economic and monetary union be put forward on the basis of the commission's proposals. and, mr president of the commission, i think it is extremely important to say that the euro is the currency of the whole of the european union, that there is an obligation for all countries - with the exception of the special arrangement for denmark - to follow it, and that it is right to help these countries to achieve this objective. let me make a few remarks on brexit. we must now quickly have negotiating lines both for our definition of the transitional arrangements and for the negotiating objective. and i believe that we are on the right track in the cooperation of the commission, the council and the european parliament. the following points must be kept in mind: the phrase in the first-round guidelines that a country leaving the eu cannot have the same benefits as a country staying in the eu and bearing the conditions and burdens, in my view, must be the degree of assessment. i think we can achieve something on that basis. we can already negotiate the future trade agreement in this second phase, but the time will not be enough, for that we need the transitional arrangements - a transitional arrangement in which the full acquis of the european union, including the european court of justice, applies. it must also be clear that cherry picking is not possible. when i hear here that the city of london is proposing to create special regulations here and that they want canada plus plus plus: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. london cannot carry out tasks which are the responsibility of the european union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commissioner has already said that he is not in favour of the the member states of the european union and the european union have the same interest in protecting their interests and the same rights as the united kingdom, and we must strike a fair balance between them. you want - and you have said this time and again - no agreement at all and you use every argument to make it clear that you do not want a suitable solution at all. you are against any solution, and that is why you do not accuse us of finding a balanced compromise. i believe that this alibi for the total crash is your responsibility and the responsibility you bear for your own country. and the question of the future of jobs in your country is your responsibility. and we see in the polls that you're losing support in your own country.
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen! months have passed without any answers to the crucial questions surrounding brexit. what are the conditions under which european companies can trade? what are the rules, what are the customs duties, for the export of goods such as german cars to the british isles? it is a question of hundreds of thousands of jobs in germany and the rest of the european union. the commission and the heads of state or government are risking this without any need, because they are abusing brexit above all to make the exit of other countries from the eu as unattractive as possible. this wrong focus is almost deliberately harmful to the economy, workers and consumers. since the treaties of rome, the european project has been about the free exchange of goods and services within europe, but also with the rest of the world. it's a shame that with brexit, suddenly no one wants to remember that.
mr president, it’s the same problem here. why don’t we vote electronically from the beginning? then we can work a bit faster. that is my suggestion.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is as follows: the implementation of the peace process by all sides is of the utmost importance and we should be instrumental in this. we must see that this can only be done with a great deal of conciliation. i am extremely grateful to president santos for having the courage to take part in this peace process. this is a great achievement, given the circumstances and the political context in your country. i also have sympathy for those who have had victims in their families - victims of death caused, for example, by the farc. if you do not take this into account and do not know how difficult it is to initiate such a process of reconciliation when there is personal concern, you will be talking nonsense. i believe that such bridges must be built and that this means a longer social dialogue also in such a country. it also means that you should not act as if the poor farc people were the victims. they've done a lot of evil, too, and killed and kidnapped people. this should not be forgotten in this context. but now that agreement is here, it should be handled in a sensible way. it is therefore necessary that paramilitary forces should also be involved in this peace process and that new disturbances against peasants should not arise. i think the situation in this country, as in many other latin american countries, has to do with the fact that there is a high level of social injustice. only if social injustice is overcome, only if class differences are overcome, can there be a lasting process of reconciliation in such countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we must also put a lot of money into our hands, and that is also a question for the americans. the repressive fight against drugs is not enough to fight drugs. we should also have an interest in seeing that colombia is built up sensibly, that social injustice is eliminated, because that is the most important precondition for ending the cultivation of drugs. and that is why i believe it is much cheaper for americans and europeans to put a lot of money into helping colombia to overcome drug cultivation, rather than just fighting drug use and drug trafficking through repression. we should therefore encourage ourselves to be much more generous in our support for such a country.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i agree that the european union has a special responsibility to support the peace process which is so important and meaningful for the people of colombia and, beyond that, for many other countries in the andean region and in latin america. it's not secure, but it's just as fragile. this includes co-responsibility for the decisive and irreversible implementation of the roadmap for the human rights, social and environmental commitments of the colombian government under the eu-peru-colombia free trade agreement, now in its fifth year. because the social, political and economic reality is very concrete for every person in colombia. let me put it this way: the eu's trade policy must not jeopardise the peace process. the trade balance has developed to the disadvantage of colombia. agricultural products from europe and the united states forced thousands of small farmers to abandon their farms again, and rural exodus brings new social dynamism to the cities. the question of land is undoubtedly - and this has already been emphasized here - a crucial one. what happens to the land and resources in the areas formerly controlled by the farc? will small farmers lose their land again? are international investors coming in? the existing trade agreement leaves us little room to react to the new situations - but we must react!
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, today we are here primarily to discuss the internal situation in iran after the recent demonstrations and violations of human rights, but let me first say a few words on a different matter, which is our work to preserve the nuclear deal with iran. two years ago precisely, on 16 january 2016, the international atomic energy agency verified that iran had implemented its nuclear—related commitments. as a consequence, the united nations, the european union and the united states lifted their nuclear-related economic and financial sanctions. this was an important milestone to guarantee that iran’s nuclear programme can only have a peaceful nature. the european union has a clear and consolidated position on the joint comprehensive plan of action, which was reiterated by all 28 foreign ministers on 16 october last year. we are – and stay – committed to the continued full and effective implementation of all parts of the jcpoa. over the past two years, the iaea has confirmed in nine reports that iran is implementing all its nuclear—related commitments under a comprehensive and strict monitoring system. members will have seen that last friday the united states extended the sanction waivers, and we are now, together with the e3 and the other eu member states, carefully assessing the statement and its implications. just a few days ago, high representative mogherini chaired a meeting in brussels with the iran foreign minister mohammad javad zarif and with the foreign ministers of the e3, the three european countries that participated in the negotiations of the deal. they all agreed that the deal is working and must be preserved as it is crucial for the security of europe, the middle east and the world. last week’s meeting was also an opportunity to discuss other issues which we are concerned about but are not related to the nuclear deal. these issues include detentions in the middle east, iran’s ballistic missile programme as well as the protests that took place in iran in recent weeks. let us be clear, all these issues must be addressed and must be addressed outside the scope of the nuclear deal. none of them would be easier to address if the jcpoa was not in place – quite the contrary. so turning to the main topic of this debate. since the end of 2017 we have focused our attention on the demonstrations in iran. the high representative intervened clearly with a declaration on 2 january after consulting all 28 member states and speaking on their behalf. the declaration spelled out that the loss of human lives in iran was unacceptable and that freedom of expression had to be guaranteed. we also raised these concerns directly with the iranian authorities, including at the iter level. according to our information more than 20 people including security personnel died during the events and there are reports of deaths in prisons. iran should investigate all human rights violations and hold the perpetrators responsible. the rights of those arrested in the context of the protests should also be respected in accordance with international standards. it is positive that president rouhani stressed that there must be room for peaceful expression of criticism, both in the streets and online. it is key that these declarations be followed by consistent decisions and action. most observers believe that the economic situation has been the main driver behind the protests, and the economic engagement between the european union, its member states and iran, that was consequent to the entry into force and continued full implementation of the nuclear agreement is also aimed at improving the economic situation of all iranian citizens. but we shouldn’t forget that the restrictions on civil and social freedoms in iran have also been one of the top concerns of the iranian people and of course for us. we, the european union, have never refrained from raising human rights issues in our contacts with the iranian authorities. for instance human rights were the first item on the agenda at the last high-level dialogue last november and we will continue to discuss these issues in the framework of our bilateral relations. our engagement with iran, as i mentioned, has also focused on improving the economic situation of iranian citizens following the lifting of all nuclear-related sanctions. we have encouraged trade and economic engagement with the constant goal of benefiting the people of iran. for that reason we have established technical cooperation with iran and stand ready to help with the necessary reforms. there is no shortage of experience within our member states which can be shared. the lifting of sanctions was an essential starting point for the improvement of the iranian economy, but it is not sufficient; some challenges are also structural and need reforms. these include addressing barriers to investment and weaknesses in the areas of transparency, the rule of law and banking, but also a stronger fight against money laundering in line with the standards of the financial action task force. this would lead to a more balanced distribution of wealth within iranian society, which was one of the basic demands coming from the streets in recent weeks. the people of iran aspire to a more open, free and fair country and we europeans have always been on their side. we have not only called constantly for the respect of human rights in public statements and in private conversations, but we have also chosen to engage with iran to accompany and encourage reforms in that country. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i will start with a quote: "people have a legitimate right to demand that we see and hear them and to act on their demands". that's a quote from iranian president hassan rouhani, and like most people in this room, i could probably sign that statement. however, despite these statements, developments in the country remain worrying. the violence against peaceful demonstrators, as commissioner hahn has just described, with the deaths, injuries and imprisonment of thousands of critics of the regime, is the sad record of the past few weeks. people in iran, from all walks of life, are angry about corruption, nepotism, the curtailment of their freedoms, and also the fact that their taxpayers' money, in the billions of euros, is being diverted annually to highly problematic activities in syria, iraq, yemen, or to hezbollah in lebanon. it is now up to the political and religious leaders in tehran alone to improve the situation of their discontented citizens in their own country through political change. the commissioner has already rightly pointed out the difficulties in foreign policy, and i do not wish to add anything to that. but what i would like to say is that we as the european parliament should make it very clear that first of all the authorities in tehran should respect the rights of the protesters and respect freedom of expression and assembly. secondly, we support the appeal to the iranian leadership not to use force to suppress the protests and we call on those responsible to put their words into action. this includes the right to peaceful demonstration and the release of political prisoners. these are the points which the foreign affairs committee should and will address on the spot during a delegation visit to iran from 12 to 16 february.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the images from the iranian cities are worrying us. we are deeply convinced that human rights and civil liberties are the right of all people - in brussels and hamburg, but also in tehran. this includes freedom of expression and demonstration, and we are concerned about the harsh, sometimes violent, reaction of the iranian authorities. the dead protesters, the many people who are being detained, are unacceptable to us. they're not a sign of strength either, quite the opposite. however, we are also convinced that demonstrations themselves must be peaceful and non-violent if they do not want to lose their legitimacy. we also have problems with iran on other issues: the missile programme or anyone who questions israel's right to exist must expect our bitter resistance. nevertheless, or perhaps precisely because of this, it is important to speak up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. there are also some initial advances, for example in the application of the death penalty. the iranian government has taken the first steps in the right direction here, and more should follow. i agree with the iranian government's demand that we not interfere in its internal affairs - for example, by actively supporting uprisings. but we must be able to speak of universal human rights, and the missile programme and israel's right to exist also concern us and our fellow citizens. the socialists expressly support the clear position of the commission and the high representative and all the other parties to the so-called nuclear deal. this is a good example of what diplomacy can achieve. iran is sticking to it. there is no reason to question it - on the contrary, it can help build trust so that other problems may one day be solved by talking together. to question it is to lose faith, to lose the ability to solve a problem and to destroy irresponsibly what we have achieved. it's time for the american president to come to his senses.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we mourn the demonstrators who have lost their lives simply because they have publicly expressed their legitimate demands for better living conditions, for work, against the drastic price increases and for a livable environment. the deaths of these protesters must be investigated to ensure justice for their families. we strongly share president rouhani's view that protesters have a right to demonstrate. that is right, and we also think it is wrong that khamenei and the clerical leaders, for example, threaten the death penalty. but the consequence must be the immediate release of the detained protesters, and that is a central demand we have. the struggle for the future of iran has already begun. the situation can only improve if the country opens up, and there is now a window of opportunity that cannot be closed from the outside - not even by an unpredictable us president. that is why it is right for the eu, for countries like france, germany or the uk to stick to the nuclear agreement with iran. because iran is sticking to the deal, and because we should have a minimum interest in stopping the nuclear buildup in the middle east. we don't want to renegotiate the agreement either. iran does not need more sanctions, it needs sanctions relief, and that includes access to international banks. at the same time, it is essential to make a step forward, and a clear step forward, in the dialogue on human rights, particularly with regard to religious minorities, political rights and women's rights. it is a matter of very important issues, such as employment, the future of the iranian youth, drug prevention, withdrawal from yemen and other countries. these are practical questions, and the solution to them will determine the future of iran. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we are committed as the eu to a responsible policy that takes account of the people of iran.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the nuclear deal is an essential factor of stability in a region where millions of people are already suffering from armed conflicts and crises. the deal is also a success of european foreign policy. this is evident in the face of continuing and dangerous provocations from washington. the eu and its member states are united and united in their support for the existing nuclear deal. the 2015 nuclear deal has also raised hopes for domestic reforms in iran, which have so far been largely unfulfilled. this is also reflected in the demonstrations last week. initially, the protests focused on socioeconomic issues, especially price increases and high unemployment. political demands soon followed, culminating in the overthrow of the government. the demonstrations led to mass arrests and at least 25 deaths. these deaths must be investigated and the prisoners of peace released. president rouhani has expressed conciliatory and self-critical tones to the protesters. but there is an urgent need for a process of rethinking within the entire iranian leadership. but after rouhani's re-election, the situation of human rights defenders has worsened further. the repression is appalling: very long prison sentences and official statements denouncing activists as foreign agents and traitors. those who are threatened with repression are fighting for freedom of expression, for women's rights, for independent trade unions and against the death penalty. as anti-death penalty activists, ms narges mohammadi is serving a 16-year sentence and ms atena daemi is serving a 7-year sentence. and the writer golrokh ebrahmi was also sentenced to six years in prison, just for texts that denounce the cruel practice of stoning. the eu must use all the means at its disposal to speak about human rights and to call for improvement, and to increase its support for human rights defenders. and it must do so in all talks and should not discriminate between whether such debates are now being conducted on the nuclear deal or on the other issues as well.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are talking about iran today, where dramatic developments are taking place. people are taking to the streets and demonstrating for a better and freer life. anyone who dares to do so deserves our full sympathy. it is the right of every human to seek happiness and to complain about his government. the mullah regime of president rouhani is probably one of the most corrupt and incompetent regimes in the world. i warn you, however, that the so-called west is meddling in iran's internal affairs. all of these attempts have failed again and again, some of them in horrible ways: iraq, afghanistan, syria, somalia. we must put an end to such interventions! the west is mindlessly supporting al qaeda's syrian offshoots, as well as the wahhabi system in saudi arabia both misjudgments of a grandiose scale, which prove: we should stay away from the middle east for good.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i've rarely seen such a dishonest debate as this. first you impose sanctions, you get the ten years, you put iran in the economic and financial end, and then you complain that the protesters are taking to the streets. where did the demonstrators get the weapons they used in the shootings? we know this from the maidan, we know this from other countries in the arab spring, and now it's iran's turn. they are always very quick to come up with sanctions against russia, against iran, against syria. but what about sanctions against other countries which violate human rights and commit war crimes, such as the united states of america, saudi arabia and israel? there are enough states. the european union has a duty to help the people of europe. so, first, go back to your own door. lift all sanctions, give iran a second chance!
i have to say, madam president, the demonstrations in iran were originally against cuts in social spending. there is still a lot of unemployment and poverty there. what's that to us? after iran has fulfilled all its obligations under the nuclear deal, it is now up to us - the eu and the us - to lift the sanctions. we know that the united states is not living up to its commitments. but we europeans are not fully complying with them either, because it is still not possible to transfer money to and from iran via normal banks. but there are banks that are willing to do business with iran despite the threats from the us. now it is important that the politicians send a positive signal that this is really happening. this will help the iranian people. we're on our way. i ask you, especially the commission, to help us here.
for the spontaneous speeches that follow, i remind you that you have one minute each. i'm not gonna say it every time. spontaneous speech
mrs. ward, i'm sorry you didn't deliver your speech in time. i can't make an exception now. you're right, i know. i was also disturbed by the fact that so many men and especially so few women applied. but that's because the problem is that women haven't come forward. we must now continue the discussion. you are welcome to stay and then ask for the spontaneous wording at the next debate. then we have you on the list.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, this was a very fruitful, useful, interesting and partly shocking exchange and i thank honourable members for their interventions. when it comes to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, our first concern is always to be as effective as possible. sometimes our action may be discreet, but rest assured that we never refrain from raising human rights issues at all levels, in all formats and at every opportunity. this is what we did after the recent events and protests and we will also do so in the future. when it comes to the individual concrete cases which some have raised and asked about, i cannot provide you personally with information as i have not been in the meetings of the high representative. i believe that the debate we have just had also shows that the european union is united on the need to uphold the jcpoa. its continued implementation is in the security interests of the european union. the nuclear deal with iran has allowed us to have a frank dialogue on issues of concern which are outside the scope of the agreement. in fact, these issues of concern, in particular ballistic missiles and increasing tensions in the region, are constantly raised in the relevant fora, including in the high-level dialogue. as i said before, we will coordinate with the eu member states to jointly assess the us statement and its implementation.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
in writing. i support the commission's position. people in iran, from all walks of life, are angry about corruption, nepotism, the curtailment of their freedoms, and also the fact that their taxpayers' money, in the billions of euros, is being diverted annually to highly problematic activities in syria, iraq, yemen, or to hezbollah in lebanon. the iranian government's violent crackdown on peaceful protesters is unacceptable and should be sanctioned if the behaviour continues. i hope that the political and religious leaders in tehran will take action.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in kenya (2018/2511 (rsp)). unfortunately, mrs mogherini is unable to attend this meeting and is being represented by mrs malmström.
madam president, the eu, including the european parliament, has deployed election observation missions to all kenyan general elections since 2002. the presence of an election observation mission has always been seen as an important instrument to support kenya in navigating a potentially difficult election and consolidating the country’s democratic path under its new constitution. so naturally for the 2017 elections an election observation mission was also deployed. i was in nairobi for the elections on 8 august, heading a seven-member ep delegation which was integrated in the long-term eu mission headed by our chief observer, marietje schaake. it is important to stress that our eu election observation mission made a very balanced evaluation of the electoral results. all the members who were there, including myself, observed the process in nairobi, kajiado and naivasha and reach conclusions which were fully in line with the mission’s findings. i would also like to point out that right after the elections when the opposition issued a press statement that the election it systems had been hacked and the election results fundamentally compromised, it was the international observers, and especially the eu election observation mission, who unanimously called on political leaders to act responsibly, to pursue any complaints through legal dispute mechanisms, and to ensure their supporters remained calm. this was a crucial moment in this difficult electoral process. we should support the eu election observation mission and our chief observer marietje schaake, the analysis and conclusions they made and the ensuing 29 recommendations which were presented last week in brussels. as in the past in kenya, the entire electoral process has been extremely difficult and created a lot of tension in the country. now it is time for the government and the opposition to engage in a constructive dialogue in a spirit of reconciliation. it is time for the kenyan politicians to bring the people together and work towards an inclusive and socially cohesive society for all kenyans. political parties have an important responsibility in this process, including by becoming more programme- and more policy-focused, and overcoming their reliance on ethnic divisions. finally, the challenges and questions around the kenyan elections have triggered a reflection, including consideration of the growing role of technology. we as the european parliament, together with the european external action service, should reflect on how to better face the new electoral challenges in this respect. in addition, in mid-2018 the democracy support and election coordination group will organise a high-level election observation conference with the participation of representatives of eu national parliaments and international organisations, where the case of kenya will also be further discussed and looked into.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if i have heard some of the speeches today, i would like to warn you, as one of the members of the electoral observation commission that was in kenya in august, that this is not a mirror image of the kenyan elections. we as election observers have not seen that the electoral process has been seriously flawed grossly distorted . we also haven't seen it hijacked by any multinational organizations or corporations. what we saw was a free and fair election. everywhere we went, kenyans were able -- and they have insisted on being able -- to vote freely and secretly and unimpeded. and the elections were very well organized at the local level, at least where we have observed. the report we adopted also emphasizes this. and he points out that the european union election observation commission has compared over 1 500 results, selected and documented at the local level, with the results published centrally, and that no significant deviation has been found that significantly favours the result of one candidate or the other. if there were any irregularities, they were far less than what would have been necessary to change the outcome of the elections. the fact that confidence in the democratic process in kenya has been seriously undermined here is the responsibility of the defeated candidate, mr odinga, and it is very regrettable that this has been brought forward in this sharp form by nasa and by mr odinga, because kenya had a great opportunity here to build confidence in institutions and to strengthen democracy in its own country. unfortunately, this opportunity has been largely lost. the country is divided now. but the opportunity presented itself. and the eu should also make clear who is to blame for this fatal development.
i have to say, madam president, it has already been emphasized by the commissioner and by my predecessors: kenya is one of the key countries in africa in terms of stability, economic growth and cooperation with the european union. that is why the elections in kenya on 8 august last year were highly anticipated. the president was elected, as were the members of parliament, the members of the senate and the regional and local authorities. after previous elections were marked by violent clashes, with many deaths, and violent clashes during the pre-election process, the question arose whether the august 8 elections would be peaceful, especially since a new electronic voting system was tested and the member of the central election commission responsible for the electoral process was found tortured and murdered shortly before the elections. the more positive my surprise as an election observer was that the election day was peaceful and the kenyans went to the polls with commitment and with great discipline to accept the time-consuming electoral process. the events after the elections are all the more regrettable. the obvious loser, odinga, refused to accept his third consecutive defeat. the supreme court annulled the presidential election but only this one, not the other five elections, which were conducted according to the same method as the presidential election , and just before the date for the re-election, the challenger odinga withdrew his candidacy. he's now, it's been reported, planning to have his followers swear him in as president. conflicts between the different ethnic groups to which kenyatta and odinga belong are already commonplace and have already claimed many lives. the eu election observation mission has analysed the electoral process in an unbiased manner and has made recommendations on how to ensure that the elections are conducted in a transparent, fair and democratic manner. it is most regrettable that the publication of the report of the eu election observers in kenya was prevented by the authorities there. kenya needs europe as a market but also as a partner to maintain stability in the region, but the eu needs kenya as a partner for the same reason. we should continue to engage with the kenyan authorities, but also make the people of kenya feel that the eu is not leaving them alone in the difficult situation they are in.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we want kenya to be a stable and economically prosperous country. i hope this isn't wishful thinking. i think we all have every reason to contribute to the political and economic stability of kenya through our cooperation. we also sent observers to observe the elections, and we did not introduce special rules for kenya, but we applied the rules that we apply everywhere. i therefore expect the commission and also the european external action service to give their full support to the head of our observer mission, who has done an excellent job, and not to allow her to be criticised in a blatant manner by various political parties in kenya. it is almost like the way the vice-president-in-office is putting down a colleague here in poland. that is also an unworthy way to go about it, and i hope that this is the last meeting of the committee on budgets under this vice-president.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in 2011, human rights activist abdul ghani al khanjar was sentenced to 15 years in prison in bahrain, after being tortured for days. the reason for his arrest: peaceful participation in anti-government protests during the arab spring. the police showed him printouts of his complete phone records as evidence. the only way to hack into this data is through surveillance technology imported from europe. there are thousands of examples like this. and with the recent demonstrations in iran and tunisia, this is exactly the kind of targeted surveillance that is happening in our day. the european union must not be complicit in human rights violations. that's what this is about, and that's non-negotiable. we are fighting for a trade policy that promotes security and stability in the world and prevents the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and intelligence. man is above profit. i am very proud that we have been able to agree with my colleagues from all the political groups in this house on important values-based principles in the dual-use regulation. i see that there are no amendments and i hope that you will all join me in voting for this report tomorrow so that parliament can be united and go into the trilogue negotiations strongly. i would also like to thank the commission in particular for its excellent draft, which already contains many elements which are very dear to me personally. i would like to express my gratitude to commissioner cecilia malmström and to mr stéphane chardon for their work. our design is designed to modernise export controls for dual-use goods and close dangerous loopholes. it's about time. through revelations and investigative journalism, we see that dictatorial regimes use european spyware to spy on, imprison, torture and kill their people. that's still happening today, and we're fighting it. as we have done with the torture goods regulation and the conflict minerals regulation, we will continue to trade on the basis of value. we are calling for clear definitions, uniform penalties for infringements throughout europe, uniform conditions of competition so that the industry will continue to know exactly where it needs authorization. the catch-all clause for highly dangerous surveillance technology is narrow enough to not interfere with legitimate exports, and broad enough to close known loopholes. if an export violates human rights, it cannot be authorized. technical developments in surveillance technology are accelerating, and the limited catch-all clause and the related european list are to be continuously expanded. the normal legislative process is too slow for that. it is therefore sufficient that one state recognizes the problems and that, if the overwhelming majority of the other states agree, this becomes law. we also call for more transparency, the publication of all relevant data on licences and the participation of ngos in the legislative bodies, because the industry is involved anyway. we demand that encryption technology be removed from export controls as a major defense against surveillance. and it is particularly good for the economy: we are supporting the commission in converting most export licences into a general clause which cuts red tape. i thank you for your attention and look forward to the debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if you were a journalist working outside the european union and you suddenly discovered that there was a trojan on your pc, that your communications system was being monitored, and you were told that third parties knew exactly what you were talking about, how would you feel? i do not think it would be very comfortable, and if we were to find out that the technology was coming from europe, then i think it would be clear that we would have to have a different set of export controls for such technology. technologies that can be used for surveillance and suppression, but also for billing phone calls. that is why we must draw a clear line here, so that such technologies cannot be used to violate human rights. that is why we have tightened up the legislation in five areas. firstly, transparency: nowadays hardly anyone knows which applications are submitted, which exports are approved and which are prohibited. sometimes you can get it out with parliamentary inquiries sometimes there are leaks. we want this information to be made public on a quarterly basis. it's already having an impact on practice. secondly, we want to hold companies accountable, so that they not only look at what is on the list, but also look for themselves whether our products, for example, restrict freedom of expression. and as the commissioner has just said, this should also be clarified by means of a handbook guidelines so that the due diligence of companies can be steered in the right direction. we want to adopt a catch-all approach, in addition to the list-based approach, whereby products that are subject to special monitoring in the longer term are included in lists, because in the field of information and communication technologies in particular, development is much faster than what we can achieve with lists - so here too we want to make improvements. we also want to ensure that there is greater harmonisation of practice within the european union, so that it does not matter where you apply. fifthly, it is not possible for post office boxes in dubai, for example, to circumvent export controls. the legislation therefore also applies to branches and letterbox companies outside the european union. and i am also glad that we have negotiated together with the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for a long time and sometimes even postponed the vote in order to develop a clear common signal from this plenary, which i think is good. because it's absolutely clear that human rights are more important than economic interests.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the other parties for the good and constructive work they have done on this important and sensitive dossier. the commission's proposal to make a new proposal after 2006 was overdue, because of course the techniques have changed and evolved a lot in that time. i would therefore like to expressly support the compromise reached - or perhaps i should say the sum of many compromises. i hope that this will give our parliament's negotiators a strong negotiating mandate. my group supports the reform of the export control regulation and stresses the need for modernised export controls which take account of changing political and economic challenges and of technological developments. we also support the principle of making the protection of human rights more closely linked to dual-use export controls than before. at the same time, however, we have paid and continue to pay special attention to the practicability of the regulation. it must include practical and precise definitions of human rights and control criteria. we need not only vague principles that anyone can interpret, but which can also create unnecessary bureaucratic obstacles. a key principle is that only truly critical exports are focused on, thus facilitating the export of less risky items. there is no question that we are committed to more uniform export controls adapted to the new digital methods, but at the same time we do not want to restrict the progress and export of modern technologies used for legitimate and legal purposes. the objective must be to close remaining control gaps at eu level in a timely manner, in particular in the area of digital surveillance technology. the commission has also concluded that the measures in question constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. in conclusion, i would point out that we need modern european rules, but we should also be pushing forward our multilateral work. in order to keep pace with the rapid advances in technology, it will most likely be necessary to update this directive on a regular basis. this is an appeal to the commission.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. a few days ago, the film "poland before the riot test" was shown on television. the film was accompanied by a journalist in the constituency of our esteemed colleague róża thun. the film depicts problems faced by the opposition in poland at the moment from the filmmakers' point of view. after the film, critical protesters are arrested despite having registered demonstrations, and young people who invite opposition members are fined. mr president, if the report is correct, you have compared the journalist to a nazi film director and our colleague róża thun has been insulted in what i consider to be an irresponsible way. (the president cut the speaker off)
i shall get to that in a moment, but we also have the right to free speech, and we should be able to point out things in the european parliament. mr president, we all have a bad day and make mistakes. so my simple request is that you either apologize to the lady and the journalist or take the consequences and resign as vice-president of this house! and now, to fulfill your wish: we have seen the situation - and many colleagues have spoken about it - that goods and products from the european union are also used to oppress people. it is good that we have the situation where the european commission has proposed to us an amendment to the existing regulation. we must urgently face the new technological and, unfortunately, political challenges in other countries of the world. and we need to do more than we have done to ensure that european products are not misused. in this sense it is good that we have done a very good compromise with this bill - mr buchner has done a very good compromise here - not only mentioning our human rights on sundays but also enforcing them in production and sales. secondly, we have made some improvements in areas where the european commission may have gone a little too far in the first place. we have improved legal certainty for businesses. in this sense, i thank you very much for your proposal, i thank you very much for the work of this parliament and i think that we are responsible in our efforts to ensure that our companies do not undermine the rule of law in other countries of the world without their knowledge and without their will.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. new technologies open up the possibility of abusing certain digital services for the surveillance of individuals and groups. the updating of european regulations on dual-use goods would be a political success, and is in line with a demand made in our last electoral programme. it is therefore all the more important that this regulation be finalised before the end of the mandate. the european union must be empowered to act quickly and flexibly in cases of abuse. it is not possible for made-in-europe products to be used in human rights violations. the eu has already banned the import and export of instruments of torture, but now it is also regulating the export of products that can be misused for espionage. the next step must be to finally introduce binding legislation at eu level on arms exports. this demand is all the more pressing in view of the planned european financing of the defence industry. the european parliament should be given a say in exports of european-funded armaments projects.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not the speeches have shown that the european parliament and the commission are ready to pursue a value-based trade policy for dual-use goods. i would like to make a very brief comment on the remarks made by mr loones, who is sadly no longer here, but i think that the problem he raised is one which is driving more colleagues around the house. it is about how to prevent such a dangerous product from being transferred within a company to a branch outside the eu that can no longer be controlled. there is no general theoretical answer to this, but recent experience has shown that we can trace such originals. we can follow the path, and then eventually it gets to the regimes where we want to prevent its use. we've seen this in the examples in bahrain, iran and many other countries, so it's possible if you follow this, and the advantage of this article in our regulation is that we can actually punish the company in question, which was not possible before. i call on the council, and in particular on the bulgarian and then austrian presidencies, and on all the member states, to express their views as quickly as possible so that we can move as quickly as possible to the trilogue negotiations. we're ready, now the council is on the move. in conclusion, i would like to thank the commission and all the shadow rapporteurs once again for their cooperation. it's not just a figure of speech, we all come from very different backgrounds. i would like to thank you once again for the willingness to compromise, for the fact that we are almost all in favour of this document, and i hope that this unity will continue in the vote tomorrow.
a writer. the commission has already done so. trade has advantages. i think that's more or less indisputable. however, this does not mean that the benefits of trade are available to all. it is precisely those who produce the values for trade that sometimes do not receive them. and that is why it is of the utmost importance that the fundamental rights of workers, such as the freedom to form associations and trade unions, are guaranteed, so that the benefits can also be enjoyed by those who produce the value, and not just by multilateral companies. and there's also an aspect of competition. it is not possible for trade to allow unfair competitive advantages to exist through environmental dumping and social dumping. both of these considerations lead us to include rules protecting fundamental workers' rights and environmental standards in our trade agreements. the key question, of course, is how do we build them so that they actually work? we've had approaches in the past. i would just like to remind you of the agreement with korea, where we have indeed integrated a sustainability chapter, with, for example, domestic advisory groups - made up of companies, workers and ngos - accompanying the process. however, it has been found that their potential for action is very limited. there are no proper rules of procedure, the appointment is not as simple as we had imagined, and there is no provision for the domestic advisory groups to take legal action. that is what led us to say: we need improvements. and in the course of the discussions on the agreement with canada, the ceta agreement, we have called for precisely these improvements and now we have a revision clause in the ceta agreement to modernise and enforce workers' rights and environmental standards. so this is where we need to start looking at how we can make improvements. the commission has recently launched a so-called non-paper product which actually contains two options. one option is that we basically continue as we have been. and the other option is: we look at the us model, sanctions in the area of the trade agreement, if there are violations of workers' rights or environmental standards in connection with trade flows. i don't think this model can be ours. it's not manageable and it doesn't really address the needs. the question is: is there not a third or fourth model between these two, where it is clear that enforceability is being designed with other mechanisms and compensation for the victims of violations of workers' rights and environmental standards can also be built in? i myself have tried, together with the friedrich-ebert-stiftung, to propose a third model which would introduce a clear three-stage system, domestic advisory groups with reasonable rights, a panel of experts who can make binding judgments for both partners and then an enforcement mechanism if the panel of experts' judgement is not accepted. so the question is whether we should not discuss other models besides the two proposed ones and how to approach the process. this question is hidden behind the request for an oral answer, but also the question of how we proceed with ceta. we have said that after the provisional application we want to enter into negotiations to reform and develop the processes, so we take the revision seriously. the question is: if we do not have a more developed model, should we not have such revision clauses in other trade agreements? otherwise it becomes difficult to convey why we act in one way and in another. and of course, there is also the question of how the public - business and trade unions - are actually involved in the process.
mr president, commissioner malmström, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. do you know thomas mann? in his novel the buddenbrooks, he has the protagonist say: "my son, be happy with the business during the day, but only do such that we can sleep peacefully at night". this is what i want to put into the text of the trade agreements for europe and the commission. over 70 free trade agreements have been concluded by the eu in recent decades, and they have always been about day-to-day business. but the reaction of the citizens shows us that many can no longer sleep at night. time for a new culture of fair trade, time to give human rights, environmental standards and social standards the importance that fair trade deserves. let's stop preaching water and drinking wine. fair trade does not need sunday sermons; fair trade needs action. and who else but one of the two largest economies in the world should be seeking that? who else would it be? i would therefore ask you whether you are prepared to have honest and fair trade. are we prepared, as europeans, to take the lead in reforming world trade, in a sustainable world trade whose central message is to put people first?
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i do not know whether we will ever be able to really enshrine the necessary standards in the sustainability chapters of our free trade agreements in such a way that they will also be effective, as long as the rest of our free trade agreements follow a different philosophy. sustainability chapters are not patches to be glued on, unless sustainability is the overall benchmark of an entire trade agreement. secondly, mr tusk once said in the context of the ceta debate that eu trade agreements should be designed in such a way that the interests of consumers, businesses and workers are taken into account in equal measure. we all know many examples where this has not been the case. but if we are to live up to this standard of mr tusk, which i think is good, we cannot say that we want to create special instruments to safeguard the rights of companies, but when it comes to the rights of workers, the problem is that there must be no sanctions. if i do not include a mechanism for enforcement, then i do not think that the promise of balanced consideration can be fulfilled, and it is not a question of always applying these sanctions. there is a beautiful phrase by former chess grandmaster nimzowitsch, who once said: the threat is stronger than the execution. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank you very much, mr bütikofer. i know that my hammer is a threat, too, which is better than the execution. but in this case, we're gonna have to watch our timing a little bit.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our trade agreements with the developing countries have a number of dire consequences. they force countries in africa to let our highly subsidized food enter unrestrictedly. in doing so, they destroy their own food production. many farmers have no choice but to sell their land or to abandon their previous production and grow coffee, cocoa, cider and other crops for europe and the united states. the companies that buy these products form a cartel and push prices down so that farmers can no longer live with dignity. free trade agreements also allow for land grabbing. the same applies to industry: protective tariffs are necessary to build up an industry of one's own with little capital. in short, trade agreements are not the issue here, but free trade agreements are only useful between partners with similar development. our trade policy is creating escape routes.
the commission has already done so. in the process of building the european union we have developed the commitment that the creation of common markets necessarily requires the regulation of environmental protection, health and working conditions here in the internal market, and we know what the reality is. the new trade agreements go very far in regulating trade and investment and provide for specific sanctions for infringements. in environmental and social protection they are left toothless. the instruments to enforce compliance with the commitments are lacking. examples: colombia, ukraine, moldova, the epa. the development of global production and value chains and investment requires new regulatory frameworks that can deliver on the clearly defined sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda. and one proposal for this would be, for example, to make a catalogue of core environmental, consumer and labour standards binding on all trade agreements, which would also have to be subject to the general dispute settlement mechanism.
the commission has already done so. the eu has, not least at the insistence of the s&d group, included sustainability chapters in several trade agreements. that's good. the crucial thing is whether the agreements are brought to life, and we have some shortcomings in that respect. so in that context, i just want to encourage three things: i think it's crucial to improve the monitoring processes. the most important thing is to involve civil society in its entirety - this is crucial - and to involve it as early as possible. it is also important to ensure that civil society has sufficient resources. this is not just a matter for the countries in which civil society organisations are located, but it is also a matter of ensuring that these resources are available, for example to produce or commission scientific expertise. the second thing is that when we have detected violations, we should be able to react appropriately and gradually. in this context, i would like to encourage people to think about the usefulness of sanctions against our own european companies. because with all the labour law violations in bangladesh, no one can tell me that the european retail chains didn't know this before thousands of people were burned there. so, there are ways to think about sanctions. and finally, the third suggestion: we must not always talk about sanctions, but also about aid and support when sustainability chapters are being respected. this is also very useful with some of our trading partners. and it is often better to act through incentives than through sanctions.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i say to those members – although they have left – who said there are no human rights in eu trade policy and that all that matters is the multinationals, i think that is totally wrong. the debate just before this one, on the report by mr buchner, was indeed about how we can increase export controls to make sure that dual-use surveillance equipment and other items are not used to abuse human rights. very recently, before christmas, you voted with a very strong majority in favour of the regulation for equipment that can be used for torture and the death penalty. before that, there was a vote on conflict minerals, so i think it is totally unfair to say that there is no human rights dimension in eu trade policy. today we are talking about how to enforce the chapter on sustainable development in our free trade agreements. we do not have free trade agreements with china or pakistan or equatorial guinea or other countries that were mentioned here. we are talking about free trade agreements that we have negotiated in partnership with other countries. so we need to find a way where they can also agree to have it included in the agreement and that is a challenge. but more and more countries actually do sign up to the same notion as we do, that trade policy should be value-based, should be progressive, should include elements that are not only about facilitating trade, but that are also sustainable and fair. when we meet in different conferences and so on, we have a group of progressive-minded countries – and that group is getting bigger – who do want to trade in this way. there are other countries where this is less obvious, and that is what we are talking about. sustainable development chapters in trade can be a very important tool here. we have seen that some countries have been persuaded by these chapters to involve civil society in trade evaluation; this has been very useful. i think we all agree that we need to enforce this in a much better way and we need to make them stronger. the question is, how can we do this in a way that that actually works? i do not have the final answer today. i know that some of you are calling for sanctions. this sounds attractive, but we need to find a way, as some of you have said, that is fair. we need to prove in a trade agreement that violation of human rights in sustainable development is actually trade-distorting, and that is not easy. i am still waiting for concrete suggestions on how to do that. we need to focus on how we can improve this. as i said, we have already received many useful suggestions and others have signalled to us that they are working on reports. they will send them in in the coming weeks and that is extremely helpful. we have been engaging broadly in conferences, my team has been travelling to many countries of the european union, you in this house have been active and many ngos and many national parliaments have been active in this debate, and that is very welcome because it shows that we need to find a way to improve this. there are many academic studies as well. many of them prove that engagement is more effective than sanctions, but we are looking at this and talking to different researchers and different academic environments to get more input on this. the debate will still continue. it does not have a formal deadline, even if, we should wrap up soon, but i want to give the chance to those who have signalled to us that they are working on proposals and suggestions to get back to us. when we have a clearer picture of this – and the debate seems to be fading out – i will be happy to come back to this plenary and further discuss it.
thank you very much, commissioner. i thank all those who have had the honour of listening to the commissioner's reply. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the president of the council in office. mr president of the european parliament, mr tajani, mr president of the european commission, mr juncker, ladies and gentlemen, chairmen of parliamentary groups, members of the european parliament, it is a great honour for us to be here among you, the people who shape european law, in the highest body of the european union, with whom i hope to work as well as possible over the next six months. i am also convinced that this european parliament has until the next elections a little time, but enough time, to do a lot of work on the basic laws that need to be adopted. i am convinced and i want to assure you that when you need our expertise on the western balkans, on cohesion policy and on migration, we are at your disposal to share our experience and, of course, to make any commitments you might wish to make. four are the priorities of our presidency: the future of europe and young people, as a top priority; the european perspective and connectivity of the western balkans; a secure and stable europe; the digital economy and the skills needed for the future, which are both directly and critically important for the entire internal market. i suppose that after your speeches and later after the questions, there will be a lot to talk about, but i would still like to share with you why and in which areas i think it is important during our presidency to make progress, to have a debate and to look for the most serious and true solutions. we have now spent 30 minutes with president tajani, and many times with the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, debating the dublin agreements, on dealing with the flow of migration. i dare say that bulgaria managed within a year to make the migration pressure zero. this has been achieved with a lot of work, and i think that at the bulgarian-turkish border we have shown how, together with european solidarity and assistance - thanks to the bratislava council, which allocated 160 million euros for technical means - with the efforts of the state and with the agreement we have with turkey, we can work to limit the migration flow to a minimum. and yet you know that we have a huge sea border on the black sea with turkey and a big land border. so on the subject of turkey, i think that the agreement should be signed, it should continue to work, and we should try - despite the strong position that we have and that we should defend in terms of media rights in turkey, in terms of the rule of law - to pragmatically try to solve the issue of the migration agreement to continue to work, because there are millions of migrants there that are currently being taken care of by the turkish side. of course, one of the main issues, one of the main arguments between member states is how to relocate migrants who end up in europe and how to take care of them. we will try very tactfully, very diplomatically to solve this issue, because on the one hand, in several countries of the european union there is a huge concentration of migrants - they put a lot of effort, spend a lot of resources. other countries don't want to participate in this process, and there's a third group of countries, like bulgaria, greece and italy, who are at the very entrance of the migrant wave, and i think we need to find a solution for them to help with the common protection of the european border. the solution, i think - something i have always insisted on for years - is to secure our external borders, to ensure that entry into europe is only through the checkpoints and that proper checks are carried out there. and for those who flee from wars, who flee from bullets and missiles, for which europe has always been the most humane, let us take care, but know that this will be until the end of military conflicts. or to create centers, safe centers that we can support and finance close to the military conflicts so that people can then come back and participate in the reconstruction of their countries, because maybe you've all seen on the news, the extent of the destruction where there's such a war. and those who are economic migrants, they should be allowed to go where they are needed. these are the suggestions i have for a solution, of course. you tell me how to do it. as far as the western balkans is concerned, there are several options, so we have proposed one which i do not think poses any risks to the european union. we are sure, we know, and jean-claude juncker was in sofia just a few days ago thank you to president tajani, to jean-claude juncker and to president tusk for coming to sofia for the opening of the bulgarian presidency that there will be no new member states from the balkans accepted into the european union during the term of office of this commission. at the same time, we must tell them very clearly and very honestly what hopes they can have, how our vision of their integration into europe will develop over time. i dare say, knowing the region, that this is the exact moment we should do it. you see how yesterday a shot in kosovo literally blew up the entire balkans, the negotiation process between kosovo and serbia, and immediately the mood changed. at the moment, the balkan peoples really expect and believe that, being geographically and historically in europe, they will finally have a plan for joining the european union. some are ahead, some are behind. i think that bulgaria and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia have given an exceptional example that there are countries in the balkans that with tact and goodwill can solve problems and not come to you with their problems. the good neighbourly agreement between bulgaria and macedonia, which has been dragging on for decades or being worked on, but which was not adopted anyway, was signed only a few days ago. the day before yesterday, the macedonian parliament passed it, ratified it, now, i hope, next week the bulgarian parliament will ratify it, but prime minister zaev was, as he said, quite brave, as were we. we really hope now between skopje and athens also to finish the process on the name, because it will give a great perspective to skopje. i say this not to annoy my greek colleagues, but to give a perspective on nato and the european union, because this is a place in the balkans that is like a cornerstone, the one that holds the buildings up and if it moves, the whole balkans starts moving. what would happen if we didn't make that decision, if we didn't work on building the infrastructure? i would just like to remind you that corridor 4, 8 and 10 are european corridors and we have a rare chance to prepare the western balkans for investment and tourism without any risk. let's not let them become depopulated, let's not let young and qualified people leave for america or europe and there's a predominantly elderly population, and then there's no one to work for the payment of pensions that ensure a normal life. bulgaria went through this road. and then there are completely different political parties and i don't know if the process can continue. if we don't do it -- the interest that russia and turkey and china and saudi arabia have in the balkans is great -- somebody else will. so we are ready to work with each one individually, i know the region, we have held many meetings with all the leaders both in sofia and in belgrade, and now it is time to give them perspective. i really hope that mr tajani, mr juncker and all of you will support me, because stability in the balkans is directly linked to stability in europe. and then we wonder where islamic militants came from or where radical islam came from, because there's a very fertile ground there, because of the large percentage of muslim population that lives in the balkans. the way out is a european perspective. they expect it, they want it. that way, we can have the necessary influence and security in this region. of course, on the subject of turkey i said. the subject of russia, with all the comments we have, there are member states who want the sanctions to be dropped, others are just the opposite extremely severe, they want to go even deeper. in the end, we will try to seek normalization with our other big neighbor, russia, but of course that far exceeds our threshold of possibilities. this will be a european-wide solution. in connection with all this, as we are already working with commissioner oettinger, with jean-claude juncker, with president tajani, we have now had a long talk, is the common european budget. i'm not putting it as a second priority. i have great faith in the european parliament and i rely on it, because the budget of a country or the budget of europe actually makes policy, it gives the challenges and through the budget and the funding of individual programmes, we will be able to protect a given priority. is the cap important? it's important, you know. is cohesion policy important? it's very important. if we, the newly admitted countries of central and eastern europe, the balkans, have prosperity, here i make a bracket: bulgaria has a 4% growth economy, 6% unemployment, zero budget deficit, huge fiscal reserve, fixed because we have a currency board, a lev to the euro, we are making efforts and i think we are ready for the "waiting room" of the eurozone, to a large extent these policies have contributed. they have contributed to what we have been able to build in the areas of infrastructure, competitiveness, educational infrastructure, environment, transport, and this is the place to thank all the donor countries that have helped so much for bulgaria, but i think also for the whole region. i have impressions of the former socialist countries before 1989, of what they looked like then. now, when you go to budapest, prague, bratislava or warsaw, the difference is huge. and i think that's where we have to find the balance of mutual respect for the donor countries that have given billions of euros for our accession, for us to reach and be competitive in their economies and for everything else, and what we have not only as a market but also as a culture, as a geostrategic location, so i think there's no better place than to walk all together and there's no better place to live. it's no accident that everyone wants to come to europe, to the european union. so cohesion policy must continue. i could go through the european common defence with just two words. with the tremendous geopolitical challenges we face right now, i think we're looking a little bit too much at the threats. we usually react long after they're done. we let entire processes unfold and we are a kind of spectators. we let the presidents of the big countries -- russia, the united states, china, turkey, iran -- make decisions on problems that we then actually face with a terrible power in europe. these wars are the source of the migration flows. when there were banking crises, then europe paid a big price and we were day and night - i remember there were meetings until 5 or 6 in the morning - solving the financial crisis in europe. i would like to pay tribute to all those who were running the council, the commission and the parliament at the time. i apologize if i sometimes get the wrong idea. it's not disrespectful, it's just a desire to use the time and speak quickly. but we've managed, albeit slowly, to deal with the financial crisis. europe is already growing, and i am convinced that there is no one better than us, that is for sure, than a united and strong europe. the energy union, the social pillar, what jean-claude juncker proposed yesterday... i have three options to calculate, long and orderly, but i want on the one hand to save your time, and at the same time to really feel what is very important to us and what we consider a priority and can with the questions then to us to clarify if there is something misunderstood. i don't want to miss yuri and the estonian presidency. i think estonia did a great job, they put a lot of effort, they were very modern. it would be a joy for us if we could get close to estonia's good performance. and i dare say that with the chancellor of austria, sebastian kurz, who is the next president in 2018, we already have maybe four or five phone calls. he will be coming to sofia very soon and we want to work on the bulgarian and austrian presidencies in such a way that in 2018 all the priorities we have, both ours and theirs, are not interrupted, but continue with your help in all the portfolios i have spoken about. finally, the extremely important role of the european parliament. i know there are many parliamentary groups, many different opinions. our strength is in this diversity that we have in europe. but in the end the most important and most valuable thing, what we in bulgaria have written to our parliament, is that "unity makes strength" that is why we have proposed and believe that this would be the most appropriate motto for europe as well: 'united we stand'.
president of the commission. – mr president, let me start by saying that one of the most pleasing aspects of the bulgarian presidency is that i will get to see my good friend boyko more often than usual. as i said to him when he hosted the commission in sofia last week, this is a special moment – for bulgaria, of course, because it is the first bulgarian presidency of the council – but also for me personally. it was under the luxembourgish presidency – with myself in the chair of the european council – that the decisions necessary to launch the overall enlargement process was taken in luxembourg in december 1997. as president of the european council once again, i had the honour of signing bulgaria’s accession treaty to the european union in luxembourg in april 2005. i remember the year 2005 for so many reasons, in particular because we signed the accession treaty in april. i remember that day like it was yesterday. i remember the emotion that i felt at seeing europe’s history and geography reconciled. i remember what it meant to a proud european nation to join its friends and allies in our union. the clocks you had installed everywhere throughout sofia counting down the days until bulgaria’s eu accession is a picture i always have in my mind. i felt a kind of ‘vorfreude’, as the germans say – ‘pre-happiness’, to some extent. the hope and joy we all felt on that day must never fade away. i even remember some of the words i used: that day i said (i sometimes say things like that) that ‘history without truth is like a day without light’, and the truth is that bulgaria had to come a long way to join our union. it had to make changes, in a handful of years, that other countries made in decades. it had to be patient; it had to be determined; it had to be courageous, and it was. today it is with great pride, but also with great expectation, that i look forward to the next six bulgarian months. monsieur le président, mesdames, messieurs, je me félicite que la présidence bulgare se soit particulièrement bien préparée pour ces six mois, car ces six mois bulgares seront cruciaux pour l’union et pour son avenir. j’ai pu constater la bonne préparation de la présidence, la semaine passée, lorsque la commission s’est rendue à sofia. pour les bulgares, pour nous tous, il s’agirait d’abord de finaliser les travaux sur les grands enjeux pour lesquels une action européenne efficace peut véritablement faire la différence. je pense notamment à la migration, à l’économie numérique et à la sécurité. le premier ministre a fait de la recherche du consensus l’une de ses grandes priorités. c’est toujours, en europe, un choix judicieux, qui s’impose aujourd’hui plus que jamais. depuis novembre 2014, depuis le début du mandat de la commission, celle-ci a présenté 89 dossiers prioritaires aux colégislateurs, dont 29 ont été adoptés à ce jour. d’ici au mois de mai, toutes nos propositions auront été mises sur la table des colégislateurs afin de permettre au parlement et au conseil de terminer le travail législatif avant les prochaines élections européennes. la grande priorité, voire l’urgence des prochains mois, sera donc de traduire ces propositions en actes législatifs et de mettre cette législation en œuvre, car plus le parlement et le conseil parviendront à conclure rapidement le processus législatif, plus nos concitoyens ressentiront rapidement les effets positifs de nos politiques dans leur vie quotidienne. le temps presse et j’aimerais vraiment que ce travail aboutisse avant le prochain rendez-vous des européens avec le suffrage universel. et puisque le «b» de bulgarie veut aussi dire «budechte», ce qui signifie le futur, il s’agira également de préparer l’avenir en définissant nos ambitions européennes pour les prochaines années, ainsi que le budget qui sera nécessaire pour les réaliser. il faudra évidemment faire des choix, décider quels sont les domaines où nous devons dépenser plus et ceux où nous pourrions dépenser moins ou différemment. c’est la raison pour laquelle je plaide pour un débat vertueux qui doit d’abord porter sur le fond des choses, sur les priorités, sur le contenu et puis sur les financements indispensables, et pas l’inverse. ne commençons pas le débat budgétaire en fixant des plafonds, commençons le débat budgétaire en nous mettant d’accord sur les priorités et sur les contenus. (applaudissements) herr präsident, meine sehr verehrten damen und herren! bulgarien hat mehrfach unter beweis gestellt, dass es zu europäischen kompromissen beitragen und brücken bauen kann – sowohl im kreise der jetzigen mitgliedstaaten als auch hin zu unseren nachbarn im westbalkan. dazu ist bulgarien geradezu prädestiniert, da es die region, die kultur, die menschen, ihre eigenarten, ihre sprachen kennt und selbst erfolgreich durch den schwierigen eu-erweiterungsprozess gegangen ist. wann immer ich nach der eu-erweiterung gefragt werde, verweise ich daher auf bulgarien, das großes geleistet hat, unter anderem in sachen wirtschaftliche entwicklung. die bulgarische wirtschaft ist im vergangenen jahr um 3,9 % gewachsen, die beschäftigung entwickelt sich positiv, bulgarien hat seinen öffentlichen schuldenstand und seinen haushalt hervorragend im griff, besser als viele mitgliedstaaten der eurozone. das sind beste voraussetzungen dafür, dass bulgarien dem europäischen wechselkursmechanismus 2 – dem sogenannten erm ii – und in einigen jahren auch dem euro beitreten kann. nominale konvergenz ist wichtig, aber reale konvergenz ist es auch. hier bleibt noch einiges zu tun, auch was den kampf gegen korruption anbelangt, und ich weiß, dass die bulgarische regierung sehr intensiv in diese richtung arbeitet. bulgarien ist eine regelrechte erfolgsgeschichte, die auch unsere nachbarn im westbalkan inspirieren kann und inspirieren wird. deshalb war es richtig, dass der bulgarische premierminister den westbalkan und unsere beziehungen zum westbalkan zu einem schwerpunkt seiner präsidentschaft gemacht hat. am 17. mai findet ein westbalkan-gipfel in sofia statt. das ist die richtige adresse, um über den westbalkan und unsere beziehungen zu den staaten des westbalkans zu reden. in sofia werde ich auch meine reise durch die balkanländer beenden, die ich ende februar/anfang märz vornehmen werde, denn ich möchte mich vor ort erkundigen, wie die erwartungshaltung der verschiedensten länder ist. und ich möchte diesen balkanstaaten auch sagen, was unsere erwartungen an die westbalkanländer sind. ein beitritt kommt nicht einfach so – er fällt nicht vom himmel, er muss erarbeitet werden. und ich würde hier gerne sagen – freundlich, möglichst freundlich –, dass alle grenzkonflikte, die es zwischen den westbalkanländern gibt, vor dem beitritt geklärt sein müssen. nicht dass wir, wie jetzt in sachen kroatien/slowenien, erleben, dass erst nach dem beitritt – jahre nach dem beitritt – über die anstehenden probleme geredet wird. die probleme – die grenzprobleme – müssen geklärt sein, bevor es weitere beitritte geben wird. (beifall) die länder des westbalkans verdienen es, dass man ihnen eine reale europäische perspektive gibt. diese beitritte werden nicht während der amtszeit dieses parlaments und dieser kommission erfolgen können, weil nicht alle bedingungen bis dahin erfüllt sein werden. aber das ziel muss klar benannt werden: das ziel ist der beitritt der westbalkanländer, und diese beitritte können erfolgen, wenn die notwendigen reformen in diesen ländern vorgenommen sein werden. dann wird der beitritt stück für stück näher rücken. wir haben gemeinsame projekte mit den staaten in dieser region – sicherheitsfragen, migration, transport, digitales, energie und anderes. die rechtsstaatlichkeit gehört zu diesen projekten, weil die rechtsstaatlichkeit das fundament ist, auf dem unsere union, die eine rechtsgemeinschaft ist, beruht. sie ist ein so grundlegender wert, dass nur staaten, die diese einhalten, beitreten können. wenn dies vor dem beitritt gilt, gilt es selbstverständlich, wenn man mitglied geworden ist, auch nach dem beitritt. (beifall) wir befinden uns in einem – ja – konstruktiven dialog mit der polnischen regierung. ich habe den neuen polnischen premierminister in brüssel empfangen, und beide haben wir uns mühe gegeben, unsere standpunkte sich annähern zu lassen. wir befinden uns nicht im krieg mit polen, wir haben eine auseinandersetzung mit der polnischen regierung. der rückgriff auf artikel 7 absatz 1 des vertrags ist keine sanktion. er ist ein feststellungs- und warnungsartikel. deshalb sollte man aufhören – auch in polen damit aufhören –, so zu tun, als ob wir wild entschlossen wären, polen – was auch immer geschehen mag – zu sanktionieren. das ist nicht der inhalt des artikels 7 absatz 1. (beifall) ich appelliere an den bulgarischen premierminister, an boyko borissov und seine regierung, sich konstruktiv und kompromissvorbereitend an diesem unternehmen in sachen rechtsstaatlichkeit in polen zu beteiligen. es gehört zu den aufgaben eines vorsitzes, kompromisse zu suchen. aber es gehört auch zu den aufgaben des vorsitzes, beschlossene entscheidungen des ministerrats umzusetzen, jedenfalls zu helfen, damit diese umgesetzt werden können. ich möchte diese rede nicht missbrauchen, um nun noch einmal einen langen brexit-exkurs zu machen. aber ich konnte gestern nicht alle fragen, die gestellt wurden, beantworten, vornehmlich die nicht, die unser kollege henkel gestellt hat. ich bin der auffassung, dass es in sachen brexit keine gewinner geben wird. dies ist eine lose-lose-situation, sowohl für die briten als auch für die mitglieder der europäischen union und für die institutionen. ich empfinde nach wie vor den austritt großbritanniens als eine katastrophe, ja als eine niederlage, die wir uns alle anheften müssen. aber die ursachen für die britische entscheidung liegen ja tiefer. wie frau may selbst gesagt hat, haben die briten sich nie wohl gefühlt in der europäischen union, und man hat ihnen auch 40 jahre lang nicht gelegenheit gegeben, sich wohler fühlen zu können. und deshalb trifft die schuld viele. wir – herr tusk und ich selbst – haben gestern noch einmal die hand ausgestreckt und der britischen regierung bedeutet, dass, falls das britische volk, das britische parlament, die britische regierung sich einen anderen weg als den des brexits wünschen würden, wir dann bereit sind, darüber zu reden. wir werfen die briten nicht raus. wir hätten gerne, dass die briten bleiben. und wenn sie das wollen, dann sollten sie das tun. (beifall) aber ich habe gemerkt, dass man in london fast pikiert auf diesen vorschlag reagiert hat. sei’s drum. aber auch, wenn die briten einmal ausgetreten sind nach artikel 50, gibt es auch einen artikel 49, der den wiederbeitritt erlaubt. das hätte ich gerne, und ich hätte gerne, dass wir jetzt vernünftig miteinander umgehen und nicht versuchen, den jeweils anderen ins abseits zu stellen. (beifall) herr henkel hat gefragt, ob ich mir wirklich wünschte, in die geschichte einzugehen als derjenige, der den brexit zu verantworten hat. das verlangt eine doppelte antwort. erst mal bin ich froh, dass herr henkel – und wir begleiten uns seit vielen jahren – davon ausgeht, dass ich in die geschichte eingehe; das wusste ich bislang nicht. und in sachen brexit habe ich gesagt, was zu sagen war. ich bin zuversichtlich, dass die bulgarische präsidentschaft ihre sache gut machen wird. premierminister borissov ist ein ausgewiesener europäischer demokrat mit einem festen willen und mit überzeugungen und überzeugungskraft. (beifall) aus erfahrung wissen wir, dass es nicht auf die größe des landes ankommt, sondern auf die willensstärke, die eine regierung beseelt. in sachen borissov und in sachen bulgarien ist alles stimmig, damit dieser vorsitz zu einem erfolg werden kann. blagodarya! for those who are less fluent in bulgarian, that means „thank you“. (anhaltender beifall)
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, mr prime minister! welcome to the european parliament and welcome to a historic hour: the assumption of the presidency of the council by bulgaria. if you put that in relation to the last 30 years of the fight against communism, the fight for freedom and today the possibility of bulgaria leading europe: a wonderful development that has taken place. the bulgarian people can be proud of this, because they have always been pro-european. bulgaria as a country can be proud and, mr prime minister, i believe you can be proud too, because you have also proved that you have led bulgaria excellently over these years, decades and have gained a lot of trust from your citizens. the first question now we have the bulgarian presidency is what can we learn from bulgaria? i think that's a good starting point, and one of the lessons we can learn is to look at the economy in bulgaria. the growth rate is double that of neighbouring serbia, and that shows that being part of europe means strong economic success. when you look at bulgaria, then you can learn that you can count on its values, it has a modernized state that is going forward with european values in the fight against corruption. that is what bulgaria has been doing in recent years, very successfully. and, finally, we can learn that bulgaria wants to be a full part of the european union. it has a clear idea about the next steps ahead: to be part of schengen and to be part of the euro area. the clear commitments from the bulgarian government gives us a clear indication that we should believe in our project. that is what we can learn from bulgaria, and now let's have a look at the tasks which are ahead of us. first, i want to underline what jean-claude juncker also said, that the most important thing will certainly be the debate about finances in the european union. the debate about the multiannual framework of our budget will start in the first half of 2018, and we as the epp ask for an ambitious approach. we support jean-claude juncker's view that first of all we have to define what the priorities for europe are, and then we have to talk about the necessary funding. the second task is migration. a sort of final debate in the european council about the migration challenge for the european union is planned for june. prime minister borissov underlined his country's success story in protecting the border. that is one big thing. the second big point in migration management is to practice solidarity inside the european union. hopefully we can manage in the next weeks and months to bring these two things together. on the management of the border, let me finally underline that we are asking for more european involvement, for there not only to be bulgarian officials standing on the border, but that frontex should also be more present in the border region. we ask for more frontex staff. finally, dear friends, the western balkans is the third task ahead; a really important task. the western balkans is part of europe and has a chance to become a member of the european union. when we and the commission look at the commission proposal on the enlargement process, we are in favour of this perspective for the western balkans and we as the epp want to focus mainly on concrete projects. people must see that it is a benefit, a positive development to be part of the european union. so let's focus on infrastructure, on railways, on motorways. that is what people expect from us. there's a lot to do. we wish the bulgarian presidency all the best, and the epp wants to support our friend boyko borissov.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to welcome the prime minister to our plenary. a presidency is always, of course, a very good time for a country to shine in the european union, but it is also always a great time to shine a light on the country specifically and to have a look at what is happening there. i think we can see a lot of things happening there right now: looking, for example, at the mobilisation of thousands of people on the streets, protesting for the preservation of a unique centuries—old forest – the pirin national park – which you are, of course, familiar with. they are protesting against corruption and a very dodgy decision to permit a skiing resort and also commercial logging in this precious natural heritage site, which is also protected by european union law. thereby, it is not just an environmental issue, which of course is important, but it is also an issue of how we respect european union laws and rules. there, i think, as a presidency, you should really lead by good example, and that is one area where i think you can make a big difference. (applause) eleven years have passed since the accession, but we have also had 11 anti-corruption reports by the european commission. bulgaria is still listed as the country with the most corruption in the european union. that is a great pity. also, looking at the anti—corruption measures that have been taken in bulgaria, many of them can be seen as ineffective and even counterproductive. for example, looking at the most recent anti—corruption law, which will say that whistle-blowers, i.e. people who from inside the administration highlight corruption cases, will face the danger of being persecuted. citizens may still have to pay bribes for access to public services, and there is still a problem with high influence on public life and media from very obscure circles. the commission cannot ignore all of those issues. i think the presidency is a great chance for you to improve not only that image, but also the situation itself, to go deep and really take on the fight against corruption, which will also greatly benefit the citizens of bulgaria. let us know how we can also support you in this very important issue. 2018 is a very important year for the european union, with the elections coming up. many issues that have been highlighted – the eurozone, finally getting real on climate change, social issues, the rule of law – are very important issues. you have picked a very interesting motto: united we stand strong. i think this is very correct and true: we have to be united and we have to be strong in order to address those issues. we also have to be strong as a european union of values which is fighting for democracy and against racism and xenophobia. i hope all of your ministers could sign that statement. if you are following through on this motto, then we are very much ready to support you all the way through.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, your presidency of the council is one year away from the european elections, and in this bulgarian six-month period we can prove together that the eu is capable of action and we can win the trust of the people together. if we succeed in setting the course for the medium-term financial planning - especially because of brexit - to be decided by the european elections, if we succeed in promoting stability and prospects for the future in the western balkans and in being much more present as the european union, if we succeed in solving the challenge of migration through even more reliable external border protection, solidarity within europe in burden-sharing and effective help in combating the causes of migration, if we succeed in further stabilising the monetary union, increasing our competitiveness and creating prospects for europe's young people, then you and your country can be proud of a successful presidency of the council and then we can look to the future of europe with greater confidence. good luck and good luck!
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. the three words above your parliament are: unity makes strength. i wish you would send these three words every morning to your 27 colleagues as a welcome message. but i am particularly pleased that you have just mentioned not only the eu countries but also those of the western balkans. here you will find many friends for this across party and group lines. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to support them. it is about taking concrete steps for serbia and montenegro, starting negotiations with albania and also appreciating the good work of your macedonian neighbours. the path is not easy, and that's why we have to tell people that we really want them. roaming and other measures would be a good contribution to this. mr. prime minister, you told us you also want to normalize relations with russia. you have my support, and it's about time.
taoiseach. – mr president, vice-presidents, president juncker, commissioner hogan, distinguished leaders of the political groups, members of the european parliament, dear friends, i want to say that it is a great privilege to be the first speaker in your series of debates with heads of government on the future of the european union. i believe that the european union is at a decisive point now in our history. despite all of the upheavals in recent years, the rise of populism and euroscepticism, nationalism and anti-democratic forces, we meet today in solidarity and with a renewed sense of purpose. the european ideal has always been inspired by a spirit of optimism and a belief in a better future. while that ideal has been tested, it has not been broken. based on the achievements of the past, we have a renewed appetite to face the challenges of the future. back in 1947, representatives from 16 countries met in paris to discuss how, in the words of jean monnet, they could resist economic decline and preserve political freedom. en 1947, des représentants de seize pays se sont réunis à paris pour discuter de la manière dont, selon les termes de jean monnet, ils pourraient résister au déclin économique et préserver la liberté politique. l’irlande était l’un de ces seize pays. la sagesse de la prédiction de monnet selon laquelle «il n’y a pas d’avenir pour les peuples d’europe autre que dans l’union» s’est vite fait jour. dès le début, les petits pays ont contribué de manière non négligeable au développement de l’europe. dans les années cinquante, joseph bech, luxembourgeois et grand architecte de l’intégration, a joué un rôle capital dans la création de la communauté européenne du charbon et de l’acier, et dans la tenue de la conférence de messine en sicile. interrogé sur la présence de politiciens européens réunis en sicile en 1955, un haut dirigeant politique britannique rétorqua que ces derniers avaient pris part aux fouilles archéologiques! des fouilles qui ont servi de base au traité de rome. wir sehen die stärke der europäischen wertvorstellungen im erbe der persönlichkeiten wie konrad adenauer und hans dietrich-genscher, deren vision für versöhnung und integration in ganz europa so wichtig war. wir sehen sie in der arbeit helmut kohls und seinem glauben, die bedürfnisse und gleichberechtigung kleinerer nationen zu beachten. und wir sehen sie in der vision jacques delors' und seinem glauben an einen tieferen sinn europas – eine seele für europa –, ohne den das ganze projekt scheitern würde. seine arbeit bei der schaffung einer gemeinsamen währung, des euro, ist ein bedeutsames erbe. seine aufgabe an uns, einen größeren sinn anzustreben, ist noch bedeutsamer. mr president, the promise of a better future has motivated people to work for the european ideal since the very beginning. and speaking in this chamber today i am reminded of one of the greatest figures in irish politics, and one of the greatest figures in politics from northern ireland, john hume, whose birthday it is tomorrow and who served as a member of this great parliament for 25 years. john hume spoke many times about the symbolism of the bridge not too far from here, connecting strasbourg to kehl just across the border in germany. he spoke about how easy and ordinary it was to walk across that bridge, and given europe’s dark history how remarkable and profound that ordinariness was. in the european union john hume saw a model and a vision for how a lasting peace, however improbable, could be fostered and built. and he saw how that model of people working together with a shared purpose and endeavour, spilling their sweat instead of their blood, as he put it, could provide an inspiration for my own country. today there is a peace bridge crossing the river foyle, bringing together the divided communities in john’s native city of derry in northern ireland, a bridge that the european union helped to build. dear friends, it is hard to imagine the good friday agreement being made without our shared membership of the european union and its single market, and in ireland we are now having to contemplate our future without that foundation which underpinned it and made it possible. that’s why the government which i lead has been so determined to protect the good friday agreement in all its parts and all that flows from it. and it is why we have insisted that there cannot be a return to a hard border on our island, no new barriers to the movement of people or to trade. and it is why we are so deeply grateful for the remarkable solidarity and support from other member states. it is everything we hoped for and proof-positive of why small countries benefit so much from membership of this union. (applause)and so the irish people are profoundly grateful for the unswerving support of this parliament, and in particular i want to thank your president, antonio tajani, your brexit coordinator, guy verhofstadt, the leader of the ppe group, manfred weber, and all of the other political groups that have been so supportive. the solidarity of parliament has been matched by the commission and the council. i’d also like to extend my thanks to president juncker, to the lead commission negotiator, michel barnier, and also to council president donald tusk. the european union has consistently recognised the unique position of northern ireland and the unique situation in which it finds itself given the decision of the united kingdom to leave the european union. a decision which we respect. notwithstanding that, the majority of people in northern ireland voted to remain in the european union, the majority of the representative elected to the northern ireland assembly want to remain in the customs union and the single market, and it is likely that the majority of people living in northern ireland will remain european citizens after brexit, because of their unique status under the good friday agreement which allows them to be british citizens, irish citizens or both. the breakthrough achieved before christmas means that the united kingdom has guaranteed that whatever the future relationship with the european union is, a hard border on the island will be avoided, and the common travel area and all the associated rights that flow from it will be maintained. as the negotiations move forward into phase 2 we will continue to rely on your support and solidarity as we work to ensure that what has been promised in theory is delivered in practice, and there can be no backsliding on this. so it is important that these commitments are fully reflected in the legal text of the withdrawal agreement and firmly embedded in the uk’s future relationship with the european union, whatever shape that ultimately takes. for my part i hope that the new relationship that exists between the united kingdom and the european union is as close and as deep as is possible, but consistent with the needs of the union to protect our internal market and customs union. mr president, i was born european and am part of a new generation of political leaders who were born after our countries joined the european union or its predecessors. we treasure what has been achieved and share the vision of the founders for further integration and cooperation. while i’ve always lived with the benefits of european membership, i’ve never taken them for granted. i very much value what was hard won by past generations and what they sacrificed for us. that vision delivered peace in europe and opened the door to peace and prosperity in my own country. these values of solidarity, partnership and cooperation which are essential to the european project have brought ireland from the position of being one of the least-developed member states when we joined the union to one of the most prosperous today. and for us europe enabled our transformation from being a country on the periphery to an island at the centre of the world, at the heart of this common european home which we helped to build. the promise of europe unlocked the potential of ireland and it allowed us to take our place among the nations of the world. so, along with other member states who’ve benefited so much from the european union, i believe we have a particular responsibility now to lead on the future of europe debate. we have much to offer and also much to give, and i firmly believe it is our responsibility and relish the opportunity. so we should approach, all of us, the debate on the future of europe with a positive attitude, talking about what we want to achieve for our citizens rather than what we want to block or resist. many of the policy challenges we face are increasingly global and they cannot be met by nation-states acting alone. issues such as uncontrolled mass migration, climate change, cybersecurity, international trade, the regulation of medicines and major corporations, many of whom are now bigger than states, cannot be solved by 28 countries coming up with 28 different solutions. in unity there is security, in cooperation there is strength. as we say in the irish language ‘ní neart go cur le chéile’, there’s no strength without being together. so we should, i believe, welcome those who aspire to and who are ready to take on the responsibilities and obligations of membership. the prospect of membership of the european union can be a powerful motivator for those who seek to build peace and freedom and prosperity and democracy in the western balkans and these countries should, i believe, be given a pathway to membership. mr president, i believe that in the europe of the future all european countries and all member states will be small states, even though perhaps they don’t realise it yet, and you only need to look at the list of the top 60 cities in the world in terms of population, only one of the top 60 is in the european union, and it is currently getting ready to leave. in terms of population now there is only one country in europe that is in the top 20 in the world, and its population is falling. so in a global context, we are very much now a union a small countries. and i know that population doesn’t equate to economic power or military strength, but there can be no doubt that these are also shifting east and south globally. so i think we need to stick together if we are to protect what we have and continue to export our values and worldview. (applause) a europe worth building is a europe worth defending and with the launch of the permanent structured cooperation on security and defence (pesco) in december, which ireland was pleased to join, we are coming together to answer new threats in an inclusive way. the threats we face in the 21st century include cyberterrorism, international terrorism, uncontrolled mass migration, natural disasters and drug and human trafficking, and we want to be involved in european actions against all of these. we definitely can’t do it on our own. my country also has a very proud history of military neutrality, participating in un peacekeeping operations and eu common security and defence policy operations, and we are not members of nato, so we will participate in pesco in a way that is consistent with those traditions as other countries will too. president, i believe the europe of the future must do four things. first of all, we should continue to do what we currently do well. secondly, we should focus on the big new challenges facing europe and its citizens. thirdly, where appropriate, we should devolve some powers back to member states, municipalities and regions. and, fourthly, we should engage more with citizens in direct democracy. ireland, as you know, has moved from being a net beneficiary of the eu budget to one that is now a net contributor. nonetheless, we’re open to contributing more, but only if it is spent on things that contribute to the advancement of the european deal and the european project. for example, structural funds for central and eastern europe to enable them to unlock their economic potential as we did. the european union should also continue to fund well programmes and policies that work and have stood the test of time, such as the common agricultural policy and providing funding for research, innovation, erasmus, interreg and the european investment bank, among others. budgets for these, in my view, should be protected. europe can do new things and europe should do new things, but new programmes require new money. ireland is a founder-member of the euro and a founder-member of the single market, and we were among the first to open our labour market to europeans from central and eastern europe. we now want to see the completion of the single market and the digital single market and, above all, a single market that serves the interests of all our citizens, and not just corporations. so i want to commend this parliament on the work it has done to make the lives of europeans better by removing roaming charges on mobile phones within the european union. that helps bring people together. your recent action on credit card charges and, likewise, i commend the way you’ve championed air passenger rights and your plans for interrail. now is the time to fulfil the promise of the single market in other areas. for example, take financial services, insurance, mortgages and loans, so that people can get cheaper loans from european lenders and insurers if needs be. i’d ask the parliament to work on this in the period ahead, and i think it is something that would very much be welcomed by our citizens. i also believe we should work much more closely on the cost of medicines, and new, innovative medicines in particular. this could save billions for taxpayers, freeing up funding to ensure that modern medicines are available to patients in every country at the same time, and countries are not played off against each other. so let’s pool the buying power of 450 million people to do so. i also believe in more free trade agreements with third countries and in completing monetary union, and i believe in a banking union to protect citizens’ savings on a pan-european basis and reduce exposure to individual member states. and i also think that a capital markets union would provide the building blocks for an integrated capital market across europe. in terms of improving democracy within the eu, i support a europe-wide list for the european parliament. i’d like to get people in cafes in naples and restaurants in galway talking about the same election choices. perhaps that’s an ambitious idea, but i think it is one we should strive for. (applause)and i believe we should also make permanent the spitzenkandidat system and democratise the choosing of candidates for other leading positions within the eu. and let’s establish as well a common asylum policy and system to replace the current system, which we all know is not working. too few countries have shouldered the responsibility of providing refugees with a fresh start in europe, we can all do more and we must. (applause)and let’s put fire back into the engine of our social europe by following through on the proclamation that we issued in gothenburg last year on jobs, employment rights and pensions, among other things. whatever our future holds, europe needs to be competitive economically. and one of the ways to ensure this is by allowing competition among member states, and i think this is particularly important for peripheral and less developed countries whose domestic markets are small and need inward investment. my strong view is that national taxes that fund national budgets should be determined by national parliaments and governments, but equally strong is my view that corporations should pay their fair share of tax, and we cannot tolerate a situation where large companies avoid paying any taxes anywhere. and that’s true for american tech companies as it is true for european car manufacturers and international aerospace and defence companies. (applause) ireland has already taken steps to close loopholes in our tax laws and will do more in the years ahead, but we strongly believe this should be done on an international basis through the oecd, as europe should not give advantages to our competitors on other continents by acting unilaterally. mr president, as a community we must also look outwards, offering leadership and partnership, especially when it comes to africa, a continent which is only eight kilometres from europe. and i believe that europe must show much greater leadership on africa, and i support the idea of an eu marshall plan for that continent. we’ve already witnessed the terrible impact that chaos in syria and lebanon has had on people in those countries and its impact on europe. libya and syria are small countries, imagine what would happen if similar events were to unfold in massive countries with massive populations, like egypt or nigeria. the consequences are too awful to contemplate for us and for them. by contrast, we can look east to asia and the successful development of those countries in east asia who have transformed themselves from countries to which we gave aid, to countries with which we now trade. so in the 21st century africa must succeed. it is in our interest and it is in theirs, so let’s make it part of our mission as europeans. i also strongly support the subsidiarity and proportionality task force. it is interesting to me and for many of us who travel the world that on many matters and many issues us states and canadian provinces, and even counties and municipalities, have greater autonomy and greater variation among themselves then eu member states currently have. so do we have the balance right? not always. and does everything have to be harmonised and standardised? i don’t think so. so, mr president, in making decisions i think it is vital that our citizens are engaged. in ireland we’ve launched a national debate, a citizens’ dialogue on europe and our starting point is to focus on the hopes and dreams of our citizens. led by our minister for europe we’re undertaking a series of regional meetings and other initiatives across the country between now and europe day on 9 may, and i strongly encourage other countries to do the same. mr president, it is been an honour, a great honour, to be the first european head of state or government to speak to the european parliament on this hugely important topic of the future of europe. all of you across all political groupings have enormous political experience, insight and knowledge. there is a mass of wisdom in this chamber and also imagination, and i believe it is the perfect place to debate our future as we move forward and to ensure that into the future that parliaments and governments are more connected to each other. i know that under the guidance of president tajani you’ve already started to discuss the issues in a thoughtful and productive manner, and even before the commission’s white paper you adopted three resolutions on our future. i hope that this first debate in this series and the others to follow will be lively and spontaneous, and i look forward to engaging with you during the course of this session. the european union has always offered the promise of a better future. it is a future that will not be handed to us, we must work to create it. we can achieve a more perfect union and we can speak to europe’s soul. our values, like peace, friendship, freedom, justice, opportunity and cooperation, are the values we are committed to in advancing on the island of ireland within our european family and in our relations in the wider world. europe has been a great success and we owe its achievements – peace, individual rights, equality before the law and prosperity – to that political creativity and the friendship that we’ve built together. i believe that europe is the outcome of one of the greatest acts of political creativity in human history, and that same creativity and vision of the founders should drive our work today. the european ideal took flight in the second part of the 20th century when people imagined a world joined by mutual interest, trust and affection replacing one that was torn apart by jealousy, fear and animosity. building on the great successes and achievements of the past, i believe that with our imagination, with creativity, with courage, we can provide a soul and a heart for europe, creating opportunities for all of our citizens, and we can ensure that the european ideal that took flight in the last century will soar in the 21st. mr president, i want to conclude with a few words in the first official language of my country. a uachtaráin, creidim gurb í an spiorad dearfach agus creideamh i dtodhchaí níos fearr ba chúis le hinspioráid an idéil eorpaigh i gcónaí. murach an eoraip, ní chuirfí ár dtír i gcuntas i measc náisiúin na cruinne. táimid buíoch do bhallstáit na heorpa as a ndlúthpháirtíocht agus as an aire a thugann siad dúinn le linn chomhráite brexit. deimhníonn sin an fáth a bhfaigheann tíortha beaga tairbhe as a mballraíocht in ae. anois tá an deis againn eoraip na todhchaí a shamhlú. ba mhaith liom leanúint ar aghaidh leis an dul chun cinn atá á dhéanamh againn, agus díriú ar na dúshláin mhóra nua atá i gceist. ba mhaith liom go mbeadh páirt níos gníomhaí ag saoránaigh i ndaonlathas díreach. tá súil agam go léireoidh an eoraip níos mó treorach faoi chúrsaí na hafraice. tacaím leis an smaoineamh maidir le ‘marshall plan’ don afraic. agus muidne ag cur le rathúlacht na laethanta atá thart, creidim, le samhlaíocht agus le misneach go mbeimid in ann anam agus croí a chur ar fáil don eoraip, agus deiseanna a chruthú dár saoránaigh go léir.
member of the commission. – mr president, to be very short, i could not agree more. but i have to deliver a speech because the disappointment would be too great if i did not do so. i wanted to say that i am delighted that my good friend leo comes before this house today, and i would like to thank president tajani and the parliament for holding this timely debate on the future of our union. this is the first of its kind and i hope the first of many. since he became prime minister, leo has proven to be a committed european. i knew this before, but he has proven it by being where he is for the time being. it is fitting that today we remember with sadness another true irish and european statesman. i would like to pay my personal tribute to peter sutherland. he was the first ever commissioner to receive the gold medal from this house. i was deeply saddened to hear of his passing. peter sutherland was a proud irishman, another giant of european politics and a friend of so many. he will be missed, but his legacy lives on. as peter in the past shaped our policies of today, so can we shape the policies of the future with the choices we make today. it was less than a year ago that i presented to you the white paper on the future of europe: five possible scenarios for our project. since then, the debate has picked up in all corners of europe. the white paper set a new approach – debate, not dictate – and the white paper and the different scenarios are still inspiring the debate across europe. however, the future of europe cannot remain a scenario. the time to take decisions is now, because citizens will head to the polls in may 2019 and, in doing so, they should have a clear understanding of how the european union will develop over the years to come. last september, i therefore presented to you my very own vision for a more united, stronger and more democratic union: a union where solidarity and responsibility go hand in hand in all policy areas, from migration to the banking and monetary union, from energy to our common budget; a union where the rule of law is not optional but the very basis of everything we do, from implementing decisions jointly taken to preparing enlargements; a union of equals where the euro and schengen, the most visible expressions of european integration, continue to unite our continent. since the publication of the white paper, a lot has happened. the commission has organised hundreds of citizens’ dialogues – six of them in ireland, which is important. i am happy to see that the taoiseach himself has launched citizens’ dialogues on the future of europe across ireland, from galway to dublin. this is how it should be. to succeed in europe, we have to put an end to this eternal artificial opposition between the union and its member states. our union can only be built with our member states and never against them. this is why the invitation of the national leaders to this house, president tajani, is so important. i am delighted to see the commitment from the european council. it has agreed the leaders’ agenda: 17 summits in the next 18 months on the road to sibiu (hermannstadt) to chart our common future. this is even more than we had at the height of the eurozone crisis, but with one important difference: this time we are not repairing the burning plane while flying, as we had to do during the crisis. instead, we are now fixing the roof of our european house while the sun is shining. we know what we need to do together: completing our economic and monetary union; securing our borders; delivering on our social agenda; making our tax system fairer; reforming our asylum system; getting back to schengen; and completing the digital market and the energy union. in all these talks on europe’s future, i have been privileged to have a close working relationship with the taoiseach, and there is no better example than to say that we worked during the first phase of negotiations with the united kingdom. when it comes to the issue of ireland in these negotiations, europe is united. it is all for one and one for all. the commission and the irish government worked tirelessly, side by side, to help us reach the sufficient progress needed to move onto the next phase of the talks. this partnership will continue and will grow stronger as we work on the future of our union at 27. i read with pleasure leo’s speech at the citizens’ dialogue last november, when he set out his vision for ‘a europe that continues to do well what it does well, that focuses on big things and that, where appropriate, devolves some powers back to member states’ municipalities and regions’. for me, this is more than just a beautiful poem. these are the essential questions we all need to answer when going into the negotiations for the next european budget. this debate on the budget will be an open and honest discussion and one that goes right to the heart of the debate on the future of the european union. if we want the european union to have nothing more than a single market, a single small budget will be sufficient. but if we want a european border and coast guard to protect our external borders or european civil protection teams to help in the case of floods or fires, then the answer is simple. member states must put their money where their mouths are. (applause) herr präsident! genau weil diese zukunftsfragen jetzt in angriff genommen werden müssen, haben wir vorgeschlagen, unter der leitung von vizepräsident timmermans eine taskforce zu subsidiarität und proportionalität einzurichten. im nächsten wahlkampf wird das genau so sein wie im letzten wahlkampf. nur wenige haben den mut, in bürgerversammlungen, auf öffentlichen plätzen, im bierzelt oder sonst wo aufzustehen, wenn es heißt, die europäische union und die europäische politik in gänze zu verteidigen. man wird immer wieder den bürgern sagen: europa macht zu viel, und europa muss weniger tun. es gibt bereiche, wo europa mehr tun muss – ich habe sie oft hier erwähnt. es gibt aber auch bereiche, wo wir uns zurücknehmen sollen, wo weniger mehr wäre und wo weniger tatendrang mehr fortschritt brächte als blindes losstürmen hin zu zielen, die für uns eigentlich – von unserem instrumentarium her – unerreichbar sind. deshalb wäre es mein wunsch, dass das europäische parlament sich an dieser taskforce beteiligt. mir wird berichtet – but this is a house full of rumours, dass das europäische parlament an dieser taskforce nicht teilnehmen werde und wolle – das ist ein grober fehler! denn wir brauchen das europäische parlament, wenn wir darüber reden, welche kompetenzen der europäischen union in die mitgliedstaaten zurückverlagert werden können. dies wird eine debatte sein, wo man dann natürlich auch darüber reden muss, was wir besser machen können, indem wir mehr tun. auch über neue kompetenzen muss geredet werden. aber die hauptaufgabe ist, ordnung zu bringen in das zuständigkeitsgerangel zwischen europäischer union und den mitgliedstaaten. ich bitte deshalb herzlich – vor allem die großen fraktionsführer dieser welt –, diesen beschluss – falls es ihn dann gibt – zu überprüfen, weil es nicht im interesse des europäischen parlaments ist, dass die kommission und die vertreter der mitgliedstaaten sich alleine, ohne das mittun des europäischen parlaments, mit diesen fragen beschäftigen. mr president, since 1999 the good friday agreement has preserved peace and enabled progress where once there was bloodshed and discord. we all know that peace can be fragile, and i see no more important use of our new budget than guaranteeing and financing the peace process in ireland. this is an unconditional european commitment. this is what the commission will deliver with its proposal on the next multiannual financial framework in may. our new budget must be as ambitious as the goals we set ourselves and as flexible as possible in order to adapt to new and unforeseen challenges. our future cannot wait. together with leo, with the irish, and with others, we will swim in that direction. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, it was a good decision to ask leo varadkar, the irish prime minister, to start our debate in the european parliament on the future of europe. it was a great speech and a great contribution to our debate. we can first of all conclude from this speech that it is good to follow the irish example, because when i look at the past years, irish politicians – enda kenny, leo varadkar – didn’t point the finger at others when it was taking on responsibility for cleaning up the budget and making the necessary reforms. they simply did their job. the irish government also showed in the past few days how big and how strong you can be if you are part of the european union in the brexit negotiations. this is another example where the irish point is a good point. and finally, i must say that the tradition of referendums in ireland helps a lot in explaining to people what europe is all about. it is not blaming and shaming brussels, but explaining what is going on in brussels and explaining what is going on in strasbourg. that is great. there are a few aspects that i see when i look to ireland and the future of europe, but now europe stands at a crossroads between hate and hope. demagogues play with people’s fears, and for their selfish goals they are spreading hate. that is our challenge. we have to bring hope to the people. we know that the europeans do not want to live in anger. they are proud of their european culture, of their achievements, and they want to protect the european way of life. they want to combine prosperity with fairness; they want to combine freedom with security, and cultural identity with tolerance. that is what europe is all about. and then we have to keep this in mind, i think we have to make concrete what leo said in his speech. we have to talk about job security, social fairness, quality of life and whether we can protect this in a globalised world. this promise has to be founded. we have to give good arguments for this. it is either a europe which is fair, or not a europe at all. furthermore, we see in times of putin and is that people are looking for protection, for security. that is why your statement on the future of european defence is a great statement. a few months ago, i was in estonia and i visited the nato air base there. a belgian pilot told me what he was doing with air policing towards the russian border. i asked him whether it would be a problem for him if there was no longer a belgian flag on his uniform. what would he say if there were only a european flag in the future? and this young pilot said to me, for him it made no difference. for him it was always clear that he defended our european values when in his aircraft. dear colleagues, it is either a europe that is strong in defence or it is not a europe at all. finally, about culture, i think we have to be aware that the whole world is listening to european music, is reading our literature. europe is the leading cultural continent in the world, and europe provides cultural diversity instead of the commercial mishmash from hollywood. the question now is: how can we protect this? how can we bring this into a globalised and a digital world? the idea of emmanuel macron to create a european netflix, to bring all our cultural heritage in one digital form together, with free access for everybody, would probably be a good idea in this regard. it is either a europe sticking to its cultural richness, or not a europe at all. there are lots of things to do, but having our fundamental ideas for the european union in mind, our founding fathers – de gasperi, kohl and others – were always aware that european integration was ambitious. it was always concrete in terms of projects, and that is why we have to look for these concrete projects in the days, weeks and years to come. let’s get things done. it is either an ambitious europe, or it is not a europe at all.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to thank the taoiseach for his reply. since brexit at the latest, we have been able to anticipate the social and civil rights implications of such a withdrawal for the people concerned - not just in the uk itself, but on the island of ireland and across the eu. we cannot accept a return to hard borders in europe, and we will always refuse to do so. my group will also do everything possible to defend the good friday agreement in all its components. i believe that the process of european integration and the building of europe is inevitable. but the question remains, because we have to think beyond brexit and the brexit negotiations, whether today's europe, today's european union with its treaties, with its structures, with its institutions, is capable of actually implementing the hopes of people for a social, solidarity-based society, for a fight against climate change. we in my group say that we have considerable doubts whether this will work. i do not want to list the problems facing the eu today. we've done that enough times here. i would just like to say that it is important that we address the inequalities between member states and the inequalities between groups of the population, that we finally make a serious effort to combat poverty, and that is where we need forms of governance in the european union. i have the impression that the european union is unable to govern itself on some crucial issues. this is the migration issue, this is the fight against tax havens, this is the fight against social inequality. and the eu is in a crisis of legitimacy. you said earlier that we must put the european citizen back in the forefront. i know! the citizens must be given the appropriate instruments, the appropriate rights. they must become the focus of our debate on the future of the european union. they must help shape the european union, because it cannot be changed from above. we have to get to the root of this. we also have to think about contract changes. and i ask you to support me in that.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to request that we do not conclude the first reading but send a draft legislative act back to the committee on international trade in accordance with rule 59(4) for interinstitutional negotiations based on the amendments adopted. can we please vote on that?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we voted over 40% in favour of this report. and as i understand it, that has to go, because we voted over 35% target earlier. so it doesn't add up. so we should not have voted on this amendment, on this recital.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have known for a long time that not only the russian propaganda media, but also parts of russian politics are designed to promote divisions and polarization in the european union, undermine democratic debates and strengthen euroscepticism. fake news has become a particularly popular tool in social media. but it is also interesting that the kremlin systematically supports anti-european parties, far-right populists such as five star, but also left-wing nationalist parties, and incorporates anti-european union propaganda into these activities. we have seen this in the brexit debate, we have evidence of this, mrs spinelli, from france. and in the german elections, there was an extremely interesting collaboration between bots from nizhny novgorod and the american alt-right movement to strengthen the alternative for germany. how do we deal with something like this? the struggle we are waging is not to defeat the kremlin in any way, but to strengthen our societies in their democratic constitution. that's why i think it's right that we have dg stratcom. but it is too small and the networking with the national level is not good enough. beyond this detection of propaganda and lies in propaganda, i believe that the european union urgently needs to strengthen journalism. we need to have a debate about this, because journalism has been weakened in recent years. we watched. and one last thing i would like to say to strengthen the commissioner: when social media start to make news like facebook or twitter or google do, then they have to obey similar rules as media companies and the press. that is a task we must face.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance the commission is not today we're going to talk first about fake news, the buzzword that the establishment uses to try to discredit all unwanted facts and opinions. secondly, russia, which has been chosen by the same establishment as a scapegoat for all the evil in the world. so today's debate over alleged election meddling by russian fake news is like easter and christmas all in one day for the establishment. i shall not be able to prevent you from making tirades about right-wing populists, russians and the alleged need to regulate opinions. we have just heard it from mrs harms. this is pure hypocrisy, because this parliament will be campaigning in its own interests in the 2019 european elections. their own slogans with eu officials as campaigners who then produce their own truths, according to the motto: "quality news should be supported by the government". this is propaganda of the highest order! anyone who does this has no right to complain about alleged russian interference in the election. if mrs kalniete is insisting on the right to freedom of expression, then take a look at the german law on network enforcement - why wander into the distance when the evil is so close? you're in a glass house, so don't throw stones.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, as previous speakers have already pointed out, russian disinformation campaigns are intended to undermine objective or ethical journalism while casting all information as biased or as an instrument of political power. i agree we have to tackle these challenges; it is high time to build up the resilience of our union. in my opinion this should include four points. firstly, to thoroughly investigate russian interferences in election campaigns. secondly, to impose targeted sanctions against hacking and falsified publication of sensitive data. thirdly to turn the east stratcom task force into a permanent eu structure with adequate funding and increased personnel. and, fourthly, to develop an effective, well-targeted and tailor-made strategy on how to communicate and promote our european policies and values. in all our actions we ought to keep in mind that the european union’s main strength when facing hostile influence from russia is information rather than criminalisation. and, mr president, a final remark. as a european parliament we could perhaps improve things in our own house too. i observed in 2017 a few of our members using the technical infrastructure of this parliament to broadcast discussions and interviews on kremlin-backed news channels such as russia today. i’m not quite sure if you can really, on the one hand, criticise disinformation campaigns backed and facilitated by russian media outlets and, on the other hand, allow active support to them with our very own parliamentary infrastructure. this is inconsistent, this should stop. (applause)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i feel transported back to the 1980s: the cold war is back, the transatlantics are back. mr. king, if you're talking about the russian media supplying false figures and facts, then tell me when the russians have supplied false figures. when did they ever give false facts? i've been following the events and the wars in libya, afghanistan, serbia, iraq and syria, and in all of these things, i've seen that our transatlantic media lies, but not russian news like sputnik or rt. i have been able to see for myself, on two visits to syria, who is telling the truth. why are you not brave enough to go to russia, to seek dialogue instead of starting a propaganda war? the future of europe - a europe of the fatherlands - lies in the community with russia and not with the alien power of the united states.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the spread of propaganda by governments - and by governments pretty much everywhere in the world - is not particularly new, and the involvement of russia is not particularly surprising. however, it must be noted that probably more than 90% of the european population has never been exposed to this propaganda. because this kind of propaganda that we have is more of a fringe phenomenon -- especially when we turn to sputnik or russia today. we have heard today that it is a russian military doctrine to spread disinformation, and i would like to recall the war in iraq, in which, by the way, spain, italy and a number of other countries took part, along with the united states and the united kingdom. you may remember the fake news that was around at the beginning of this war. if you want to decide politically what is true or false, and it is no longer part of the political struggle to decide what is true or false, then leave the democratic consensus. that's not how it usually works in democratic societies.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. russia is an authoritarian regime in which genuinely free elections with equal opportunities do not take place. i see colleagues like meuthen and pretzell and coburn and couso permuy and all these people defending this russia in this system because it also corresponds to their own ideology, which does not correspond to free, liberal democracy. and that exposes them as the real enemies of freedom. secondly, we must make it clear that we cannot retaliate with the same method as russia and its friends in europe, but that we are a free society with a free media and cannot respond with state instruments. that is why the best way to do this is to give the western free media, and the media that may still exist in those countries, opportunities in those countries, including the new media. we ourselves must make clear to our own people how lies are made. and it must be clear that we have to find ways to explain when lies are lies. that's the key. it is not possible for truth and falsehood to be equated and then for mr pretzell to present this as a democratic discourse. this is the opposite of that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think an important point is that we are bringing to our public, in the context of this debate, the awareness that something is happening in this area - that russia is on this path in general. if we let mr. putin succeed in the form of moving the line between truth and lies, or accepting that everyone has their truth, then he would have won. i am confident that we have the strength from the power of our democracy to make it clear: we are not doing anything against russian policy, we are not doing any counter-propaganda, but in my view the best means against such fake news is simply the simple truth. if we bring it over, those who want to distort the truth will have no chance.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, young people in europe count on us, and it is true what some of the colleagues have mentioned: that the numbers have slightly decreased. but we cannot deny that youth unemployment is still a massive problem within the european union, and we cannot let one more day pass in which we do not put all our efforts into fighting against this, because it is one of the crucial questions about whether we have a future in a united europe or not. yes, the youth employment initiative has been presented as the answer, or at least partly the solution to this big problem of youth unemployment, and young people all over europe have put their hopes into this initiative. it is true that some of them have been satisfied; their expectations have been met. but we must also say that many young people have been disappointed, and that there is a big gap in implementation and the success of implementation in different member states. we have member states where the numbers have gone down and we have member states where the numbers have not gone down, and where i believe the wrong proposals have been made in order to fight against youth unemployment. one of the crucial questions is whether member states have actually provided high-quality sustainable offers to young people, because the youth employment initiative is not about giving something to do to young people who don’t know what to do with their time. it is about giving perspectives to young people; quality and sustainable offers so that they can enter the labour market. i believe that if we want these quality offers to be meaningful, they should, for example, also be remunerated. that is why it is important for the report to very clearly state that we need quality offers and why we should have a definition at european level as to what these quality offers mean. lastly, i think as the european parliament we can take a very concrete measure in order to show how sincere and how clear we are in our demands to fight youth unemployment, and that is to finally implement fair internships and to treat the interns here in this house fairly and to remunerate the internships that are being done in this house.
the commission has already done so. of course, it is important to put young people to work in particular. but is the employment initiative the right way forward? i'm afraid not the programme has not brought about a change of trend, particularly in southern europe. spain, for example, has allocated the largest amount of money, 943 million, to this initiative. spain still has a youth unemployment rate of 40%. overall, however, the labour market in spain is more of a positive example. spain's overall unemployment has fallen significantly. in summary, although spain is very successful overall and receives the most money for the youth initiative, the decline in unemployment among young people is particularly low. this very bad result for spain is also confirmed by the commission's own analysis. the bottom line is, the program doesn't work. the european court of auditors also confirms that the efficiency of the funds used is highly questionable. that is why we should not raise it any further.
i have to say, madam president, five years ago, the council - influenced by angela merkel - agreed on the youth employment initiative. we in the european parliament have been very vocal in calling for adequate funding for the youth guarantee, for jobs, for further training, for training and for traineeships. the program works! youth unemployment has fallen sharply in the eu-28 to an average of 16.2% from 24% marianne thyssen pointed this out. finally, even in greece, spain and italy, it is declining - although we all know that it is still too low. we have increased the budget by 2.4 billion euros to 8.8 billion euros by 2020. nevertheless, there are some points of concern in the report. employers should be obliged to offer high-quality traineeships. i am in favour of encouragement, but not of coercion, which is not an instrument of the social market economy. or round tables with all the actors to assess the implementation of the strategies on the ground - that is difficult to achieve. a hotline for violating the rights of young people is very populist, we have to look again. i am counting on the effectiveness of measures and have recommended to my epp group that we support the overall very good report by romana tomc. we must do everything possible to ensure that young people of good will are not left alone in their work.
the commission has already done so. europe can and must afford to have a more active labour market policy. the employment initiative was a good start, the youth guarantee needs to be further developed. the labour market figures point in the right direction: unemployment is falling. but the numbers don't tell the whole story. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union. this is why it is important that the youth guarantee focuses on quality education and work. we want to achieve this in three steps. first, eu-funded programmes such as the youth guarantee must meet quality standards - including fair working conditions, social protection and adequate remuneration. these points need to be defined more clearly. we see that where the social partners are involved, the quality is usually the same. secondly, we call for greater involvement of the social partners in regional projects. young people are too often exploited and abused as cheap resources. thirdly, we need a europe-wide ban on unpaid internships. we want young people to have a good memory of europe when they think about starting their careers.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, we have managed to make solid progress in the implementation of the circular economy action plan. thanks to parliament’s hard work, one of the key initiatives, the legislative package on waste, is now very close to adoption. i am grateful for the hard work of simona bonafè and all the shadow rapporteurs involved. the package the commission adopted yesterday keeps us on this very positive track. the main element of this package is the plastics strategy for europe. there is a tide of growing awareness and concern among people, businesses and governments about the enormity of plastic pollution. in last year’s special eurobarometer survey, 84% of european citizens said that they are worried about the impact of plastics on our environment. the commission also received a petition signed by 800 000 europeans calling on us to deliver an ambitious plan, and i know that, in this house too, there is a sense of urgency about this issue. plastic pollution is an enormous challenge, threatening our environment and health. every second, approximately 700 kilos of plastic waste ends up in our oceans. if we go on this way, there will be more plastic than fish in the ocean by 2050. micro-plastics are found not just in our oceans but also in our water, in the water we drink, in the food we eat, and in the air we breathe. also, the way we produce, use and dispose of plastics today is a threat to several economic sectors: fisheries and tourism, to name two. it is also a wasted economic opportunity. vice-president katainen will say more about that in a second. with this strategy, we aim to foster a new, sustainable and profitable plastics economy, with the design of products and other parts of the production chain taking into account re-use and recycling needs. plastic packaging accounts for about 60% of all plastic waste generated in europe every year. it is therefore paramount that we address packaging as a priority. our aim is that, by 2030, all plastic packaging placed on the eu market will be reusable or recyclable in a cost-effective manner. we have quickly begun work on future revision of rules, and new harmonised rules, on packaging. in the shorter term, we need to curb plastic waste and reduce the use of certain types of plastic. several measures for that are provided for in the strategy. we will propose an eu-level legislative initiative on single-use plastics before summer. single-use plastic items constitute 50% of litter found on eu beaches, and it is important that we significantly reduce the use of these products. micro-plastics are another serious problem. we have launched a process to ban micro-plastics that are intentionally added to products such as cosmetics, paints and detergents, and we can do that under the reach framework. also, we will continue our work to ban oxo-plastics because these oxo-plastics fragment to tiny pieces, exacerbating the micro-plastics accumulation even more. together with this strategy, we adopted a new directive on port reception facilities, which goes a long way, ensuring that waste is brought back to land instead of being discharged at sea. we will also develop additional measures to motivate those working on boats to bring the fishing gear to land and not dump it into the sea. since a significant part of plastic pollution comes from other parts of the world, we will need to work together with the rest of the world to make sure that we improve the situation. we, as the eu, can be a global leader in this. we have been a global leader on climate action and we can be a global leader here as well. we need the full support of this parliament if we are to be successful. vice-president katainen will now explain how this is also working well for our economy.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, today, or actually yesterday we adopted a plastic strategy, which is the elementary part of the circular economy thinking. today, all too often the way plastics are produced, used and discarded fails to capture the economic benefits of a more circular approach. according to the estimates only 5% of the value of plastic packaging materials remains in the economy, the rest goes to waste after a very short first use. the annual bill accounts for up to eur 105 billion. we simply cannot afford it. this is why we are proposing rethinking and improving the functioning of the entire complex value chain: plastic producers, designers, retailers and recyclers and consumers all need to act. it often seems to be forgotten that high levels of plastic recycling can only be achieved by improving the way plastics are produced and designed. the aim is that by 2030 all plastic packaging will be reusable and recyclable. this will be achieved by stimulating design for circularity, boosting recycled content and stimulating better separate waste collection. plastics packaging today accounts for about 60% of all plastics waste generated in europe every year. it is therefore paramount that we address this as a priority. in the eu, the uptake of recycled plastics in new products is low; only around 6%. our objective is to support the creation of more stable markets for recycled plastics and ensure the demand for recycled plastics is multiplied by four. in other words, our aim is, first, to create a truly well-functioning single market for recyclable plastics, second to improve waste collection and, third, promote recycled plastics. the intention is to stimulate investment in the sector. existing eu funds such as the structural funds, the european fund for strategic investments and horizon 2020 will continue to support businesses and member states to upgrade their waste management infrastructure. we aim at stimulating the increase of the european recycling capacity and the quality of the resulting recycled material. this will create trust in the market and attract further investment and innovation in europe. but plastic waste reduction depends not only on the recycling infrastructure, it can also be reduced by using more sustainable materials which could replace traditional plastic while offering the same functionalities. later this year the commission will develop a strategic research innovation agenda for plastics. the focus will be the development of smarter and more recyclable plastic materials and products, more efficient recycling processes, the removal of hazardous substances and contaminants from recycled plastics and finding solutions addressing the problem of micro-plastics. and if we manage to set things right the world will follow us. it is always the case that good european policies are copied elsewhere, and that should be our goal, to have a global impact. this is the most effective way to ensure that the european plastics industry, employing today as many as 1.5 million people, will become stronger, more competitive and at the same time the world leader in innovation, digitisation and decarbonisation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i very much welcome the presentation of the strategy by the commission today. we have a huge problem, we have a problem with the pollution of the world's oceans. it is a dramatic statement, but there is something to be said about what you said yesterday, mr timmermans, vice-president, that if we are not careful, there will be more plastic in the sea than fish by 2050. and it's already causing health problems. we also have the problem that we're consuming the raw materials of our children, that we have too little of a circular economy overall and too much of a throwaway society. that's why we have to do something. the commission has made some very interesting proposals. there is a legislative proposal that is already under way. and that's where i want to start. we have to stop just talking. we must act very concretely. and that requires legislative proposals. the european commission is the only body that can make legislative proposals. so, congratulations on the one, very small proposal you made. but i really want to ask that the next proposal be tabled in may, as announced, and that it not be left there. we need a regulatory framework that puts those who want to promote recycling and those who want to promote sustainable production methods in a better competitive position. because there are good ideas everywhere, and there are people everywhere who want to do something. but there are also shareholders everywhere who say, "if you do this, we'll lose money". so the rules have to be that you don't lose money when you invest in sustainable production, but you make money. we should work together on the way.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i welcome the commission's approach to the implementation of environmental requirements in its plastics strategy. the conceptual framework for this strategy will be unlikely to be viable, however, because the voluntary approach, the focus on recycling and reuse, and the single market and supply and demand approach to the plastics problem will not provide a solution. in concrete terms, the fact that germany will not be illegally dumping its 570 000 tonnes of plastic waste per year in poland, bulgaria or romania, which it has so far taken from china, is indeed a matter for the internal market. but the fact that china is not being replaced by vietnam, turkey or africa is a question of trade policy. we have a responsibility to make sure that plastic is not just dumped at our place or anywhere else. the thing about these fabrics is, out of sight may be out of mind, but don't stay out of the world. there are reasons and arguments for a serious policy of waste prevention, as well as technologies for its recovery. but the industry is singing its song of interest: too high a standard. because the cashier's only ringing when the production is booming. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that is contrary to the interests of the environment.
i have to say, madam president, i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. it's a miracle, you know. mother teresa was a big influence. that these are also two vice presidents who were the subject of the debate on "big or small" in the last election, we do not want to talk about that. i am glad that you are both here. i could see you were taking up the subject. at that time, mr juncker had been using the wrong scale. today we're glad he sees it too. only 5% of the plastic we have in europe is recycled. everything else ends up where my colleagues just mentioned. and i think we can all agree that we have to do something about that. mr commissioner, or commissioners, one thing is certain: i am probably one of the oldest people in this room and have been for a long time in this house. if we had once properly implemented our european waste laws - including in my own country, i do not want to deny this - we would have far fewer problems. then we wouldn't have to perform these horror scenarios that we're performing right now. it is important to have moderate, rather strict rules. and we need to engage and commit industry. that means we need to -- as we've been doing for many years -- along the value chain, to make sure that the designers of the products have a serious say and that the designers finally sit down with the recyclers. one of them tells the other that it's a social demotion for him. no, it's a rational solution, and that's where we have to go! i am counting on the commission in this case, but also on european industry, which will support this idea and will bring along sensible proposals.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. at the our ocean conference in malta, there was a giant plastic albatross right outside the conference building. mr. timmermans, you saw it. it was just from the amount of plastic that was pouring into the ocean every second. it was terrifying. prince charles, one of the speakers, said, "plastic is now on our menu". then there was an indian activist who called for us to stop using straws -- all good ideas. it is also a good idea that we have the revision of the harbour catchment directive. but there's a lot more that needs to be discussed. i was recently in a competition for young people on the circular economy. there was a young woman who was making furniture out of plastic waste from the sea. i know a journalist in germany -- a family man -- who has given up journalism and is now developing a consumer label for plastic-free consumer goods. there are a lot of them: cosmetics, clothing. we just have to bring them forward. we can see in the european parliament, for example, that we are no longer using plastic bottles. one more thing, there's a big plastic exhibit from the g7. i have been collecting signatures with several colleagues from parliament. if all goes well, we will have this exhibition in front of our parliament in brussels in april. already now, if it works, i urge you to meet us all there.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. mr svoboda has just mentioned it: far more people than before are living together, are enjoying the benefits of the european union, of citizenship of the union. of course, there is a downside: not all marriages that are made end up as successful. when i was a european parliament mediator, i witnessed the suffering of children who were taken from them, and i have to say that these are not pleasant stories to tell. i was therefore very pleasantly surprised to find that the european commission had taken up and incorporated into the draft a large number of the proposals i had drawn up at the time to improve the law in this area. that's a good thing. in particular, there must be better cooperation between the courts and the authorities, and cooperation must be speeded up, because the longer such proceedings take, the worse it is, especially for the children. and we also need the legal certainty that goes with it. another area of particular importance is the children's hearing. we must ensure that the rights they have under the un resolution are actually realized. we need to make sure that children can be heard in a child-friendly way, in their own language, but also in a way that they can be questioned in a protected setting and not in a room that can be very impossible for children, if it's a courtroom, for example. we must make sure that the conditions are right and that the children are happy with them. another point - and i am very grateful to mr zwiefka for that, too, because we have worked very well together - is the question of mediation. yes, we have mediation arrangements in the european union, but they are not enough. it is not enough to see that the courts do not take advantage of these possibilities. we must ensure that the less well-off parents do not have to bear the costs alone, because the questions that need to be asked - this mediation - can lead to - as you rightly said, mr zwiefka - cost savings, because the procedures can be faster, perhaps they will not even be necessary, and are also better for the parents and the children concerned. so, this is a very important question. i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the question of the legal status of registered partnerships. i cannot understand why children of registered partnerships, in which there are problems, do not have the same rights as children of marriages. we will have to work on that in the future, because it is actually unbearable.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. when two argue, the third weeps - a slightly altered wisdom of life that well describes what children experience when their parents divorce. this makes it all the more important that in a divorce proceedings the best interests of the child always come first. germany has a special duty here. our federal government urgently needs to revise its divorce and family law. we need a consistent exchange model, like almost all other european countries. the many petitions to the european parliament concerning the work of the german youth offices show me that we also need a comprehensive reform here. for over a year, i have been accompanying a french mother and her daughter in this difficult struggle. today the verdict was in their favor. germany, move! this is a benefit to many families in divorce proceedings. this benefits the divorced fathers, who are still disadvantaged, and the children, who have both parents. europe can provide valuable impetus to bring about change in german politics. let's do it for the sake of our children!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this treaty has been 10 years in the making. it took the tireless work of human-rights defenders such as james love to initiate the treaty, and it has taken the rapporteur, the entire parliament, including former members, and the commission to get member states finally to accept it. thanks to them, millions of europeans and hundreds of millions around the world who are blind or partially sighted will finally get access to accessible books. over those 10 years we had to overcome relentless resistance from those who wanted to stop or water down the treaty. that list includes, among others, the pharmaceutical industry, the film industry and other intellectual property holders because the very idea of an intellectual property treaty that is there to protect users and not rights holders is offensive to them. they called the access of blind people to books, and i quote, ‘an unbalanced privilege’. it is not a privilege: it is a human right enshrined in the convention on rights of people with disabilities, the right of equal access to information and culture. this equal right means that member states should not charge blind people’s organisation any compensation for making books accessible. so let us remind the member states that this is a humanitarian treaty, not a new income source for publishers. and let's make sure that member states implement this treaty properly and don’t charge people with disabilities extra for enjoying the same access to knowledge that we all already have.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the numbers are staggering, yes. over 16 000 victims of trafficking are discovered each year in the eu, three quarters of them women and girls, and the unknown figure is many times higher. the bottom line is that there are no reliable figures on human trafficking and there never will be. but that must not prevent us from doing everything we can to combat human trafficking, forced prostitution, child abuse and the illegal trade in organs in europe. every sacrifice is one sacrifice too many. people are forcing other people to work in degrading conditions all over the world. forced labour also exists in the heart of europe, often invisibly. it is not only in prostitution that people are threatened and exploited, but also in construction, hotels, restaurants, the care and cleaning industry and meat production. let's also talk about prostitution, and let's not make a big deal out of it: over 90% of the prostitutes in europe's clubs, on europe's streets, do what they do not do voluntarily. they are victims of criminal violence. women who came to europe hoping to send money home month after month to feed their children. we must respond to all this criminal violence accordingly: zero tolerance. we need the nordic model against forced prostitution. we need the full cooperation of the security forces in europe against human trafficking. we need a european search system for missing children. in short, we need active, coordinated action and zero tolerance against all forms of trafficking in human beings now, not tomorrow.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, women and girls are not victims. women and girls are made victims. women and girls are strong and resilient, but too often they are being exploited. too often they are being exploited by a system that is made for the few to gain profit and for the many to suffer from it. it is not a sign of weakness in these women that they are exploited. it is actually a sign of our weakness that we let this happen, that we let so many women and girls not live in freedom in the european union, and the responsibility is put from one to the other. if the member states are too weak to actually implement a directive that is already in place, then the commission needs to be strong because we need more police cooperation, including across borders. we need the perpetrators to see that their actions have consequences. we need to have better training for police and for justice personnel, because very often they do not even know how to act in cases of human trafficking. we need justice and support for those who have become victims because too often they are left alone. girls’ and women’s rights are the unfinished business of the 21st century. let’s put this directive in place and change something in this perfidious system.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the year of cultural heritage is a truly european initiative. this applies to its origins, implementation and purpose. the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is able to take action in the field of culture, and that the european union is able to take action in the field of culture. but this also means that 2018 cannot be reduced to a mere series of national initiatives, primarily cultural umbrella initiatives. the european community must be at the forefront. we can't let this year turn into a bonfire. the european project needs a new impetus. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. what we need is a deep european cultural and educational policy so that citizens can continue to identify with the eu in the future. the year of cultural heritage must be marked by a spirit of european togetherness and the common values that bind us all, and this spirit must reach all people, no matter where and how they live, no matter how old they are. it also needs to send stronger political signals. key words here are: improving access to culture, cultural education, preserving cultural heritage, digitising our film heritage, tackling the chronic underfunding of culture and education. together with the member states and the many civil society organisations, let us make this year's initiatives a success that resonates and brings europe closer together.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur mr danti for his report underlining the fundamental role of professions and the need for high-quality professional services as well as an effective regulatory environment. professional services do indeed play a crucial role in europe’s society and economy and as mr danti said, they employ 22% of our labour force. they also account for almost a quarter of the value added in the european union. that is precisely why we in the commission have taken such a big interest in them. but several studies have shown that the european professional services sector is seriously underperforming and its productivity is lagging behind. they conclude that a modernised legal framework could bring as many as 700 000 new jobs to the eu and increase eu gdp by up to 1%. in other words, the same order of magnitude as the eu budget. this is not a minor matter. this is a call for action that we cannot ignore. we must create the best possible regulatory framework for professional services, a framework that does not restrict professionals’ freedom in an unwarranted fashion, but one that allows them to contribute maximally to the welfare of our society. i trust that this house shares our objective to deliver this framework. nearly five years ago the council and parliament asked the member states to screen their professional regulation as part of a comprehensive mutual evaluation exercise, foreseen in the revised professional qualifications directive, because even where legislation aims to improve social welfare the resulting rules will not always best succeed. indeed, even by the time they are adopted rules can be outdated or inadequate. they can be disproportionate or the accumulation of layers of rules can lead to an overly restrictive legal framework. national legislators may not always take into account the external effects on competitiveness, social welfare and the single market. so constant modernisation of the legal framework governing professional services in the eu is crucial. we welcome the efforts by member states since the adoption of the revised qualifications directive to increase the transparency of the regulation and assess the substance of the rules in place. this has helped to create a database at eu level offering both an important source of information for professionals and making it easier for them to move. we continue to work hard to improve the functioning and user-friendliness of that database but sadly, member states’ substantive assessment of the professional rules in place was often of a poor quality or even absent. moreover, many failed to grasp this opportunity for reform to improve their regulatory framework, although experience with such reforms in the italian pharmacy and polish legal sector, for example, clearly show that removing unnecessary burdens creates benefits for all. the evaluation showed that there are big differences in the way in which member states regulate very similar professions. variance in itself is not a problem. differences in regulatory approaches can sometimes be the reflection of different circumstances, but there are also instances where the variance does not reflect differences in national specificities or preferences and where the design of the rules could be improved. to get a better perspective on how restrictive the regulatory framework for a specified profession in a specific country is, we developed the so-called ‘restrictiveness indicator’. this allows us to measure the accumulated burden of different regulatory requirements for some important professional services sectors. it is based on a solid analysis of regulation in place in all member states. it refines the parameters of the well known and widely used oecd pmr indicator. of course, this indicator is only intended to measure the restrictiveness of professional regulation and, as is pointed out in the report, this indicator is not intended to assess whether a restriction can be justified because it pursues a legitimate public interest in a proportionate manner. this is a separate exercise which the member states have to do in line with the treaty, but it is still helpful in indicating where member state regulation is especially restrictive and where they have an interest in examining that regulation more deeply. differences in the level of restrictiveness may not be problematic in and of themselves, but they do indicate that other countries might have found other less restrictive ways forward. this could serve as an inspiration. in order to assist the member states with the removal of specific unjustified restrictions and to identify possibilities for improving the regulatory environment, we have put forward reform recommendations for seven professional services sectors. they are based on the restrictiveness indicator combined with a qualitative assessment. they target those instances where regulation is found to be particularly restrictive. these reform recommendations are also important in the context of the european semester exercise, which has addressed the issue of regulation of professions in several instances. while the indicator may not tell the whole story as it is referred to in the report, this does not mean that the rest of this story should not be based on strong evidence. indeed, the professional qualifications directive reinforced the obligation for member states to ensure that the restrictions they impose are truly justified and demonstrably proportionate. based on the experience with the mutual evaluation exercise, it became clear that member states may have difficulties in conducting such a proportionality assessment. also in some cases the readiness to revisit existing regulations seemed limited. the uneven scrutiny of regulation of professions called for a coherent legal framework, so we put forward a proposal for an ex ante proportionality test for new regulations on which trilogues will start at the end of this month. it fully respects member states’ responsibility for the regulatory decisions they take. it does not impose an obligation of result, it simply proposes a common eu-wide framework to conduct a genuine proportionality assessment before a new or amended regulation is proposed. finally, these two policy initiatives will complement and strengthen the commission’s enforcement policy rather than replace it. in this context we take due note of parliament’s call for infringement proceedings to address discriminatory, unjustified and disproportionate regulation. we stand ready to act to address the issue. we count on the sustained support of honourable members to keep the reform of professional services high on the political agenda. it is only with their active commitment that we will be able to unleash the potential of this important sector for the benefit of our citizens.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank mr danti and all the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation on this very sensitive subject. i believe that with the report which we are debating and voting on today we have found a good basis for entering the so-called service package. commissioner vella, i'm glad you could make it this morning. i am sure that commissioner bieńkowska will be there herself when we discuss the package of services here. the essential principles which should guide european legislators, but also the commission, in regulating service professions, require great sensitivity, because of course there is a high willingness on the part of the parties concerned to give themselves rules which are often relatively far from what is being discussed in the european context. i would therefore ask the european commission from the outset to act with skill, flexibility and sensitivity with the relevant parties in the professions, so as not to break unnecessary porcelain, because in principle there is already the willingness and the will to bring european law into conformity also in the regulation of professions, for example in the self-administration of the professions or in the craft sector, which is not always easy in practice. the commission's proposal is to be incorporated into the treaty of amsterdam, and the council's proposal is to be incorporated into the treaty of amsterdam. i am grateful that the commission and parliament have also adopted the principle that regulation is per se a mistake. we must therefore simply rely on sensible regulation. i also believe that if member states and professional organisations work closely together, professional regulation does not have to be a barrier to the market, but we have to do it - unfortunately, we have to be very patient because things are slow to develop - and that the single market is more likely to succeed if we do it together. thirdly, mr vella, you have said that the commission will not fail to initiate infringement proceedings in individual cases because we cannot make rules for all professions simply because very few have opposed the rules of the european internal market. i know that the commission is uncomfortable with this, but it is your job to do so under the treaties.
i have to say, madam president, the reform of the freelance services sector is a positive development in the sense of the eu treaties. the directive is overall balanced and will strengthen the european union's economy. that is why i can and will agree with her. i would like to draw attention to another problem in this context: the intra-european migration due to eu enlargement to the east and the euro crisis is much larger than originally assumed. brexit in particular was a clear warning to the eu. after brexit, in the coming years, migration flows will increase in the already highly affected population centres of western europe - my city is also affected. already in recent years, due to migration, internal migration and the unresolved euro crisis, property prices and rents are skyrocketing. this trend is likely to continue, including through well-intentioned reports such as the one we have here. in other reports, such as the posting of workers directive, we find hidden protectionist measures already in place. although none of the so-called pro-europeans wants to admit that migration - that is, european internal migration - also brings problems, support for protectionist measures shows just that. we just have to be honest about this.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. china has made great progress in the course of its development over the past 30 years in terms of economic rights and social rights for its citizens. but unfortunately, we find that in the political rights and in the human rights in recent years, the opposite is happening: there is a step back, there is much more repression, there is much less freedom of expression. i would like to join my colleagues in saying that this is actually contrary to the chinese constitution. china should take seriously its own constitution, which guarantees freedom of expression and the protection of minorities. this is not the case today - not in dealing with the people of tibet, not in dealing with the uighurs and other minorities, and certainly not with people who hold a different view than the prevailing opinion in the country. we must fight against this, and this is the expression of this urgency. the eu sees human rights as an integral part of its foreign policy. and i also join my colleagues here in appealing to all the member states to act in unity on this fundamental issue, and not to allow economic pressure from china to cause soft knees where individual countries no longer share the consensus of values that we have. this is very important. there are not many countries in the world that defend these human rights. the eu must do so, and we call on china to take its own constitution seriously.
i have to say, madam president, two years ago, the monk chökyi from phurbu monastery was arrested and sentenced to four years in prison. his so-called crime: he celebrated the dalai lama's 80th birthday. during his detention, his health deteriorated considerably. family members are not even allowed to bring medication during limited visits. we demand the release of this monk! a second serious case concerns human rights activist tashi wangchuk. he has been fighting for years to preserve the tibetan language and against the suppression of tibetan culture. he was charged with separatism in march 2016. he's facing 15 years in prison. it is time for china to distance itself from intimidation, from arrests, from the suppression of freedom of expression and freedom of religion, not only in the framework of dialogue with the eu. china may be an economic power, but it is not a humanitarian one.
the next item on the agenda is the vote.
i also supported this report. i think that is precisely the eu's task and this report is precisely an example of how we can explain to people what the eu does for them. the removal of barriers to the exercise of certain professions between member states is, in my view, an extremely important agenda. we should not stop with a report which is not normative in nature, but we should be bold, especially the commission, and propose further legislative measures which will enable citizens with a certain education, who are in a certain profession, to be able to practise that profession in another eu country without being in conflict with the legislation and the legal system of that country. i think that the adequacy test directive for regulated professions, which we discussed in the imco committee, will bring some progress, but i would be even more bold and say that in the future more action will be needed in national legislation to ensure the free movement of people and work.
the explanations of vote on mr danti's report are as follows. i would like to thank in particular mr wałęsa and mr nagy, who followed the explanations of vote even though they had no explanations of vote of their own. i would also like to thank all the members who have been here so far and the services involved.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the honourable member refers to freedom of speech, and freedom of speech is not called into question by any member. but we're not talking about a regular congressman. we are talking about a vice-president of the european parliament. just as we expect you, mr president, as the epp candidate, to be a non-partisan official - and you do that very well - so we expect other vice-presidents to behave in a manner befitting this institution, the european parliament. if we have a vice-president who in an unacceptable way disparages a democratically elected colleague here by making comparisons with nazis, if we have a colleague who in an unacceptable way compares the institutions of the european union with the soviet union, then a red line has been crossed. then you have to draw the consequences. that is why we, as a group, will be campaigning for the removal of czarnecki. (applause from the centre) to take away the ammunition from the pis colleagues: my group is prepared to accept another pis candidate for vice-president in the same breath. it is not a matter of voting against poland, it is not a matter of voting against a group or a party. we will vote for any other colleague the ecr proposes. but in the case of czarnecki, we believe that consequences are necessary. (applause from the ppe and alde)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i don't want to start a debate either. i would like to answer the question put by my colleague: no, no one in the conference of presidents has said that there should be censorship of opinions, and there will not be. but there is a dignity to the european parliament, there is a dignity to this house. and please remember that european unity grew out of the rejection of war and the rejection of national socialism. it's a commitment and an inheritance. and to draw nazi comparisons in this way is to cross a red line. we - the socialist group - do not want this house to be represented by someone who is working on nazi comparisons. that doesn't belong in this house any more than nazis belong in this house. we insist on it. we are also in agreement with what mr weber said. we are, of course, able to elect a representative, a representative not exceeding this limit, from the group concerned. we are for plurality in this house. but no nazi comparisons, and no nazis at the head of this house! it's not lost here. (applause from the centre)
mr president, mr draghi, you are very welcome. i am pleased that we are gathered here today for this extremely important debate. the ecb has had to take some groundbreaking decisions in recent years, which have contributed significantly to the stability of the euro and the recovery of the real economy. it seems that thanks to the courageous intervention of your central bank and politics, we have now overcome many crises. europe and the eurozone are growing faster than ever. and yet the challenges are not going away. the technological developments in financial markets are currently taking place at a breathtaking pace. in recent weeks, the considerable fluctuations in the prices of cryptocurrencies and the consequent large losses for many investors have reminded us that virtual currencies have long ceased to be the play money of a few tech enthusiasts. many financial institutions including major european banks are now demanding that we act to rein in the relatively new market for virtual currencies with its drastic price fluctuations. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules. mr draghi, virtual currencies will also be one of the great challenges of the future for the ecb. what is your assessment of the need for regulation in this area and what means and instruments do you, as a central bank, intend to use to address this issue? (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr balz, we heard mr draghi earlier, who said that we need responsibility. the commission has said before that it is in favour of completing the banking union now. i ask you: what do you think about the fact that we will soon have joint liability - that is exactly what the commission wants - and then the german saver will be held responsible for the fraud on french, italian and greek banks?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i have chosen a different subject today, namely the technological challenge. for good reason, because i did not want to bring a german election campaign, which we hope has been completed, into this parliament. but you know my opinion: i have been one of those in this parliament over the years - i think - who has never, ever really wanted these issues, and that is true of mr balz to this day.
blue-card question. – thank you, brian, for accepting this question. we are coming up to a parliament vote on possible candidates for the executive board and i’m asking myself whether it is a good development that former finance ministers, who have basically participated for years in the eurogroup, are now sent right away to sit on the ecb’s board? does this correspond to the value of independence of central banks for which your party family has also fought, and for which there is a great tradition, also in germany? do you think it’s a positive development that we have this sort of candidates?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this report on the european central bank is the best report i have read in this house so far. he makes many important, correct, critical remarks about the monetary policy of the european central bank in its effects on savers, on pension insurance, on the stability of banking and similar things. it also makes a very crucial point right at the beginning: monetary state financing is prohibited. and then, unfortunately, he gets involved in a big contradiction, because he ends up demanding that greek government bonds should now also be bought by the european central bank. this is precisely the kind of monetary financing that we do not want, especially in view of the risk that the issuer limit will suddenly be exhausted and the ecb will buy up large quantities of greek government bonds. that is not acceptable, and that is a major weakness of the report. i'm not going to die. the ecb has another challenge, and i would like to ask you a question in this context: the government bond purchase programme is grossly distorted in favour of certain countries, especially those in southern europe. professor heinemann has again pointed out this today in the f.a.z., has also refuted your so-called rebuttals. can you comment on why the ecb is buying up such government bonds in such a large way?
the commission is not prepared to accept this. a decade of financial crisis, and europe was neither the starting point nor the centre of this crisis. it is also possible to say that the crisis in europe is not quite as acute as it was. but we have managed to become the chronically ill man, because outside the euro area the indicators have developed much better than in the euro area. inflation figures, money growth, target balances, financial and banking market indicators, gdp, investment figures, unemployment figures - these are all indicators that do not bode well for the future, at least not for the big change we have all been waiting for for years. and that is perhaps a very good signal for you, mr draghi, but a bad one for all the citizens of europe, coming from germany, where it has been announced that the crisis fund esm will now be european institutionalised and actually handed over to you as a european institution. this may be to the advantage of your loose monetary policy, but it sends a very, very bad signal to all german savers.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are talking about the year 2016: the ecb report. time has passed and many things have changed: the british proposal, the american presidential election and all its consequences. so there has been a change in the framework, not only in the context of the financial crisis ten years ago, but also in the global context. the european council in brussels in december last year, in the context of the european council in brussels, expressed the hope that the european council would be able to take a decision on the future of the european union. the question therefore arises: firstly, when you say that we need reforms in the member states, i can agree with you 100%, you have always said that. but before we pass deposit insurance and resolution funds as part of the banking package, we really need these reforms. the second point i believe is that if we are going to create a european monetary fund - i am in favour of this - then it must be clear how it is controlled and how it is financed and who has the ultimate responsibility for it. in this respect, many questions remain open in the reform package. and it will now be up to you, mr draghi, to initiate a moderate change in interest rate policy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. president draghi, you have presented an ad hoc theory to us today. an ad hoc theory is: i make a certain policy and i look for the reason for it. in reality, since your famous words 'whatever it takes', you have been pursuing a policy of interest-rate levelling to save the distressed debtor countries from bankruptcy. that is the aim of your policy. and the consequence of this policy is that there are repeated calls for reform. yes, when interest rates are close to zero or in many areas even negative, if you factor in the rate of inflation, there are no reforms. instead, you produce bubbles. in the period 2002 to 2005, real interest rates in critical states were also negative, and the consequence was real estate bubbles, other bubbles. and that's exactly what we produce. i'm telling you, they're trying to fight problems now, and they're creating bigger problems in the future.
member of the commission. – mr president, first i want to state very clearly and strongly that the commission, and i personally, are shocked by the news that emissions tests have been conducted on animals and humans, because no eu laws justify such behaviour. these were private tests commissioned by the german car industry, and the commission condemns them in the strongest possible way. the eu has always been highly committed to animal welfare. the eu legal framework in this regard provides for very strict requirements and barriers and, of course, there is no provision for animal testing in the legal framework for cars. the legal follow-up to this unacceptable case is in the hands of national authorities. we are happy to see that the german government will urgently investigate the matter. this testing of animals and humans adds a new and, i have to say, a much sadder dimension to what we saw during the ‘dieselgate’ scandal. it was just two-and-a-half years ago that we found out that car manufacturers had cheated in emissions tests. then we read in the press just last year that private emissions tests had been conducted on animals in the usa and on humans in germany. when i first heard it, i frankly couldn’t believe it. i thought it was just a very unfunny joke. but i have to say, again very personally, that this is the second time the car sector has shown that it is completely untrustworthy. one has to question the ethical behaviour of the german car industry. is this really, yet again, just an incidence of misbehaviour by a few individuals in a company? i have to say, frankly, i doubt that. there is a systemic problem in this industry. the industry promised us – during our investigation into the emissions scandal – a cultural change: that it would be transparent and would investigate. yet, once again, we find out about this situation via the media. we should again, and say very strongly, that we must not accept breaking the law, and equally we must not accept the breach of ethical standards. i have repeatedly asked for full transparency in the wake of ‘dieselgate’. unfortunately i have had to hear, at very regular intervals, that yet another car manufacturer is being investigated for cheating, or that another car recall is being commissioned. at the moment the tools available to us to remedy this situation are still limited. the commission has launched infringement procedures against some eu member states. i have also repeatedly asked – and i am repeatedly asking in writing and via ministers in the council – for member states to cooperate fully and inform us fully about the state of play in the investigations and about the remedial action they are taking. i am afraid to say that their willingness to do so has been at best very limited. in the commission we work very hard, hand in hand, on air quality and our citizens’ health, so i want to say first that i fully support commissioner vella in his most recent efforts to accelerate compliance with long-overdue emissions limits. from my side, and with the strong support of the european parliament – for which i thank you very much – we have put a legal framework in place that would largely prevent future emissions cheating. this should assure consumers and should make the car industry more competitive, as i have repeated many times. however, more ethical behaviour by the car industry now has to follow. this is a must because, as the unacceptable behaviour reported last week shows, changing the legislation alone will not be sufficient: the car industry needs to assume full responsibility for its behaviour. european industry must mean quality – on different levels, including quality in terms of ethics. in this context i will ask member states to verify the information about testing on humans and animals, to establish whether this situation was occurring in europe. we know about the testing on humans, but we don’t know whether animal testing has been occurring. and we owe it to our citizens to investigate. i will, of course, come back to you with the response i receive from the member states.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too think that the experiments are totally unacceptable, and i would like to add one more argument: the limit values for particulate matter, nitrogen oxides and other pollutants are calculated in such a way that even people who are vulnerable to health problems - elderly people, children with asthma and so on - will not be harmed if they are exposed to the stresses over a long period of time. how you can test it on monkeys or healthy subjects in a few hours and learn that the values may not be right, i can't figure out. in particular, there are rules about when you can do animal testing. i do not think it is at all acceptable that animal experiments have been carried out here, and even the healthy subjects - i do not understand what the point should be. i therefore agree with the assessment that this was totally unacceptable and that we must be very clear about this. it is a question of long-term exposure, and that is why we must not take short-term measures which may even be counterproductive, even when it comes to the question of how to control pollutants. if you block a road and people take a detour, which may be much longer, that's not the point. we need to get to the root of the problem with cars, but also with buses, for example. i have asked the commission to do something about this before. the answer was not very convincing. and for example, in the case of marine engines, it is incredible that ships still burn the last of the dirt, in most cases without significant cleaning of the exhaust gases. we must do something to protect human health and the environment.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i agree with everything that has been said about criticism. i must remind you that i myself was responsible for german industry for six years, and you should be ashamed of yourself. but mr liese was right when he said that we must also think about the causes. i am reminded of a company that always stands out: volkswagen. we need to talk about that today. i remember very well that the volkswagen board hired a general motors employee to get to the secrets of general motors a few years ago. he was punished severely for it. gerhard schröder has appointed a member of ig metall as chairman of the supervisory board of volkswagen and made him a member of the board. this ig-metal member then systematically bribed works councils, paid them prostitutes and finally even hired the mistress of one of these works councils. a few weeks ago it came out that the works council of volkswagen was paid an extremely high salary, which raised suspicions that this could be a case of fraud. he's been cut back again. then came dieselgate, and it was pointed out, and finally now this monkey show. you should be ashamed of yourself. what is one of the reasons for volkswagen? every time politics and business come together, you get this. it starts with corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then corruption, then, then, it's time for volkswagen to clean up. the first thing that has to happen is that the company has to be privatized once and for all. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – if, indeed, we come to the conclusion that this was possible because there is a law missing, then we should come up with another law. but i tend to believe that we don’t need new laws, i think they violated regulations and laws.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal. even chancellor merkel, who showed no interest in animal welfare during her entire term in office, spoke up: the tests on monkeys and even on humans are in no way ethically justifiable. the reactions of the public to the tests ranged from unethical to repulsive. i can tell you that i do not in any way endorse these emissions tests, and i can only describe the frauds of the companies involved as scandalous. but what a farce is going on in this house! every day, tens of thousands of animals are killed in animal experiments in the eu; in germany alone, between 2,500 and 3,000 monkeys are tortured and killed in animal experiments every year. new medicines have been and are being tested in clinical trials involving patients with high health risks. animal testing is still done in the tobacco industry. where's the political outrage? i didn't hear her. explain to me why an abstract, meaningless animal experiment - and there are plenty of them - is ethically justifiable, but diesel fuel tests are not. we should take this opportunity to make it clear that all animal testing is unethical and unacceptable. otherwise we will be making a fool of ourselves, because the european parliament is obviously too ... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i told you what i thought about the tests. i also think it's irresponsible. but the german translation said, madam president, that people and monkeys were forced to inhale these gases. according to my information, this was with the people at rwth aachen with volunteer subjects. i think that should be clearly argued. i hope that was a translation error, or do you have any insight that people were coerced?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the fact is that german companies have used animals and people to clean their cars. but as justified as the debate about animal and human testing is over and over again, the larger experiment that is taking place is the one with very many people on our streets every day. i cannot take seriously the commissioner's indignation if the indignation at experiments on humans and monkeys does not also reflect the indignation at this great experiment which is taking place on the streets every day. the car industry, mrs bieńkowska, must be persuaded by you, together with the governments of the member states, to finally respect the limit values, otherwise the car industry - and you and your colleagues in the national governments - will be responsible for people getting sick and dying prematurely. the technology is there, it must be used. and if there's no proper retrofitting, then we'll have to talk about driving bans. that is the real consequence of the scandal. we should no longer trust the lobby of the car industry, and i agree with mrs van brempt. it should be given the status of a non-grata lobby, as the tobacco industry is today. we've had enough of these lies!
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but i want to turn my focus today to the future, and that is to ask the question: how can we avoid this in the future? commissioner, i believe we can avoid this by moving to the next generation, which will be electric. although the technologies are available today, we are not making significant progress. we are not making significant progress because we do not have the infrastructure we need today, whether it is charging stations, hydrogen stations or gas stations. the commissioner has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on energy, research and technology. that is why we are proposing a european clean mobility fund, which can be funded 85% by industry, 10% by eu funds and 5% by carbon fines. we are putting this proposal to you, commissioner bieńkowska. now it's up to you whether you make something of it or not.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, at the outset of the commission’s efforts to tackle geo—blocking, research showed that digital borders were widespread in the eu, that they cost businesses millions in sales and that people supported decisive action against them. a very important and popular topic indeed. this week we are voting on the second of three legislative actions on the issue, but all three have turned out to be no more than baby steps, merely carving out exceptions for certain groups of people in certain situations. after they are implemented, geo—blocking will remain widespread. that is a missed opportunity. i applaud all the steps forward that have been taken in this legislation, and i thank the rapporteur róża thun for her efforts to make it even more ambitious, but i deeply regret that these efforts were shot down by the governments in council and that, as a result, digital media, like video games, e—books or music, will be unaffected by this regulation, and that fear prevailed over the commitment to building a true digital single market, which cannot develop until we abolish digital borders and not just reduce them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european parliament's regulation on geoblocking ensures that there is a legal basis for the conclusion of commercial transactions between customers and suppliers without unjustified discrimination. that sounds so far, so good. but if there is unjustified discrimination, then there is also justified discrimination. i miss that here, and i guess it's the political discrimination. because we just allowed geoblocking against russia for political reasons at the last session of the parliament and even installed our own troops for this. what about the hypocrisy towards my country, germany, where the merkel regime has just created a network enforcement law that allows a private company like facebook to now have a whole army of censors on its feet and suddenly people can be turned off without a legal hearing, without the possibility of a free trial?
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. - mr president, i have to say that i am very pleased. i have only one very short question: are you aware that you can also buy goods, namely advertising, via facebook and that this is often turned off in germany, without a court procedure, without the legal possibility of doing anything about this?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, vice-president, colleagues, thanks first of all to the commission for this bold approach to vat. this is very much needed. we know about the problems of fraud. we welcome in particular that you took the concerns of small and medium-sized businesses seriously. my colleague molly scott cato has lobbied very hard for this and the parliament did this, so this is really the right direction you are taking. but i have to say that we have concerns concerning the increasing number of exemptions which are possible under the new regime. you have now an umbrella for the exemptions but member states can even add more products which are treated differently from one state to the other, and even if you have put limits to that, this is not the vision of a common market. in a common market, we should have common tax rates when it comes to indirect taxation. so therefore, we call on colleagues, the member states and the commission not to forget about the dream of a common market where common rules determine our common sales and business area.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance the commission is not prepared to accept this. we are talking here today about decisions taken by the commission on the subject of 'fair taxation'. we shouldn't do that. that's not the issue. the eu is not responsible for this issue. she can't be. the commission has also proposed that the member states should cooperate in the fight against vat fraud. but we do not need the new powers for eurofisc that the commission has proposed. the commission is setting up a european tax office. the principle of subsidiarity must be respected. taxing fairly also means not acquiring taxing skills. we do not need any lower limits on tax rates, either for vat or corporation tax. it is only fair that each country should decide its own tax laws. all by myself. without the commission's interference. we shall be watching carefully here in parliament and in the council to see which colleague and which finance minister is willing to give up national sovereignty in tax matters.
the commission has already done so. i would like to mention two aspects of the reform package for a fairer vat in the eu. point 1: the fight against fraud and cooperation between national and international authorities must provide effective and rapid means of exchanging information, both technically and legally. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. instead, member states should be able to choose from a wide range of vat rates: the keyword is flexibility. a tax rate of 0%, a tax rate between 0 and 5%, two tax rates between 5% and the normal tax rate of at least 15%, all this at a weighted average of at least 12%. do you know what that sounds like? that sounds like chaos. if this continues, it will mean considerable effort for accounting, tax consultancy and financial management. this increases the risk of error and fraud. that's exactly what we were trying to avoid.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. tomorrow will hopefully be a very good day for climate action in europe and worldwide. i believe we will adopt a reform that will finally make the ets fit for purpose. investing in climate-friendly technologies is rewarded. anyone who wants to continue to run old scum is punished. experts believe that the price will rise to well over 30 euros in a few years - about four or five years - and will be well over 20 euros on average in the next period. we shall then see investments which we have not seen before. but in order to make these investments actually happen in europe and not drive out the energy-intensive industry which is in international competition, it was important for us as the epp to provide free certificates for those who are up to date with the latest technology. so only those who are already up to date with the latest technology or invest accordingly will be provided free of charge, the others will have to pay. we are also helping industry through the innovation fund and we are helping central and eastern europe through the modernisation fund. i think that's a very good thing overall. we are protecting jobs, we are creating innovation, and we are helping the climate. i would also like to thank julie girling, the shadow rapporteurs, and above all ivo belet for the epp, and the commissioner and his team. i think this is a good piece of legislation, and i ask everyone to vote for it tomorrow.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are doing a lot at the eu level at the moment to protect the climate, to save energy, to be more efficient, so in sum, you could say, to help maintain and contribute to our creation. this is a pretty big challenge, because we want to be ambitious for one. we have already had cop21, 22 and 23. we want to protect the climate. we want to do this globally, and we want to apply the polluter pays principle and say: whoever damages the climate must be compensated and paid accordingly. that's exactly right. but we must also take into account that we do not want to jeopardise jobs, that we do want to remain competitive and that we want to have as balanced an instrument as possible. the ets is a market economy instrument that works well. i think that the compromise we found at the trial - julie girling, thank you very much - is really good. because if no one is 100% satisfied, i have the impression that it's always quite good. so i think we can live well with it, we can build well on it, we can be proud of it.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank all of you for your constructive work throughout the intensive co—decision process and for your interventions in this debate. as i have said before, we can be proud of the result of our joint efforts and i count on your support in tomorrow’s vote. the european union emissions trading system (ets) is a key instrument of our climate policy and we all managed to agree on a solid and robust framework for the next decade to ensure that we meet our ambitious emissions reduction target, while preserving the competitiveness of our industry and fostering low-carbon innovation and modernisation. internationally, many are looking at us and our european union ets as a model to develop similar forward-looking climate policies, and by putting in place the necessary legislation to renew and strengthen the european union ets, the european union confirms its determination to lead the way in the fight against climate change and honouring our commitments under the paris agreement. let me make a final comment because there have been some interventions relating to the need for a centralised fund for indirect cost compensation. i know that this was a particularly difficult chapter in the negotiations, with almost irreconcilable views on issues such as a fully harmonised system. indirect cost compensation will be continued in the form of state—aid schemes. we will not, however, see a mere continuation of the past. the continued use of a state—aid scheme is accompanied by substantially enhanced and timely transparency in reporting requirements. every member state providing state aid will, as soon as the legislation is in force, have to publish, within three months of the end of a calendar year, the actual amount of compensation paid out in total and the benefiting sector, and this is a substantial improvement. the enhanced reporting that has been agreed will already start this year, and as part of future reviews the ets directive clearly foresees that the commission should also consider whether measures in relation to indirect cost compensation should be further harmonised. i hope that all of you will support this ets new system because we have made a big effort to seek compromise. our rapporteur did excellent work, as did all the shadow rapporteurs, and in this spirit of compromise we have improved the system that, as some of you said, has not worked perfectly in the past, but really this time i think we are going in the right direction and i hope it delivers as much as we expect from the work we have done.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all let me congratulate the honourable member, professor jerzy buzek, and the respective shadow rapporteurs for the constructive, thorough and positive report on the communication on accelerating clean energy innovation. the suggestions proposed confirm and reinforce the commission’s position and will be instrumental in the ongoing implementation. we have presented the progress made last year in the communication on the state of the energy union, but the coming year will be crucial. to this end, the commission will continue to focus on the four flagships that we decided on in the communication: e—mobility, decarbonising buildings, renewables and – last but not least – storage. in doing so, as noted in your report, coherence of eu actions is absolutely necessary. we are focused on building and reinforcing synergies across funding instruments and stakeholders, and on aligning our policies to support innovation and not hamper it. your report is clear: public procurement can be a powerful tool to support the market uptake for clean energy innovation. within the commission we are looking at ways and mechanisms to incentivise eu public bodies to use demand as a tool to foster innovation. i am also pleased to see that we are aligned on the need to provide long—term financing certainty to better support and align incentives for innovators and investors. as you know, discussions on the design of fp9 are ongoing, and we take note of your suggestions with regard to the budget. your assessment that funding for clean energy research and innovation will require a tremendous increase are the same as our conclusions. we agree with you, other international organisations agree with you, and we have to fight for that. on your point on the eu’s global clean energy leadership: we are the leaders. europe is the leader and we should shout more about it. how many people are still surprised when we say that 40% of the patents in renewable technologies are european? our leadership is also clear in the mission innovation initiative, gathering together 22 countries and the eu. at the time, i was introduced by the us secretary of energy as someone coming from the only country in the world that was able to run for four days straight on renewable energy alone. that is european leadership. we are also working closely with other global initiatives, such as the breakthrough energy coalition created by bill gates, which is now exploring a public—private collaboration with the commission and four other mission innovation members. our views also coincide on the citizen’s central role in energy innovation that you referred to. there is a need for a transformation of mindset and the development of new skills. the role of the commission is to facilitate, but also to take account of more interdisciplinarity and user innovation in future calls. the legislative package you are currently negotiating with the council reflects the central role given to consumers in all aspects: innovative services, technology, products and integration methodologies. we cannot do it alone, so thank you very much and i hope to keep working together for the future. (applause)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. while energy poverty affects some 54 million eu citizens, some of our policies and measures prevent us from truly adhering to the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. but we all know - apart from our colleague mrs korwin-mikke - that strong action is urgently needed in the fields of sustainable energy and climate change. more than ever before, we are faced with all the negative consequences of our past decisions. but despite international commitments and despite the progress of climate change, some member states are still doing far too little to promote the energy transition. in this context, i would encourage the commission to address the following call to the governments of the member states: subsidies for fossil fuels must be abolished as soon as possible. we urgently need clean energy projects with tight timelines at the national and local levels. in the case of the conversion to renewable energy sources, workers in the fossil fuel sector must be provided with public guarantees to ensure a social transition to the energy transition.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, mr jerzy buzek, in particular, for his excellent cooperation in this report. that's a big story. it is very comprehensive because it is about the energy of the future and the innovation we need to do that. jerzy buzek has made it clear that energy will be necessary for everything in the future. and i would argue that the clean energy we want in the context of the clean energy for all europeans package is perhaps in many respects not yet mature, perhaps not yet as well known. that is why, commissioner moedas, research is so important to progress in this area. i think, for example, because i'm very involved in maritime things, about energy from the sea. we already know offshore wind turbines, for example. but there's research on wave energy, on tidal energy, and many people say that the fuel of the future for an airplane may have been produced from algae, and it may also be very environmentally friendly, even carbon neutral. there's a lot of things we can do there. we need technology neutrality, we need a lot of research. we also need to ensure that research is clear, that even smaller companies and smaller research institutions know exactly where to apply if they want to get ahead, and that we also use research resources as efficiently as possible. then we'll get on with it. to really drive innovation, we also need competition between the different energies. the subsidies for postponement are good, but they are not permanent. that's not what we need to look into the future.
the croatian prime minister. mr president of the european parliament, mr antonio, mr vice-presidents, mr group leaders, members of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, mr jean-claude, mr minister of the bulgarian presidency of the council, and friends. it's good to be back. it takes leaving the parliament to arrive at the podium. it's nice to see my friends and feel the positive atmosphere of strasbourg. it is my pleasure as prime minister of the republic of croatia to speak today about the future of europe. this year croatia will mark the fifth year of its membership of the european union. it is an occasion to remember our demanding accession process, as well as the fact that the european community internationally recognised croatia on 15 january 1992. after nine centuries, it was back on the political map as an independent state, at the crossroads of central europe and the mediterranean. the croatian people, that day, as well as the day of joining the european union, still remembers with a lot of emotion. the fall of the berlin wall marked the overthrow of communism and the triumph of democracy throughout central and eastern europe. although we also wanted to return to the fold of democratic europe, that period and the events of the early 1990s were extremely unfavourable and difficult for croatia. at the end of the 20th century, in the heart of europe, we were unfortunately forced to defend our freedom from military aggression. the siege and destruction of vukovar, the first european city to be destroyed after world war ii. the bombing of medieval dubrovnik. thousands of dead, wounded, and hundreds of thousands displaced left a lasting mark on that painful period. in the war that ended in 1995, croatia suffered losses that reached 150% of its pre-war gdp. you can only imagine how much that has slowed down our social and economic transformation. although we were one of the more advanced transition economies before the war, during the 1990s, because of all of the above, we lost the momentum and entered the european union in 2013, instead of, if there had been no war, probably in 2004. it took almost a quarter of a century for croatia to recover, change and develop, to rebuild, to rebuild and today to become one of europe's most attractive tourist destinations, visited by 18 million guests last year. tourism today accounts for almost 20% of our gdp and we are the number one tourist destination in europe per capita. as prominent elements of our cultural heritage, inventions, innovations, i would like to remind you that croatia has 23 unesco world heritage sites, our city, rijeka, which will be the european capital of culture in 2020, the croatian tie, which, as we see here, conquered the world long ago, and nikola tesla, a native of croatia, without whose inventions we would be sitting here in the dark today. croatia now produces one of the fastest electric cars in the world. a croatian company is enabling four billion people in the world to communicate digitally via sms. at the same time, i am aware that we face a number of demanding structural reforms that need to be implemented to provide our citizens with a better quality of life. my government is determined to implement them. we have positive macroeconomic indicators. we have economic growth of 3%, industrial production, investment, exports, as well as employment, wages and social benefits. we've cut the national debt significantly, we've had a budget surplus, and we have the lowest unemployment rate in history. in addition to the government's efforts, this reflects the positive effects of croatian membership of the european union. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the progress of the negotiations on the future of the union. ladies and gentlemen, i have devoted 25 years of political action and professional work to making modern croatia conform to european values. my compatriots who have, alas, known war do not appreciate today the peace that surpasses it. not long ago, democracy was a distant aspiration, while today we live by european values and freedoms. we have a very clear memory of what it means not to be able to enjoy the same opportunities for economic and social development, freedom of movement, student exchange or technological innovation, even though today we perfectly measure all the added value and benefits that belonging to the european union brings us. i measure it all the better as i myself have actively worked on croatia's accession negotiations and conducted the referendum campaign for our entry into the union. during the year, this was an opportunity for me to get in touch with my fellow citizens to explain the benefits of membership. thus, with my double experience as a croatian member of parliament and a member of the european parliament, but also as a prime minister and a member of the european council, i am perfectly aware of the various interests which seek to weaken and fragment the european project. without losing sight of political realities, i think it is essential to renew the whole of european ideas, by strengthening our common policies and making an intelligent use of our budgetary resources, but being that our fellow citizens are not indifferent to europe, but hostile to it. on the contrary, they must feel all the benefits, appropriate and take an active part in the continuation of its construction, because their interests are paramount. our citizens must perceive more clearly the benefits that belonging to the union brings to their daily lives. they must better understand the nature of our action, and the manner in which, and above all the aim, we are pursuing at european level. finally, they must realize the finality, which is to better serve the general interest by joining our forces. we must show by concrete acts that the european institutions are acting for each of our fellow citizens. this cannot be done without the support of the european parliament. also, i will try to deliver to you my vision for the future of our europe. i would like to address the challenges we have to face, the need to strengthen our democratic legitimacy, our external priorities as well as the crucial internal policies, which we have to support with appropriate budgetary means. ladies and gentlemen, the meeting in rome of last 25 march, at which we celebrated the 60th anniversary of the treaties of rome and adopted the declaration which points the way to our common future, was an important passage for the discussion we are facing today on the future of europe. almost a year ago, we european leaders were invited and encouraged by the holy father to persevere in trying to restore hope to our citizens and to continue to work for their welfare. on that occasion, the president tajani gave a brilliant speech, for which i would like to once again congratulate him. security, terrorism, cyber attacks, conflicts in neighbouring areas, demographic changes and increasing migration, climate change, social inequalities and the digital divide: these are the challenges we face every day and which impose the need to adapt to the main strategic decisions. today, these challenges have acquired a new dimension and a new challenge is before us: to be united in responding. unity, however, must not be understood merely as the sum of the numbers of the member countries, but must be reinforced by our national particularities and by our individual achievements. the same unity must be reflected in our common policies and budgets, as well as in the activities and the synergies between the european institutions and the member states. in the past years, electoral processes in various parts of europe have been in good part countersigned by the growth of populism and euroscepticism, as a direct consequence of the challenges i have mentioned. after having demonstrated that we are able to deal with it successfully, it is important to continue on the same path to get ready for the 2019 elections and to consolidate faith in the european project. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we must also work together to find answers to the challenges posed by the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union. as i have repeatedly said on many occasions since 2013, before the referendum, i see this as a bad decision. it was a lose-lose situation for the united kingdom and for the european union as a whole. as a european, i respect the decision but i regret it. the uk's exit is a result of populism and a campaign of disinformation, demonstrating the consequences that a lack of information about the eu has for its citizens. i hope that the procedure in accordance with article 50 will lead to an agreement on an orderly withdrawal, ensuring legal security and clarity for citizens and business communities on both sides. it is particularly important to settle the rights of citizens on the basis of equal treatment. this means that croatian citizens too must be treated equally when it comes to their access to the uk labour market. we must maintain unity in the process of negotiations, and our future relationship should be based on our mutual interests. in further building the european project, it is important to ensure democratic legitimacy. the european parliament is the strongest link between decisions taken at european level and our citizens, and we need to strengthen this link further. i therefore support the continuation of the concept of the spitzenkandidat, through which citizens can more easily recognise the face and ideas of the future president of the european commission, as was my friend jean-claude juncker, as the spitzenkandidat on the epp's 2014 winning list. in the context of the debate on the amendment of electoral legislation, we need to ask ourselves whether we are at the level of the member states, given the time constraint, sufficiently organisational, legal and even financially prepared to establish transnational lists. i welcome the proposal prepared by the european parliament on its new composition, according to which croatia will receive an additional representative. national parliaments also play an important role in strengthening the democratic legitimacy of the european union. therefore, after returning to zagreb, i introduced the practice of a plenary debate in the croatian parliament after each formal meeting of the european council. this gives me the opportunity to introduce meps and my fellow citizens to the most important european issues, thus contributing to the european trend of dialogue with citizens, which i strongly support. in our further work, i think we need to strengthen the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality and make decisions as close as possible to our fellow citizens and therefore i welcome the establishment of a special working group. a few words about enlargement policy. croatia is proof of the transformative power of the prospect of eu membership, but also proof that the union is a peace project that makes a strong contribution to reconciliation and confidence-building. it is this attractive force that we need to harness to make our environment better and more resilient, and thus ourselves stronger, safer and more prosperous. the european union is still a community that many want to join, including my six neighbouring countries in south-east europe, my closest neighbours, but also turkey, but not just them but part of our wider neighbourhood. i know the ambitions of our friends in ukraine, a country i've followed daily while i worked here with you. we need to deliver on the promises to candidates and potential candidates, just as these countries need to meet the conditions and criteria and implement the necessary reforms, always evaluating the individual achievements of each of these countries. i'm going to the hospital. i am pleased that the european commission is presenting today a new enlargement strategy for the western balkans. in this strategy, bosnia and herzegovina has paid particular attention to the widmen, which are also a heavy route behind the glass hat. it is a state with a specific state order, consisting of three constituent peoples croats, bosniaks and serbs , whose equal rights position together with the other peoples groups is the basis for the future. the commission has also examined the application of the principle of proportionality in relation to the aid granted to the beneficiary of the aid. this is also the wish of the majority of its citizens, and indeed on the basis of an equal-rights electoral law. in our european neighbourhood, in the eastern and southern parts of europe, we face major security policy challenges. therefore, it is in the strategic interest of all eu member states, its neighbours and the construction of a prosperous, peace-oriented, stable and above all democratic state order to help. this is the task we all must do to ensure the protection and security of european citizens. ladies and gentlemen, the many challenges and threats call for a stronger, more engaged and assertive role for the european union in global relations. commitment to an international order based on respect for democracy, international law, the rule of law and human rights is a key investment in strengthening the union's role as a global actor and promoter of multilateralism. to achieve our global ambitions, we need a stronger, more effective common foreign and security and defence policy. equally important is our development assistance, which as global leaders we contribute to the un sustainable development goals. we have the resources to do it, and i believe we have the political will to do it. terrorist attacks on european soil, as well as other threats, show that europe is vulnerable and that its security needs to be addressed both within and beyond its borders. this will be supported by further strengthening of our defence capabilities and cooperation in the security-defence field. i therefore welcome the establishment of permanent structured cooperation in which croatia will participate in five specific projects. the union's external action in the field of security and defence is also of particular importance. protecting the union's external borders is one of our most important tasks. the measures we take at european level to this end should ensure equal treatment for all member states and all citizens. the full implementation of systematic border checks between member states when only one of them is in the schengen area, and that is the example of croatia and slovenia or croatia and hungary, has shown that there can be a problem for freedom of movement within the european union, but with open and sincere cooperation and partnership between these three countries, we have successfully solved these problems. croatia is already contributing to border protection, and our next major european goal is to enter the schengen area. so we support our friends in bulgaria and romania in this. our ambition is to meet the schengen criteria as soon as possible and thus pave the way for a council decision, and in doing so i expect your support here in the european parliament. it's important for croatia, it's important for the security of the entire european union, and these issues must not be linked to any other unrelated processes or topics. a particular challenge in recent years has been that of migration, which has not only a security but also a humanitarian dimension. while we are seeing a decrease in the number of entries into the european union, we must remain vigilant and continue to invest in our own capacity to deal with this challenge and to help the source countries. the successful response to this challenge requires the completion of the reform of the european asylum system. solidarity, in my deepest opinion, should remain one of the foundations of our common action. in the spirit of 25 years ago, when one in six of my country's inhabitants was an exile or a refugee, croatia is carrying out its share of responsibility for the policy of relocation and resettlement. mr president, the european union accounted for one third of world gdp in 2004, and today it accounts for less than a quarter. it is therefore necessary to continue working on the conclusion of trade agreements with third countries, as this is a stake in further economic growth and prosperity for our people. it is important to strengthen relations with key strategic partners and further deepen transatlantic ties. one of our greatest achievements is the internal market. it is at the heart of the european project and is crucial to the competitiveness of our economy. after years of stagnation due to the global financial crisis and recession, economic growth has returned. in davos two weeks ago we noted that the world economy is growing, europe is growing, but i am glad that the croatian economy is growing too and it is important to maintain this trend. the measures arising from the single market strategy are our shared responsibility, and in the internal market it is necessary to put an end to the discriminatory practice of standards in the quality of food and other products, because we cannot have two categories of consumers within our union. the commission should also be able to provide information on the impact of the measures taken on the environment and the environment protection. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's new rules on the free movement of goods and services, in particular the rules on the free movement of goods and services, and the rules on the free movement of services. croatia is contributing to this by developing public electronic services, we have 685, and we are especially proud of those such as e-prescription in health, which other countries have also recognized, as well as the e-newborn service that has also made it possible to register the birth of a child online since last week. mr president, in 1960 one in seven of the world's population lived in the european union, whereas today only one in 15 of the world's population lives in the european union. according to eurostat, only one in 20 of the world's population will live in this area by 2060, and this is evidenced by the deteriorating demographic picture in europe, which poses numerous challenges for our countries, including in the field of labour and social policy. one of our achievements is our social model, which we need to further improve, fostering dialogue with the social partners and social cohesion. we are faced with the application of the principles of the european pillar of social rights as the basis for the establishment of a fair labour market and social security system, as well as the care of our pensioners. we must continue to build the european energy union and ensure that our citizens have access to sustainable, secure and affordable energy. it is therefore important for us to develop strategic energy projects aimed at diversification and security of supply. for croatia, i would like to highlight the lng terminal project in krk, which is a strategic project of my government and which has already received financial support from the european union, thus positioning croatia on the energy map of europe. on the other hand, we will fulfil all the obligations of the paris agreement and try to continue our tradition of a country that in 1895 had the first hydroelectric power plant in europe to develop the production of electricity from renewable sources, and the share of renewable energy in consumption in croatia is already at 29%, which means that we have met the european 2030 targets almost ten years earlier. as far as transport is concerned, i will just highlight a strategic project for us, the most visible project funded by the european union in this multiannual financial framework, and that is the pelješac bridge project, which physically connects southern croatia, the dubrovnik that you all know, with the rest of croatia and the european union. dear friends, all our goals, policies and ambitions, everything we do requires adequate funding. in planning the next multiannual financial framework, we should start from the kind of union we want. for me, it is a union that ensures the economic growth and development of its members, that is globally competitive, that increases employment, and especially the prospects of young people. a union that promotes the balanced development of the member states, that builds the economic, social and territorial cohesion of our regions, a union that provides security for its citizens, protects its external borders and is able to respond to all security threats, a union that invests in education, culture and creativity, research and development, that adapts to contemporary challenges and the digital economy, a union that is financially stable, sustainable and capable of protecting citizens from possible financial crises, guided by the principle of solidarity, and finally a union that is a key political actor in global governance, with defence capabilities, a promoter of free trade, a leader in development aid, environmental protection and the fight against climate change. in the next multiannual financial framework, the underlying principle of financing should be european added value. therefore, elements of the existing own resources system that are working well and that maintain the principles of simplicity and transparency should be maintained, and in the context of the introduction of new own resources we should avoid creating an additional tax burden for citizens. although croatia is not yet a member of the euro area, it wishes to contribute to the further development of economic and monetary union. in june 2017, we exited the excessive deficit procedure and continue to implement the national reform programme with the aim of accelerating real convergence towards the euro area and removing excessive macroeconomic imbalances. the accession of croatia to the euro area is a strategic objective of croatia. the government and the croatian national bank presented a strategy for the introduction of the euro, opening a process of public consultation. croatia already meets almost all the criteria for the introduction of the euro and our aim is to enter the exchange rate mechanism, the so-called exchange rate mechanism 2, as soon as possible. in january this year, the croatian parliament ratified the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union, and in december i had the honour of being the first croatian representative at the euro summit. in conclusion, i would like to point out that our dialogue on the future of the european union is as important as the outcome of this process. we saw the reflection documents produced by the commission, we listened to our citizens, and we talked to each other at the levels of parliaments and governments. many ideas are being discussed and different scenarios are being considered. our path to the future should be a way forward and not backward. croatia joined the european union to be an active and responsible member and to work with other partners to further build and develop the european project. croatia, which longed so much to be again a part of europe, today wants to be a part of its inner circle. this is why i place emphasis on schengen and the eurozone. this is the reason behind our decision to participate in permanent structured cooperation (pesco), and the reason why our next goals are, as i have said, schengen and the euro. i work wholeheartedly towards achieving these goals every day, together with colleagues in my government, convinced that this is in the best interests of croatian citizens. in further building our future, equality is important to all of us: equality of states, citizens and opportunities. for the credibility of the european project and our reputation in the world, it is vital that we act as a family brought together by mutual trust. it is very important that member states that have differences on bilateral issues approach them in good faith and constructively. compromise is the building block on which the european union was constructed. inclusiveness is also important for croatia. no matter how fast or how much further we advance in these integration processes, each process should be open to all members on equal terms. our achievements are our strongest tools in building our common future. they need to unite us because we can move forward only if we stand together. a strong europe primarily also means strong member states, but, at the same time, the pooling of sovereignty at eu level makes our countries stronger, for their benefit and for the benefit of our fellow citizens across our member states. we also want strong european institutions which, on the basis of their treaty powers, work for the benefit of every citizen of the union. in that respect, croatia looks forward to its presidency of the council, in two years' time in the first half of 2020, as an opportunity to further build and promote the european project. our priorities will be growth, development, connectivity, security and enlargement. i look forward to working with romania and finland in the trio and in intensive cooperation with parliament. croatia will take over the presidency after the formation of new institutions and our task will be to bring forward new ideas in the period which lies ahead of us at the beginning of the next decade. with its values and freedoms, quality and way of life, and the highly competitive social market economy, europe needs to reassert itself as a role model that will inspire people across the world to build a better future. dear friends, it is up to all of us to deliver.
president of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, it is a great pleasure to welcome my good friend prime minister andrej plenkovič to the debate today. i knew him when he was an influential member of this house and of his parliamentary group. andrej, we miss you in this house, but we welcome you in your new function, which is not as new as it seems because you have established a europe—wide reputation. thank you for being here today. croatia is both an example and an inspiration for what our union should aspire to be in the future. croatia is a young member – not a new member but a young member – of the european union, but a nation with a long and inspiring history; a nation which has shown courage in self—defence and shown conviction when it comes to europe. with growth now above 3% in 2017 and unemployment set to fall by six percentage points from 2016 to 2019, croatia is a symbol of what can be achieved by working together in our union. working together in our union is another way to address the budgetary problems we have to face. j’aime bien la rhétorique enthousiaste de presque tous les gouvernements – il y a des exceptions tout de même – lorsqu’il s’agit de l’organisation de l’avenir de l’europe. or, il faut mettre en concordance les discours et les réalités budgétaires. l’europe, telle qu’elle est, avec les aspirations qui sont les siennes, avec les ambitions qu’elle nourrit, avec les ambitions et les objectifs qu’elle proclame, ne peut pas vivre à l’intérieur du carcan actuel de l’organisation budgétaire. j’ai été longtemps premier ministre et ministre des finances, donc je ne plaiderai pas pour une augmentation du budget sans bornes et sans limites. tel n’est pas mon propos. mais je voudrais que nous nous mettions d’accord au cours des onze mois à venir, sur les objectifs de l’union. il faut d’abord se mettre d’accord sur le contenu et ensuite sur les chiffres. je n’aime pas ce débat qui consiste à fixer des limites budgétaires sans avoir évacué – si j’ose dire entre nous –, le débat sur les ambitions futures de l’europe. d’abord le contenu, puis les chiffres et non le contraire. par conséquent, concentrons-nous sur le contenu de nos politiques. (applaudissements) évidemment, il y a unanimité au conseil. les uns disant qu’ils ne veulent pas payer plus et les autres disant qu’ils ne veulent pas recevoir moins. c’est une équation qui ne fonctionnera pas. il faudra faire des économies réelles dans plusieurs domaines, mais des économies qui ont un sens. il faudra traduire en chiffres les politiques de cohésion et la politique agricole commune. mais je m’inscris en faux contre cette volonté stupide, passagère, irréfléchie qui consiste à organiser un attentat sur les politiques de cohésion et sur la politique agricole commune. ça ne fonctionnera pas et la commission ne suivra pas ce chemin. mais là où des économies intelligentes peuvent et doivent être faites, nous ferons des propositions dans ce sens. andrej plenković a cité plusieurs exemples de politiques de cohésion intelligentes. évidemment, la commission accompagnera favorablement, en mettant à disposition les fonds nécessaires, ce projet concernant le pont pelješac. something like that ... but we know where it is, and we will support this project, as we support everything which is being done in dalmatia. these are important croatian and european projects, and the review for the next budgetary period cannot have as an aim a reduction of the support we are providing for this important croatian and european project. (applause from one person) is there only one croatian in the room? we will do it, even without applause. (applause) you are welcome. oui, si j’annonçais le financement d’un pont sur la seine, tout le monde applaudirait, mais ce projet en croatie est aussi important que ceux réalisés en europe occidentale. il ne faut pas oublier le développement des nouveaux pays membres. ich wollte einen satz zu der erweiterungspolitik der europäischen union sagen. wir werden heute in der kommissionssitzung, die um ein uhr beginnt, darüber reden. deshalb bin ich ein bisschen in eile, weil ich das vorbereiten muss. wir werden heute die balkanstrategie festlegen. ich würde in dem zusammenhang gerne einige worte sagen. es ist falsch, wenn behauptet wird, ich oder die kommission hätten gesagt, bis 2025 müsse der beitritt von serbien und montenegro unter dach und fach sein. nein, dies ist ein indikatives datum, ein ermunterungsdatum, damit die betroffenen sich konsequent auf den weg machen. ich habe bei amtsantritt gesagt, es wird keine erweiterungen vor 2019 geben. das hat hier im hause für aufregung gesorgt, das hat in der gesamten region für aufregung gesorgt. und jetzt sorgt für aufregung, dass dieses indikative datum für serbien und montenegro – das sind die beiden fortgeschrittensten länder – in den raum gestellt wird. man muss sich entscheiden: entweder oder. entweder man will die erweiterung in den westbalkan hinein und mit dem westbalkan oder man will sie nicht. ich möchte, dass die westbalkanstaaten der europäischen union beitreten können, wenn die bedingungen erfüllt sind. sie sind es zurzeit nicht, und alle sind noch weit davon entfernt, die bedingungen zu erfüllen. aber wir müssen unseren partnern im westbalkan handreichend entgegentreten, wir müssen ihnen helfen, diesen schwierigen weg zu gehen. kroatien hat diesen schwierigen weg erfolgreich beschreiten können. aber ich füge auch hinzu, angesichts dieses problems, des grenzkonflikts zwischen kroatien und slowenien, das gelöst werden muss – und dies ist ein bilaterales problem, ist aber auch ein europäisches problem. die kommission hat ihre mithilfe angeboten. diese ausgestreckte hand wird nur fingermäßig in empfang genommen. dieses problem zwischen slowenien und kroatien muss dringend einer lösung zugeführt werden. (beifall) und die kommission wird – da bin ich mir mit andrej und anderen hier einig – sich anbieten, um dieses problem zu lösen. aber ich füge hinzu, auch angesichts dieses problems: es wird zu keinem weiteren beitritt der westbalkanländer kommen, ohne dass die grenzkonflikte vorher gelöst worden sind – vorher. (beifall) dieses spielchen, das darin besteht, zu sagen: „wir werden das problem irgendwann nach unserem beitritt lösen“, wird nicht ein zweites mal stattfinden – mit mir nicht. diese probleme müssen gelöst sein, bevor es zu einem beitritt kommt, oder es wird zu keinen weiteren beitritten kommen. und insofern tragen kroatien und slowenien hier verantwortung. das problem muss gelöst werden, bevor es zu anderen beitritten kommt. ich wollte dies klar und deutlich hier formulieren. genauso klar und deutlich – und da bin ich andrej dankbar, dass er dies gesagt hat – möchte ich mich zur frage der spitzenkandidaten äußern. es besteht bei mir der inzwischen fast gefestigte eindruck, als ob einige im europäischen rat diesen winzigen demokratiefortschritt, den einige von uns gemeinsam, miteinander verantwortet haben, zurückführen auf das, was der vertragszustand 1957 war. wir sind im jahr 2018, wir brauchen ein mehr an demokratie, und ich setze mich mit aller energie und kraft dafür ein, dass es auch bei der nächsten europäischen wahl einen spitzenkandidaten der großen politischen parteienfamilien geben wird. wer das zurückdreht … (beifall) ich sage nur: die gefahr ist groß. auch wenn wir hier im hause – die meisten von uns – der auffassung sind, dass wir diese spitzenkandidaturen brauchen, gibt es im europäischen rat – so wie ich das fühle, voraussehe, spüre – fast eine mehrheit dagegen. dies ist ein konflikt zwischen den politischen parteien. dies würde ein konflikt werden zwischen diesem haus und dem europäischen rat, und diesen konflikt müssen wir so austragen, dass das 2014 erreichte auch 2019 wieder stattfindet – unabhängig von der bilanz dieser kommission. und es besteht kein widerspruch zwischen der idee, für die ich meine sympathie ausgedrückt habe, der transnationalen listen und der spitzenkandidaturen. wer hier konfliktraum sieht, ist – ja – für transnationale listen, aber eigentlich gegen die neuerung der spitzenkandidaten, die wir 2014 eingeführt haben. und deshalb müssen wir in punkto spitzenkandidatur engstens zusammenstehen. wir müssen das tun, weil es hier um die demokratische substanz der europäischen union geht.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to welcome prime minister plenković. it is a great thing for us to welcome him back again to this chamber. and prime minister, i would like to thank you, first of all, for your commitment today to your and our vision of a democratic europe. your clear idea that parliament is the place where we decide, especially on the commission president, is absolutely crucial and clear, and i hope you can convince a lot of your friends and colleagues in the european council, in a few weeks’ time. croatia is our newest member state but croatia is already a key driver for european integration. croatia’s achievement proves to all in the region that, through hard work, persistence, political courage and determination, eu membership is not only within reach but also of great benefit to all of us. croatia is a success story and a model for a lot of balkan states, so congratulations on what you have achieved, prime minister. colleagues, the idea of today’s debate on the future of europe with andrej plenković (last time it was with leo varadkar) is to talk more generally about the future of this continent, our continent, and i want to talk today about identity. i want to talk about nations. for the ppe group, it is clear that the nation states are the fundament of europe. europe is not possible without national pride, the history of our countries and the cultural heritage of our nations, but i think there is more when we talk about identity. when we look at the people of scotland, south tyrol, sicily, and the basque region, they feel they are british, italian or spanish citizens but they are also rooted in their regions. there is a double identity on this continent, so why should there be only national pride? why should it not be possible to combine this with regional and european pride? here, in this house, and all over europe, many politicians from the extreme right are telling people that their nation is the only thing, and to hell with europe and brussels. politically, this is one of the key questions we have to answer in the debate about the future of europe. i give a clear and personal answer: bavaria is my home – hundred and fifty years ago we were an independent kingdom as bavarians. germany is my nation, with all the beauty and richness of the german culture, but also the unthinkable barbarism of the nazi time. and i am a european. with heart and mind i love and live the european way of life and i will not allow any extremist or nationalist to hold these identities in contradiction: they belong together. (applause) let us look at croatia when we talk about this. croatian history has proved over the last centuries that neither big trading powers, such as the venetian duchies, nor big empires, such as the ottoman empire or the austro-hungarian dynasty, nor deals between powerful states behind closed doors at the vienna congress, nor fascists nor communists have guaranteed croatia’s independence and interests. only a democratic europe, acting together, has been able to protect self-determination, security, peace and prosperity for the croatian people. croatia is the best example when thinking of the future of europe together as a national identity. there is another important point. let us imagine for a moment that the nationalists had won – europe without a european union, without brussels or strasbourg. does anybody think that medium-sized and small member states would then have any influence? prime minister plenković has a say today in the european council because a unanimous decision is necessary. without such structures and without the european union, i am sure that an intergovernmental europe would be organised and led only by germany, france and a few of the other nations. that is not the idea of europe. we are equal, we are all europe, and that is our future idea. so the nationalists are stupid and naive. they have not learned from history and they weaken the power of their own people. everybody who believes in strong nations must be in favour of a united and democratic europe. i spoke about identity and i want to add another aspect. when you fly from lisbon to tallinn, or when you fly from helsinki to sicily, you see a lot of diversity: food, music, languages and traditions. our continent is so rich and so colourful, and i like it, but we have one thing in common: in the middle of every village, town and city, with only a few exceptions, there is a christian church. christmas, easter and pentecost are holidays we all share. we have to stick to our christian heritage. our democracies, welfare states and social market economies came into being only because of our christian values of responsibility, solidarity and freedom. we have to protect our european way of life by preserving our christian values. it is clear that faith is a private thing, but for our societies, and for europe, there will only be a europe that sticks to its christian heritage, or no europe at all. (applause from the ppe group)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to welcome the prime minister to parliament and to thank him very much for joining this debate about the future of europe. prime minister, i think it is particularly nice to have this debate with the head of the newest of all the member states, as one would think that the newest member state would have the most to say about the future. but, unfortunately, it seems that many in your country – and also many in your party – are actually holding on to the past. while it is of course important to remember the past and to learn from it, it is also important to make peace with previous enemies. after all, this is what the european union is all about. we have learned from the past, and we have decided never again to allow war to happen. we want to finally overcome nationalism, and we want to prosper together with our old enemies. i hope that croatia will do the same, and that especially you – as the leader of the country – will do your utmost to overcome the shadows of the past. the future of europe, as i see it, lies in creating the future of the people who live in europe. this means enhancing their quality of life, improving social policies, and guaranteeing human rights. when i say human rights, i mean the rights of all humans. i am sad to see that, despite the economic improvements in croatia that have already been mentioned, social inequality seems to be increasing rather than decreasing. this is a trend that we see in many european countries, and it is a trend that we urgently need to address. refugee rights are human rights too, and i hope that you, prime minister, will not allow push—backs to happen in the future and that you will investigate the push—backs that have already happened from croatia. regarding women’s rights, it is 2018, and croatia – together with other member states – has unfortunately still not ratified the istanbul convention. how can it be that there is even a question about whether we should protect women from violence? how come this is still a debate? how come we are not moving on with this? finally, the future of all of us depends on how we treat our planet. croatia is an example of a beautiful, resourceful country that can really show other european countries the way ahead. you said that you want to be on the energy map. i think croatia has plenty of resources to be on the map of renewable energies and to be at the forefront. therefore, i would urge you to reconsider your plans for those lng terminals in the northern adriatic, and also to reconsider some other huge development plans – like golf courses – because those would hurt not only the environment, but also local businesses. be the example: show the way to do economy and ecology together. europe can learn a lot from croatia, but for that you need to be ambitious. the future of europe is built by europeans. it is what we make of it. i believe that civil society is a very important partner in this aim and needs to be supported. we should strive to end hate in europe, to overcome nationalism and to strive together for a better and a common future. your country, with its history and its geographical position, can be a prime example for all of that. the future can be bright, but only if we make it so.
mr president, i would like to thank prime minister plenković for joining us. prime minister, i would like to ask a couple of questions regarding the remarks you made on the budget. you said there should be an intelligent way of dealing with the budget. can you be a bit more precise? what would your intelligence tell us about own resources of the european budget? when you say no new taxes, where should we get new resources from? maybe you have an idea. also, where should we reduce expenditure? the president of the commission has said we have to cut somewhat our expenditure on agriculture and on regional policy. where is your priority for making cuts to free up resources for new necessary expenditure? finally, what is your position on what some people call the ‘weaponisation’ of the european budget, meaning the proposal that the budget should be used to cudgel some governments into policies that are objectionable to the rest of us?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. mr verhofstadt pointed out that this parliament cannot have its own revenue. but there is a good reason for this, because this parliament is not elected by a fair election. not all european citizens have the same say in matters of revenue. there are six maltese members of parliament in this parliament. if we were to elect the parliament by equal votes, there would have to be about a thousand german members of parliament compared to six maltese members of parliament. no taxation without representation, that's been the rule for 250 years. we have a gross distortion here - the parliament is not representative. and so it makes perfect sense that parliament should receive its revenue from the parliaments at member state level, which have been elected in a fair election. that's important to remember. there is no right, no democratic legitimacy, to tax the citizens of europe on the basis of the european parliament. this right is rightly reserved for the member states.
croatian prime minister here is a croatian answer for my friends from slovenia, since both tanja and ivo have reopened this issue of bilateral relations between croatia and slovenia, an example to other countries. croatia's position is very clear and you know it very well. whether we qualify something as a minor abuse or mistake, as if it were a skiing incident, or whether we say it is a violation of international law, is now up to you or us, in terms of the slovenian or croatian side, to judge what was in the arbitration process. what you also know, and we know, is that croatia adopted the decision of the croatian parliament and that was while i was in this forum, and not at that convocation of the croatian parliament and that it is unanimous and firm. that's why i said that at this moment, when we have an arbitration award that you want to enforce and we don't recognize it, we must find a political and legal way to reconcile these positions and take the opportunity to resolve the border issue. what i also want to say very clearly is that people who are neither slovenian nor croatian understand that this issue is being de-dramatized: it is not a question on which the fate of either slovenia or croatia depends. and so it was even strange to me that we heard the rhetoric about slovenian laws that would take care of those slovenians who were left on the unfortunate side of the border. i much prefer to talk about slovenia as a country that had the slogan sunny side of the alps. i don't see the point. the point is, we're close, we're friends, we go skiing, you come to the beach, and i want to keep it that way. i don't want one problem, an interstate problem, to be transferred to the level of concrete, ordinary people, and in this particular case, specifically fishermen. and that is why i want to stress that we are open to dialogue and to agreement and to resolving this issue, but this issue is not as dramatic as it is being portrayed. that's what we've managed to do in croatia, for the first time in the last 25 years that we haven't had any big drama in the croatian public about this issue. it hasn't happened to us yet, and you know how it's been over the years. well, we're here to solve the problem, but try to understand the realities, both political and legal, and factual, after all, that have happened. as regards these other issues, the question of the rule of law, which i'm trying to contextualize here a little bit, is of course crucial and important for croatia. this initiative was the culmination of the previous council, the european parliament and the previous commission and we have in a way continued it at this time. it is important that at national level and in dialogue, above all with the european commission, we find ways of addressing issues on which we have different views and therefore i believe that the dialogue mechanisms available to us, in accordance with the treaty, can lead to a solution. as regards bulgaria and romania in schengen, i said in my opening speech that i support it, that i think it would be useful and good. you've had this cooperation and verification mechanism since 2007, when you became a member. we who came later don't have it. we thought at the time that it was a good thing that we didn't have it because we had met the criteria for so long that we were convinced that we didn't need this kind of post-accession monitoring and that we could find other ways to stick to our commitments and look at it that way. and that's why i think your success with schengen would be our success, and we'll meet the criteria in terms of both the technical criteria and border control and guaranteeing the impenetrability of croatia's external border. the issues of populism and euroscepticism, yes, exactly, i am very clear, and i say this in croatia, advocate of the advocacy of the political mainstream because it brings stability, predictability; it continues on the basis of this european project that was built by our founding fathers and many politicians and parties and statesmen and parliamentarians who have been building it for the last almost seventy years. what we are witnessing, we are witnessing at the european level and at the level of all our debates, is that many in today's digital communication space are using all these tools to market their ideas. sometimes these ideas are not always backed up by accurate and reliable information. i think for the future of our democratic debate, of democratic processes in general, we have to make a very good effort to distinguish what is true and true and what is not. i see this as the key to the future democratic debate which will provide an answer to the question of populism at the level of the member states, which, as we know, is also reflected in the european elections.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to begin by thanking you very warmly for the speeches we have heard, which express a broad european perspective. i am also convinced that this european spirit will help to find ways of resolving the dispute between slovenia and croatia. the aim of europe is to make borders irrelevant. this may be a way for both nations to come together and resolve this. but let me also make a comment on what mr lucke said: the european parliament has full legitimacy; the federal constitutional court has confirmed this. and we have to see that in the american congress, each state has two seats. then the us senate would not be legitimate to collect taxes. we have a higher degree of balance between large and small countries in a bicameral system here in europe than in germany, for example. we do not have a complete parity of votes in the european parliament. but the larger countries in the council are ultimately stronger than the smaller ones. this is not the case in the federal council in germany. that is why we should not engage in such a detailed debate that the legitimacy of this european parliament, elected by the people, by the european people, is called into question.
i have to say, madam president, i have agreed with the report on the ecb's annual balance sheet, but i believe that the gap between good economic developments on the one hand and the continuation of the ecb's expansionary monetary policy on the other must not widen any further. yes, there is a risk of price bubbles in the stock market, especially in the real estate market. the continuing low interest rate policy has a negative impact on pension systems and private savings. it must be time to end the €30 billion a month bond-buying programme please from september this year. but i agree with mr draghi on one point: monetary policy measures alone cannot solve economic problems in many member states. we need ambitious structural reforms, sound budgetary management and compliance with the stability and growth pact, rather than undermining it. this is the only way to ensure that the euro area economy is able to develop in a positive way over the long term.
the commission has already done so. female genital mutilation, which means the partial or complete removal of the external female genitalia, the tearing of the clitoris, the cutting of the labia or even the sewing of the vulva. it's all terrible! but we need to name it to make it clear what girls and young women are suffering around the world. around the world? yes, some 200 million women are victims of these abhorrent practices. but not just in africa and the middle east, no, also here in europe. i would like to thank my party colleague, annette walter-kilian, who has provided me with information from the health working group. 180 000 girls suffer this terrible fate every year in europe, and even in germany at least 25 000 women are affected - a high figure in the dark. it is clear that female genital mutilation is an act of violence equivalent to murder not a religious act, not a tradition. it should be banned and prosecuted, awareness and prevention efforts on the ground should be strongly reinforced and the protection of those affected should be guaranteed in europe and the world. let's fight for it together.
madam president, women know best what to do with their bodies. neither the state nor the church nor husbands nor parents nor anybody else should tell them what to do with their bodies. this is the very basic of sexual self-determination, and female genital mutilation is one of the most massive attacks on this sexual self-determination. it is violence and it can never be justified by tradition or religion or anything else. we know what is best for our bodies. we know when to have sex, we know when not to have sex. we know when to have babies and we know when to have a relationship, and with whom. in order to end female genital mutilation, we need to ratify the istanbul convention all over the european union. it is high time, we need to step up. we need to stop this horrible practice and we need to stop telling women what to do with their bodies, because they themselves know best.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it was right that all of you who have spoken now have turned your attention to the victims. it's the right thing to do. i would like to turn now to the perpetrators, and i do not mean the mothers who often witness the mutilations and who take the girls to the mutilation, but the perpetrators themselves. the real perpetrators are the men who believe that female genital mutilation is a preparation for marriage. i mean the men who are not willing to marry a woman of their own sex, but only a woman who may have been killed in part. i would like to say to you, commissioner, that our first duty is to look at the victims. but our second duty is to make sure that education, prevention, all of these things happen on the men's side as well. as long as there is a demand - and please forgive me for this difficult word in this context - but as long as there is a demand for circumcised women, as long as there are men who say, "i will only marry a woman who is circumcised", there will be circumcision. i also call on the men in this parliament to make a commitment to talk to their gender partners and to make sure that men are empowered too. only a very, very, very weak man - a very, very weak man - would want a mutilated woman as his wife. a strong man wants a woman who can face him, who can feel pleasure, who can feel love, who can give birth to healthy children. he's a strong man. help us to make sure that we know who is weak and who is strong here. (the speaker declines to answer a question from mr o'flynn on the 'blue card' procedure.)
vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, let me start by thanking parliament for the opportunity we have to share something that is very important in our eyes and which we have adopted today: a strategy on the western balkans. this is a fundamental pillar, i would say, of the work that commissioner hahn and i together with the president and all of our colleagues have done in these months and years to reconfirm, recommit and give strong credibility to the european union perspective of the entire region of the western balkans. i say european union perspective, i do not say european perspective, because we have to start from the simple truth and the self-evidence that the western balkans are european already. they are part of europe historically and geographically. if you look at the borders, the western balkans are within the member states of the european union. we share a cultural heritage, we share the same interests at present, and we share some of the challenges at present, and we will share a common future inside our european union. there is in the western balkan strategy which we have just adopted, a clear path indicated for the western balkans and for all our six partners in the western balkans to finally join the european union on a merit—based process but with a clear, political commitment on our side to have this perspective credible and finally coming through. over the last three years, we have achieved already incredible results. our investments are increasing in the western balkans, our economic ties are as strong as they have ever been. our trade is constantly growing – i believe it’s 75% or something like this. our security is more and more connected and our foreign and security policy is more and more coordinated. out of the six, two of the western balkan partners we have – montenegro and albania – are 100% aligned with our common foreign and security policy positions. this means that we are together already, and we have seen this very clearly. a couple of years ago, when we called on them to manage together the refugee flows that were crossing the balkans, we realised that we were one. we were, as we say in the mediterranean, on the same boat. we were on the same side of the problem and of the solution. so now we are facing a reality which is that the western balkans are european. they want to clearly invest in the future membership of their countries in the european union. the people, especially the younger generations, are determined to see their future inside the european union and the leaderships have shown commitment and political courage to make the reforms needed to bring their countries in that direction. this strategy today gives a shared, unequivocal, concrete perspective for european union integration for each and every one of the six partners. it has its own pace, with its own specificities and different conditions but the direction is clear, and it is one direction. i would like to stress this, because the strategy addressing the entire region and each of the six individual is an important element if we want to understand the sense of direction of the region. the region will succeed together or fail together. there is no possibility for dividing the prospects. again, obviously it is merit—based, but history and geography tells us the perspective is one, and as one we address this situation in the strategy. of course, at the core of all of this process is the need for reforms; not the european union need for reforms but the citizens of the western balkans’ need for reforms. wherever you travel in the western balkans, young people especially tell you that they feel europeans. they want to have the same opportunities, the same guarantees, the same standards and rights, the same rights, the same fundamental freedoms, the same systems of governance and the same environment that our friends, colleagues and relatives share inside the european union, and this means the citizens of the western balkan countries are asking for reforms so that they can enjoy the same rights, protections and standards as the citizens of the european union. over the last few years commissioner hahn and i have been travelling very often to the entire region. we have seen and we are seeing a lot of ongoing reforms, with courage and determination and in the best cases with an approach that is an approach of national unity, because these challenges are never wise to be taken as political divides but more as a generational challenge for the leaderships of these countries. all of this has told us a simple truth. as i mentioned, the people and the leaders of the western balkans have made a clear choice – the choice of bringing their countries inside the european union – and today we are telling them that we have made the same choice. we are not setting a target nor a deadline, but we are setting a realistic perspective of timing – 2025 as a perspective. the process is merit—based and it depends on the pace and the success of negotiations and reforms, and let me stress this very clearly that this is a realistic perspective which is true for the countries that are currently negotiating, but also for the countries that will start negotiations in the coming months – and i believe and hope that there will be others starting negotiations soon – which will have exactly the same realistic timeframe and perspective. as i said, this is a challenge and this is a process, not for one or two countries, but for the entire region. in the past few years, as i was saying, we have seen great determination and commitment from citizens and from leaders in the region. it has not always been easy. actually, it has been very difficult from time to time. there have been political crises; there have been difficult political and electoral cycles; there have been slower and faster periods of progress. overall, though, the sense of direction in these years has been absolutely clear. all of the six have always kept moving forward towards the european union integration path. the sense of direction has been clear. the point is sustaining the sense of direction, bringing results and walking this path together. when we talk about the path towards the european union, there is plenty of langue de bois – benchmarks, chapters, criteria. once someone from the region told me: ‘my citizens couldn’t care less about how many chapters we open or we close. they don’t ‘get’ what it means by opening or closing chapters’. i think that many citizens actually get it very well, but the point is that this is not about technicalities or bureaucracy. this is real life; things that have an impact on societies that transform societies from within. it’s about guaranteeing opportunities and european standards in different fields from the economy to fundamental rights and freedoms, just to mention a couple of them. the whole process might sound technical, but it is indeed not abstract at all. it has concrete impact, it is real and it is already taking place. the process itself is leading to transformation that is positive, both for the economies and for the societies and for the governance. this strategy reconfirms a commitment and makes it explicit and clear. as i said, the door is open, we want you in. there is a need for some work to be done on both sides and we are ready to do this work together, but it also means a couple of months of very intense work that we have ahead of us. we have come somehow to the moment of truth: 2018 can be the year when this process becomes not only more credible, but also irreversible. we will have the commission’s annual report in april; we will have the eu western balkans summit in sofia – the first one for 15 years, thessaloniki was the last on – and ultimately possible council decisions in june. the strategy supports this agenda with very concrete initiatives that i imagine commissioner hahn will describe in more detail. six of them will cover all the key areas and i would just mention the headlines: rule of law, security, social and economic development, connectivity and the digital agenda – and let me translate this as it also means, for example, bringing the costs of roaming down which is one of the very concrete things that has an impact on the citizen’s life – support for reconciliation and good neighbourly relations. we have ahead of us very intense and ambitious months. together we can make 2018 a turning point – the moment when the progress towards eu membership becomes irreversible and tangible for all. our message is: ‘let’s make it happen’. we are not passing a message saying that you need to be patient. this is not the message we are passing to our friends in the western balkans. the message is: ‘let’s make it happen’. let’s bring the western balkans inside the european union not in a faraway future but in our generation on the basis of serious, concrete and tough work that we are ready to do together with our partners in the region. let me add two last words. one is that this is a reflection also on the future of europe, and it is not by chance that president juncker mentioned this in his state of the union speech here in this parliament in september. this means that the european union is imagining and considering its future not with 27 member states but potentially with more, and we say this clearly in the strategy and are starting to get ready for that. obviously, this doesn’t only depend on us. it depends on the path we will walk together. however, we are serious on this and i guess this is the first time, in these difficult times, that we are seriously having a reflection on that and i think this is a major step forward. my second and last point is that this is a challenge, and a generational challenge, not just for the commission, not just for our partners in the western balkans, and not just for the council. this is also a challenge for the european parliament and i believe that we need to be in this together. the role that the european parliament has played in our relations with the western balkans has been critical. i believe we need to continue working together to make this a success and to make this happen.
member of the commission. – mr president, from my side thank you for the opportunity to discuss the very timely western balkans strategy adopted by the commission today. i would like to use the opportunity to thank the house for all your valuable support in the past couple of years, for your interest, and your dedication in dealing with this issue. in particular, i know many members are travelling to the region, working and dealing with people, including colleagues, in the region, and it is extremely important to embrace our friends in the region in this way in order to make progress. i believe today is a big day for the countries of the western balkans and also for the european union. maybe some colleagues in the western balkans have not yet discovered the fact that it is a big day, but some things take time. that we have decided on and adopted the balkans strategy today is, in a way, a window of opportunity, in particular for the countries in the region. we confirm that the door to our union remains open: it is open beyond any doubt, with, as federica mogherini has already said, a 2025 perspective. not more, but not less, and i think this is important to recall. our six partners in the region are already part of europe, not only geographically but also emotionally and culturally. they are surrounded institutionally by eu member states. also, the european project would not be complete without them. we have a common heritage, a history, and a common future defined by our shared opportunities and challenges. the migration crisis, for example, has shown very clearly that there are certain topics on which, in a way, borders do not exist when it comes to addressing a particular topic affecting all of us. the union has repeatedly affirmed this european perspective and we have created positive momentum over the last few years, in difficult times. but we must now go a strategic step further. we must use our ‘soft power’ of attraction, this magnetic force of the european union, more efficiently and smartly. because inclusion is the best security policy for european citizens. the firm, merit-based prospect of eu membership is in our own political, security and economic interest. it is a geostrategic investment in a strong, united europe, based on common values, and we must not leave a vacuum on our doorstep for others to step into. that is why today we reaffirm this shared european perspective, this commitment to a union that is ready to expand. let’s be clear: a credible enlargement perspective is not a free lunch. it requires a tough transformation from our partners. they must now ‘walk the talk’ and deliver. the criteria are clear and they will not change: they are not technical, but are essentially about european values. it is important to stress that the balkans strategy is not an invitation or an opportunity to soften our conditions or our agreements – quite the opposite. it must be clear that we will stick to what has been agreed and what is necessary for the future. therefore, progress along their eu path depends fully on the objective merits and concrete results achieved by each individual country. there are no shortcuts on this european path. despite all the progress in the countries, a lot remains to be done, and we are very clear about this in the strategy. the western balkans countries must now urgently tackle the key areas, starting with the rule of law, fundamental rights and the fight against corruption and organised crime. also, on economic reforms and tackling high unemployment the countries must make significant progress. one thing is especially important. all countries must work even harder on reconciliation and ensure good neighbourly relations. all pending bilateral issues must be settled in a binding way ahead of accession. let’s be clear, and i think this was already stressed and mentioned today by president juncker: the european union and its member states will simply refuse to import unresolved status issues, so any new member state has to resolve its bilateral conflicts and issues with neighbouring countries. the union itself must also improve its support. this strategy therefore includes, as already mentioned by the high representative, six new flagship initiatives with, altogether, 57 very concrete individual, innovative actions. it is about the rule of law, security and migration; a focus on socio-economic development; increasing connectivity, including the aforementioned digital agenda and pushing harder for reconciliation. the union itself needs to ensure that it will be ready – institutionally and financially – to welcome new member states once the conditions are met. this will include specific provisions in the next multiannual financial framework, and refocused pre-accession aid before that. until 2020, we will not need additional money but we will be able to provide the necessary financial means – it is about eur 500 million – by restructuring and by further and better targeting of our current budget. i want to be very clear about another key point of the strategy: all western balkans countries can move on the eu path in a 2025 perspective. yes, montenegro and serbia are the current so-called front-runners, but others can catch up, and present front-runners can fall behind if they don’t deliver. so it is not 100% sure who will cross the finishing line first. as a sailor, i might say: enlargement remains a regatta and not a convoy. so once again, 2025 is not a fixed target. it is an incentive. there are no guarantees. it is actually very ambitious, but doable: a best-case scenario, if you like. whether it is achieved or not will depend entirely on the merits and results of each country. we are not giving a present to the western balkans. joining the eu is a generational choice based on fundamental values. we are making them a sincere and transparent offer. the union, but especially the leaders of the region, must now show and assume responsibility for making this historical opportunity a reality, and respond to the european aspirations of their citizens. in that respect, i strongly believe that this perspective date can provide the necessary positive pressure in order to tackle all the necessary issues and reform necessities. in this strategic project, once again, we both count on the continued support of this house because, as was said, a lot has been done but much more will have to be done in the next couple of months and years.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. federica mogherini and johannes hahn have both just pointed out: the six western balkan countries are important partners of the european union. we are closely linked geographically, culturally and economically. the stability, security and prosperity of our entire continent can only be secured in the long term if we, as the european union, help these six countries to overcome structural challenges and regional tensions. the strategy presented today sets out a concrete path and a detailed action plan for these countries to become eu members. this underpins their european perspective. from my own experience as the permanent rapporteur on serbia, i know that the prospect of eu accession has already helped to implement necessary political and economic reforms and to improve people's daily lives. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i would like to thank in particular federica mogherini and johannes hahn and all the other participants for the good preparatory work. however, the guidelines are clear: the actual date of accession of a new member state will depend exclusively on the date on which the country concerned actually fulfils and completes the strict legal, political and economic conditions. the six countries of the western balkans, however different, all share similar challenges. the eu's external relations policy is based on the principle of the rule of law, the fight against corruption and organised crime, freedom of expression and the media, the competitiveness of economies and the resolution of bilateral conflicts in the spirit of good neighbourly relations. the six western balkan countries must be judged on their own merits. we should encourage and actively support them in this.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this is a good day - a good day for the countries of the western balkans, but also a good day for the european union. we welcome the enlargement strategy presented, because it can bring a new dynamism to our process. it is a further sign to our friends in the western balkans that we are serious, and it is a clear signal to the people in the eu that we take their concerns seriously. this strategy is part of a larger picture; reforms are needed in the western balkan countries and in the eu to ensure that integration is carried out successfully. there is no lack of good words and good intentions, but there is a lack of execution and speed on both sides. the strategy is surprisingly concrete. my group supports these efforts and we will also be surprisingly specific in the mff debate when we talk about ipa funds. i do not want to go into individual countries here, because we will do so in the country reports in april, but of course more chapters have to be opened in the negotiations for serbia and montenegro. and we are calling for negotiations with albania and macedonia to be opened later this year. albania has worked hard, and in macedonia we would also show that we are no longer being blackmailed by backward nationalists - neither by those in thessaloniki nor by those in skopje nor by those in brussels. this parliament has always been involved across party lines and we will continue to do so. we hope that our partners' parliaments will also be able to work together in a constructive way, not without discussion and debate on the details. we are not taking governments into the eu, but the peoples of the western balkans. that is why it is important that we have a dialogue, perhaps more intensive, with the opposition parties in the region, because they also represent a large part of the population.
mr president, if i may make this small comment. i am only the second woman after the high representative who has spoken in this debate. especially keeping in mind the very important resolution 1321, we should make sure that female voices are also heard in these debates. it is of the utmost importance in order to create an accession process that is inclusive and that is democratic. i was born in the 1980s and as a child growing up ...(the president interrupted the speaker due to a problem with interpretation)mr president, it was so confusing for the interpreters that when they finally heard a female voice they could not interpret any more, i think that must have been the case! as i said, i grew up in the 1990s and one of my earliest childhood memories is a crying bosnian woman on the television. i went to school with classmates who were called franjo, dušan and damjan, because their parents had to flee the western balkans. and for me personally, it will be the greatest pleasure to see all countries of the western balkans join the european union. but at the same time, i must also very clearly say that we also need to make this process a success for minorities in the western balkans. we need to state very clearly that without clear progress when it comes to human rights, when it comes to the rule of law, when it comes to the rights of minorities like lgbti, we cannot have accession at the moment. we need to be absolutely clear about this, and i hope that very soon i can welcome all those citizens of the western balkan states to join the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the enlargement to include the countries of the western balkans, to name a few: we are talking about serbia, bosnia-herzegovina, kosovo, albania, macedonia and montenegro. the commission has already announced that it will be joining the eu in seven years' time. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mrs mogherini, even though you are leaving the chamber, a personal note: if the only concrete example of benefits to citizens is lower roaming charges, then the policy is at the kindergarten level, and this is not appropriate for the eu accession of these countries.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are discussing today the plan presented by the commission for the possible accession of the six western balkan countries, including macedonia, kosovo and albania, by 2025. before we consider such an enlargement, we should first of all talk about the deplorable state of the rule of law and democracy in the eu. the eu has broken its own rules on many occasions, in the euro crisis and in the migration crisis. this has divided and destabilised the eu. the consequences of brexit are well known. if the eu wanted to join the eu under this constitution, it would have to reject its own accession. it is also grotesque that the eu, which tramples on its own law, should want to discipline poland as a teacher for alleged shortcomings in the rule of law. if this continues, the question will not be which six countries will be the next to join the eu, but which six countries will be the next to follow the uk's withdrawal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is more important than the inclusion of other countries in this task, which is of secondary importance.
mr president, back to zimbabwe. i understand the current development in this country is a sign of hope. as previous speakers have pointed out, the 37 years of mr mugabe’s authoritarian regime caused zimbabwe’s economy to plummet, created social unrest and isolated the country internationally. the rule of law was not only ignored, but police brutality against critics of the regime was commonplace. now the path towards democracy seems to be in sight. mr mugabe’s decision to step down as president was the right choice and definitely overdue. the zimbabwean people are now desperately seeking a government that is able to establish the necessary reforms, but first and foremost to listen to what the people are saying. the upcoming electoral process will be an essential step. we should welcome the commitment of the authorities in harare to hold the elections in line with the constitution, and underline the importance that the conditions are in place to allow those elections to be peaceful, inclusive, credible and transparent. i would like to acknowledge, and also commend, the efforts taken by the high representative in offering assistance with reform processes in zimbabwe. the european parliament, as has been pointed out, is ready to start the preparation of an election observation as soon as we receive an invitation. we ought to stress firmly the responsibility and the accountability that lie in these promised elections. democratic processes and the rule of law are the foundations of a peaceful society. i sincerely hope the zimbabwean people will accomplish this through democratic and conflict-free elections.
i'm not going to say anything. in 2000, i was the last person to head a european parliament election observation mission to zimbabwe. we have not been invited since then, and so i am pleased to hear that it seems that there are plans to invite us along with other international observers this time. but i would also like to stress what other colleagues have already said: it is also about following up the good words with action. this means, in particular, that in the run-up to the elections there are fair conditions for all parties, that in zimbabwe, for example, the voter list is updated. and it is also important to me that it should be possible for the many millions of zimbabweans who have fled to south africa, among other places, to have the opportunity to register again in time to be able to participate in this election, because they have suffered the most, even abroad, under the difficult conditions. i hope we don't have a situation where the old guard can only hold on to power without mugabe. if you look closely, there are a lot of military people in the cabinet who have also enriched themselves over many years, and the old leadership is unchallenged. that is why it is very important that we also demand the same principles that we apply everywhere with regard to free and fair elections. and after that, there must be a process of national reconciliation in this country. i think we might be able to help with that, too.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. after 37 years of dictatorial rule, zimbabwe's former president, mugabe, was deposed in a military coup. observers on the ground are mockingly calling it the most polite revolution ever - those who have supported mugabe's rule have now taken the reins of power themselves, such as longtime intelligence chief and close associate of mugabe - the current president - mnangagwa. evidently, mismanagement, corruption, and arbitrary rule have so undermined the once-rich country that members of the former power elite have pulled the emergency brake and replaced the president and some members of the government. the people, who had been deprived of their civil and human rights, danced in the streets on the night of the change of power. the future will tell whether zimbabwe really changes and meets the expectations of the people in terms of granting civil liberties. the new president has promised elections soon. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. mnangagwa has promised early elections and international election observation. we should be watching very closely developments in zimbabwe, and should encourage and support the civil forces if there is indeed a democratic transition.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. president erdoğan is leading turkey further and further away from european values and thus also away from the eu. erdoğan's turkey will continue to be on the path towards a state of injustice. to name just a few examples: systematic silencing of political opposition, massive restrictions on freedom of the press and expression, imprisonment of judges, journalists, activists and citizens, and increasingly state persecution of critical voices on social media. this leaves out any understanding of freedom, the rule of law and democracy by european standards. one thing is clear: an accession perspective must always be realistic and above all presuppose the willingness of the turkish government to fulfil these criteria. but i do not see this willingness in the face of the continued disregard for human rights, fundamental rights and freedoms under the leadership of erdoğan. europe must therefore draw the consequences of this development. i am very clear: even if the recent constitutional changes were to be withdrawn, the accession negotiations must remain frozen. the european union is a community of values, we defend civil and human rights and we also demand that the copenhagen criteria be complied with. the turkish government itself must ask itself the question: does it want to be a community of values with the eu or does it want to be an illiberal autocracy? the latter has absolutely no place in the eu. the military intervention in afrin also calls into question turkey's ability to form alliances. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is a party to the treaty of rome. the turkish government's actions in afrin are moving further and further away from this common base of values. we must therefore make clear in the dialogue what we expect of turkey as an ally.
i have to say, madam president, the human rights situation in turkey is truly appalling. hardly a day goes by without we hearing about the human rights situation in turkey. the authocracy that is in place is only a foretaste of what will happen when the constitutional amendment is implemented in turkey, when the presidential dictatorship is established. the turkish government has repeatedly extended the state of emergency and is thus permanently suspending the convention on human rights. president erdoğan is clearly using this state of emergency exclusively to silence and remove critics, political opponents and also those of other faiths from public life. opposition figures, journalists, human rights activists, academics, lawyers, all sorts of representatives of civil society are in prison. the turkish judiciary has long since ceased to be reliable. the law of arbitrariness prevails in courts and authorities. new groups are being targeted. while initially the kurds and alleged gülen supporters were targeted, now almost everyone who makes even a rash statement must fear for his freedom. any criticism seems to be criminalized and equated with terrorism. those who are not arrested are fired, expropriated, otherwise silenced. there are plenty of examples. all these people, and that includes one third of judges and lawyers, one tenth of police officers, 110,000 civil servants and teachers, 5,000 academics, all fired. all these people are facing nothing, no financial support, no pension entitlements, nowhere to find a new job. you're going to be broke pretty fast. it is quite obvious that this is an example to be set. the mood of the population is poisoned by spite, fear and agitation. the situation is really dramatic. if the european union does not act now, it will lose its credibility once and for all. yes, the reduction or redistribution of ipa funds was our first signal to turkey. but obviously this is not enough, and i wonder if this friendly dialogue, in which we are still moving, will achieve a change in the human rights situation in turkey. i think we will have to change our approach soon, and i would strongly recommend that we take a critical look at the customs union.
i have to say, madam president, how long will turkey be treated as a candidate country here? what must the country do before it finally falls from grace? we have heard this morning in the case of croatia that there are some who oppose the inclusion of refugees until the border disputes are resolved. the border conflicts of turkey with greece, with cyprus are not resolved, obviously not with syria, obviously not with iraq. how can it be that turkish troops are invading abroad to kill kurds, who have been partners of the united states, partners of other nato countries like germany, like eu countries, and have helped us in the fight against daesh, against isis? when will we finally go on to impose sanctions on turkey, so that we can speak a clear, unambiguous foreign policy?
i have to say, madam president, erdoğan's decree 696 sounded the death knell for a rule of law review of the 2016 coup attempt. lynch justice is now desired, while peaceful protest, political opposition and critical journalism are going to jail. the existence of many teachers and scientists is destroyed, tens of thousands live in the houses in cizre and diyarbakır displaced long before the state of emergency. and now the supposed terrorists that erdoğan feels threatened by are also in syria and afrin. i ask: where is the clear condemnation of this attack under international law by the eu, by the nato partners, yes, and also by russia? a peaceful solution to the kurdish question would improve the human rights situation in the whole region. instead of refugee deals and weapons, the region needs humanitarian corridors, an end to the war in syria. let us put an end to the betrayal of human rights in turkey by ending the eu's policy of looking the other way, of closing off and outsourcing problems.
madam president, distinguished turkish guests! the explanation of the failed coup, which is undoubtedly necessary, is increasingly being used in turkey as a justification for burying the rule of law, the separation of powers, freedom of expression and human rights. tens of thousands of men and women - teachers, judges, lawyers, academics, opposition politicians, mayors, soldiers, human rights activists - and hundreds of small children have been in prison in turkey for months and years. more journalists are imprisoned in turkey than in any other country. mehmet altan and şahin alpay remain in prison despite the constitutional court ruling that their detention was unlawful. similarly, the chairman of the amnesty group in turkey, taner kılıç, and the cases of deniz yücel or my friends ahmet şık, osman kavala and selahattin demirtaş show that international pressure to return to the rule of law has so far failed. i would therefore urge the european court of human rights to finally hear and decide on these cases of injustice without further embarrassing delay. when i think of turkey, i often feel angry, but also sad. it's terrible to see so much of the democratic spirit, so much of the future of the country disappear behind prison walls. i have to tell you, when i think of afrin, i get scared. what is happening in afrin and idlib are again crimes against humanity, which violate international law in afrin. the biggest region of despots is threatened with a new escalation. mr hahn and mrs mogherini have the difficult task of taking it from here that we are asking you to stop a new wildfire in this region. because that's what i'm afraid of: afrin will be a conflagration. i would also like to appeal to you to take this message back to turkey: turkey has been stable for a long time and on the right track. turkey too - that is my great fear - may be dragged into this conflagration.
i have to say, madam president, the human rights situation in turkey is bad. we have seen that after 2016 after the coup attempt in turkey there have been many purges and also many court proceedings that are far from meeting the requirements of the rule of law. and turkey's treatment of its own kurdish minority has been very problematic in recent years, indeed for decades. and finally, now with turkey's attack on the kurdish areas in northern syria, it is clear that turkey does not respect the law, not even international law. this is not just about the internal affairs of a country. turkey is still a candidate country for eu membership and we should put an end to this state of hypocrisy. turkey has no prospect of joining the eu at present and for the time being. but, building on this, we must also take note of the strategic importance of turkey both for the eu and for many other states in its vicinity. we must therefore strive to stop the accession negotiations on the one hand, but at the same time to maintain dialogue with turkey and to achieve a strategic partnership.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. you know that picture of the three monkeys who hear nothing, see nothing, say nothing? i am not going to go into the details of the situation, but i would like to say that the european union and my german government have played a very important role in the fight against human rights and the behaviour of the turkish leader erdoğan in northern syria. how long are we gonna play dumb? over 100 journalists have been arrested since 2016, and we're seeing nothing. erdoğan is storming northern syria without a mandate, in violation of international law, fighting the kurdish-christian ypg forces - our most reliable partner in the fight against isis - and we are saying nothing. his troops are firing german guns at the border on refugees, on 3,000-year-old christian sites, and we? i didn't hear anything. he's arresting turkish doctors who are demonstrating for peace, and, and, and. we're friendly negotiators for eu membership, paying billions for a few thousand refugees. who are you trying to explain this to, when you are at the same time labelling israel and falsely holding it responsible for behaviour in democracy and the rule of law? let's be honest about this. let's stop all payments to erdoğan! we must stop all negotiations with turkey and condemn the unlawful conduct in northern syria. let's stand by our values!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the decision of the us government to link aid payments to unrwa with political demands represents a dangerous politicization of humanitarian aid. i am deeply concerned about the delay in payment. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the association of the european community and the european atomic energy community with the european atomic energy community. there is a risk that such substantial cuts in humanitarian aid could lead to further instability in the region. the assessment is shared by israel and the chief of the general staff of the israeli army, gadi eizenkot. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all the palestinians who have been killed in the gaza strip. he also said that humanitarian aid should be treated separately from other issues. i welcome the eu's decision to provide additional funding to unrwa in some member states - including germany - under the fast track procedure. but for long-term financing we also need a multilateral global financing framework. i would like to make a special appeal to the financial commitments of the members of the arab league. the eu must continue to support unrwa as a reliable partner and to work towards the development of a global funding plan. i call on the european parliament to send a clear, non-partisan message to the international community in this regard in the vote on thursday. i am confident that my negotiations on our resolution between all the political groups will do so.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report of danuta maria hübner and pedro silva pereira, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the composition of the european parliament (2017/2054(inl) (a8-0007/2018).
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not on monday, the epp group informed the press that the agreement it had negotiated on reducing parliamentary seats after 2019 was a priority this week. it's called fake news. in reality, the power of the divided epp was known to be sufficient only to prevent the permanent system badly needed for future seat allocations. the report also does not follow the widespread belief that brexit will lead to savings, but focuses on remedying the continuing irregularity in the allocation of seats. i think that is right, and i would also like to thank the two co-rapporteurs. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. that's right for me. but it was clear to us as gue/ngl that the report must take brexit seriously in legal terms, but the political process must be kept open. because history is open, even to the people of the united kingdom, including respect for the good friday agreement. the compromise reached is pragmatic and politically sound. but let 's face it . there would also have been an urgent need for a debate on the need to strengthen the democratic foundations of european politics, i.e. on how the people can make their interests and needs heard, and perhaps also on how the european parliament - strengthened, for example, by the right of initiative - as an institution directly elected by citizens, can take over the shaping of their daily lives. but that was with the political ...
thank you very much, mr. mayer. mr mayer, you spoke directly to me. if you were there more often, instead of always talking and then disappearing, you would notice that i have a fairly consistent practice and that with me everyone has a few seconds left over to the extent that they have time to speak. you can follow this very closely in the archives of the european parliament. i am not perfect either, and mr verhofstadt has been interrupted. i am a little more lenient in the first round of the debate - including yours - anyway. you have to be there by noon. the president of the council, who will be taking over from me, should not be short of breath and should be particularly strict in keeping to the timetable. please go to the archives or have your staff check it out.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. today we have the chance to take a big step towards more european democracy. we want to give the citizens two votes in the european elections: one for the existing national lists and then - new - a second vote for the transnational european lists. the european elections have a fundamental problem: they are not european elections. they're in the prison of national campaigns, national voters, national election laws. we have seen it, europe is second-rate; it is often not because of internal political conflicts. i believe that 40 years after the introduction of direct elections it is high time to take the next step and to make european elections truly european. we have european parties now, but what can they do? i don't know. you can't fight for the mandates. that's why they're not real parties. we have a top candidate process where people can't even vote for him. you can only vote for him in your own country. the missing link is the european list which the european parties can democratically draw up and which citizens throughout the union can choose their top candidates for the office of president of the commission. it is astonishing that this parliament, in 1998 - exactly 20 years ago - adopted a decision on the european lists by a very large majority, even across the political families. it is somewhat sobering to see that 20 years later we are not taking a step forward, but stagnating with arguments that were already there at the time, and at best taking a step backwards. i think that the europe-skeptics and anti-europeans are right to oppose this, because they sense that we are witnessing a breakthrough for the european public, european elections, the formation of a political demonstration at european level. but the fact that the pro-europeanists are against it here irritates me. above all, because i heard the petty argument that macron would make a list with europe en marche and that was not wanted in 2019. how petty and shortsighted!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. we are talking about the future distribution of the 73 seats of the british members of parliament after their withdrawal from the european parliament. i would like to make three points: first, here the bear's fur is distributed before it is even killed. secondly, if a member state leaves, the number of seats in the european parliament must be reduced accordingly. there's nothing new to distribute, it's to delete. but this is expressly rejected, the self-service mentality is boundless here. thirdly, the proposed redistribution of the seats left vacant leaves germany empty. the german citizens are thus the least represented in the strasbourg assembly. this european parliament is constantly giving lessons in democracy, but it is clearly not fulfilling the demands it makes on others. i call on the german government to accept neither the non-deletion of all the british seats nor the allocation of the seats chosen and to block both in the council. the systematic discrimination against german citizens in the european parliament must be stopped. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. it's more centralized and more distant from the citizenry. that's it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, we are pleased that an agreement has obviously been reached on the future distribution of seats in the event that the british do leave. we would have liked to have had even fewer members, but we also see that imbalances and injustices can now be compensated for. three points for the future: firstly, we must finally adopt a formula which makes the distribution of seats predictable in the long term and which is also legally sound. secondly, eu countries with a significant population decline will eventually have to accept that with a smaller population there will also have to be fewer meps. thirdly, we must not allow transnational lists to appear. these lists are a gateway for populists like wilders or le pen. i really wonder why we are making it so easy for well-known but radical anti-europeans to enter parliament, and why we are distancing ourselves ever further from the people and their problems. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. this will only interest these transnational super politicians marginally, if at all. and so we're creating a political art world that doesn't care about details and doesn't care about constituency work. that 's why we should oppose the transnational lists ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am particularly sorry that my british colleagues will not be in this house any time soon, and i reject the plans of this parliament to reallocate some of these seats now rather than simply abolishing them altogether. the new distribution of seats is increasingly distorting the weighting of votes to the detriment of my country, germany. in future, german citizens will be the least represented country in the eu. a maltese citizen is worth about 12 times as much to the eu as a german. i am even more surprised, however, that all the german colleagues in the committee have agreed to this disadvantage for their own country. i assume that most of our german colleagues in the house will do the same. the distribution of seats will continue to weaken the position of the germans. so with the british we will not only lack an important voice of reason here in the european union, we will be able to oppose all the wishes for centralisation, all the wishes for european taxes, european finance ministers, a banking union, a deposit guarantee and so on with fewer opposing voices. the message to germany must therefore be that it will not provide the eu with additional powers or additional financial resources. the swing to a new old grand coalition in my country, however, makes me fear the worst here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. transnational lists are a sin against federalism. it is not for nothing that all the federal states do not have national lists, because they do not want to express centralism, because they want to be close to the citizens. i do not want to be elected on a list from helsinki to lisbon where no citizen sees me as his point of contact. i want to be elected in east-westphalia-lippe, i want to be elected at home. legitimacy is built on proximity to the citizens, not distance, and that is the key point for any parliament. we need to make it clear that the top candidate process is the way to carry european ideas in a campaign across europe; this needs to be strengthened. the top candidate will lead the public to decide who will be the european head of government in the european elections. this cannot be done by the 27 people on the transnational list, but must be decided by the 705 members elected by the citizens on the ground. i think this is a matter of great legitimacy, and if i consider that a number of heads of government who are in favour of transnational lists are against the leading candidate, then this means that in this way the transnational lists are an alibi for the weakness of europe and lead to the disenfranchisement of the citizen, in order to put the 27 people who do not matter in the centre of attention here. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i believe that citizens must vote in their constituencies, in their regions, and that this brings us together in this house, in the group, to pursue common european interests. and that we must make sure that the citizens' vote on the ground helps us to get a commission president, a head of government, who comes from the will of those citizens on the ground and not from an artificial meeting of 27 people from collective movements, so that presidents and prime ministers can manipulate this house and give us alibi events.
i have to say, madam president, i support the report and i hope above all that the proposal to introduce transnational lists will receive a majority today, because i am convinced that transnational lists are good for european democracy. i am very sorry that my colleague elmar brok, whom i greatly appreciate, is no longer in the chamber at the moment. i must say that his arguments, and those of others here today, have not convinced me at all. i heard a radio interview this morning where mr brok said that citizens should know who they can call and who they can send e-mails and letters to. that would be the reference to the local representative, and he would like to be elected only in westfalen-lippe. i get letters, i get calls from citizens not only from berlin, but from all over germany. i also receive e-mails and letters from all over europe because the citizens know our addresses. they know we're here to decide their affairs, and they write to us and contact us. i think that in the case of transnational lists mr brok could just as well continue to run on the national list, namely in ostwestfalen-lippe, or on the transnational list. it's his decision.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, let me start by saying that the code of conduct is here to hold members of the commission to the highest levels of integrity. i believe that we have a strong code of conduct, strengthened over the years as we have learned from our mistakes. to paraphrase alexander hamilton, if people were angels, we would not need rules. it is in this vein that on 13 september last year we proposed to improve transparency, strengthen democratic legitimacy and enforce our collective high standards through a renewed statute for the funding of political parties and movements. we are doing this in order to close loopholes that are clearly prone to abuse. i believe parliament and the council are not that far apart, and i look forward to the swift adoption of that proposal so as to be in time for the next parliamentary elections in 2019. but let me now turn to the code of conduct again. the commission would welcome support for allowing commissioners to stand in, and campaign for, european elections without having to take leave; and for revising the framework agreements between the european parliament and the commission accordingly. article 10 of the new code of conduct makes the safeguards in relation to commissioners participating in elections very clear. in line with paragraph 4 of this article, parliament will be informed of the measures taken to ensure respect for the principles of independence, integrity and discretion. present juncker has tasked the commission secretariat-general with preparing guidance on this matter in time for the next european election. parliament’s reply to the consultation on the new code of conduct came in time to allow most of its provisions to enter into force on 1 february this year as planned. at the same time, it is clear that the provisions governing participation in european elections will enter into force only once the amendments to the framework agreement have been formally adopted by parliament. the commission addresses in the new code of conduct as many of the concerns expressed by parliament as possible. president tajani has written a letter to president juncker regarding the areas where parliament would deem further changes desirable. the commission has analysed these carefully and i know that president juncker will respond in a letter which he will send out shortly. you also take the opportunity in your report to restate parliament’s support for the process of ‘lead candidates’ or spitzenkandidaten. yesterday morning president juncker spoke clearly about the lead candidate system, as well as the question of transnational lists. he noted that both issues, in their own way, generate political debate between eu institutions. the commission will contribute constructively to that debate in the form of a contribution to the leaders’ meeting on the 23rd of this month, and in that context i will listen carefully to your contributions to this debate today.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, first i want to thank esteban gonzález pons for his work on this dossier. this morning we are discussing the fundamental question of how we can organise democracy on a european level. the eu is not a state, but it’s already a key decision—maker in a lot of important areas in the daily life of citizens. that’s why it’s important to discuss this issue. the lisbon treaty was already a big step: today, the european parliament, now directly elected, is powerful, and we decide together with the council. people and states are deciding – that is europe. now it’s a question of whether there is a need for another approach at european level to practising democracy. i would say not. there is no need for an innovative approach on this. in my small village, where my home is in bavaria, when we elect a mayor, we have a candidate and we have a programme. when in october of this year we hold an election in bavaria for the prime minister of bavaria, we will have candidates from the different parties and each candidate will have a programme, a profile. when people in france vote in the presidential elections for a president of france, they have a candidate and this candidate has a programme. sorry, dear friends, but i am fed up of asking for the same procedure, which is established at all other levels, to be allowed at european level, too – to present people, before we go to vote, with a candidate and with a programme. that is democratic and that is what we should also do in 2019. dear friends, churchill said once that it is the people who control the government, not the government the people. this sentence is also true for the heads of states and governments around europe. president macron, for example, is making a lot of effort to strengthen the european union, but on the top candidate concept, we need a clear answer from him, too. if macron wants to stick to a democratic europe then he has to agree to the lead candidate process. i hope that the president is listening to our debate here today. he can read our lips when we say very clearly that the epp group will not accept a candidate for commission president who was not presented during the campaign as lead candidate of a democratic party and cannot bring together a qualified majority in the newly—elected european parliament. we need a president of the european commission who is elected, and not selected behind closed doors. i appeal to the european council: let’s not now start a power game among the institutions; let’s simply practise democracy. i’m very, very pleased that leovaradkar, andrej plenković and sebastian kurz – who gave his support in an interview on saturday – and now finally jean—claude juncker, the current commission president, were absolutely clear that they support the concept. so there is growing support for this idea, even in the council. let’s make europe democratic, let’s fight for the top candidate concept. (applause)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the report by mr pons focuses on parliament's attitude to the lead candidate procedure; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the report on the future composition of the european parliament which we are discussing is affecting this procedure because it deals with the issue of transnational lists and, consequently, also with the office of the lead candidate. we hope to hear something about the council's position this afternoon, and yes, the vote on the composition of the ep has not yet taken place in this house either. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he has not already made a statement on the subject. in my country, is political competition in elections constitutionally incompatible with any partisan involvement of state bodies or their functionaries? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. now the eu is not a state, we don't have a constitution. but the neutrality principle should be applied in the same way. this raises the question: when is it that a commissioner acts with the authority of the office and uses the resources associated with it, and when is it that he is only on the move on party lines? the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council in the form of a regulation. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. as you know, we have various left-wing structures and parties in our group, including members of the european left party. we have had a leading candidate in the current legislature, and that is the current prime minister, mr tsipras. we shall therefore put forward one such candidate, or perhaps several, in the next european elections.
we cannot repeat the debate that has already taken place. i therefore call for a vote and remind you that approval requires a majority of the members of parliament. i'm going to put it to a vote. (by electronic vote, 357 members voted in favour of the proposal, which was not adopted.)
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i mean, i know. we have freedom of speech, so everyone can speak.
there was no official word on the subject, so i didn't call it. you know that the rules require that you give your consent in advance if you intend to give a statement of vote.
i'm sorry it didn't get to us. but you still have the opportunity to give your explanation of vote in writing, as the rules say. we have not received any application. i'm sorry, i can't discuss this with you right now. i have to follow the rules as they are written. i would like to give mr arnott the floor. you've already spoken several times today.
no, there is no vote interpretation for that. the rules of procedure provide that explanations of vote may be given only on texts on which votes are taken.
author. – madam president, inequality has reached shocking new levels and is threatening to tear our societies apart, not only globally, but also in europe. in the european union, some 120 million people are poor; 28 million children live in households that cannot provide for their basic needs – food, health care, education or housing. it is absolutely shameful that the richest continent of the world does not take proper care of its own children. even though the european economy is on the mend again and unemployment is going down, income and wealth inequality is on the rise, and an alarming 40% of wealth is in the hands of only 1% of the richest europeans. clearly the neo-liberal myth of the invisible hand and trickle-down economics is not going to sort out the situation, nor are today’s insufficient policy efforts. the election of trump, and brexit, which also stemmed from a growing disappointment with the status quo, must be the wake-up call for the last sleep-walkers. the growing gap between the rich and the poor is undermining the social and democratic fabric of our societies. it is high time to act now. big challenges require strong political answers. we socialists and democrats fight side by side with an alliance of ngos and social partners for strong policy responses that will work. we will campaign for an equitable and sustainable society of shared prosperity, opportunity and dignity. we call on the commission to rapidly act and introduce an inequality reduction strategy within the european semester to achieve income growth, especially for the bottom 40%. we are working for a poverty eradication road map to halve the number of people living in poverty by 2030, and for a directive on decent working conditions. we wish to create a living wage index to help define appropriate minimum wages in each member state. if we know how devastating the consequences of inequalities are, why do we not use the remaining time in this mandate to improve the lives of the most needy europeans? let us introduce a child guarantee that ensures that each and every child in every country is able to access proper health care, good schooling and a healthy diet. let us introduce a framework directive for decent working conditions that ensures that workers are no longer at risk of exploitation. let us have protection against poor pay and have proper social rights, regardless of whether people work in industry or in digital platforms. and let us end the rhetoric of free trade that tries to convince people that trade only needs to be free to work for the people, because this neglects the hardship of those without jobs in deprived regions. we know that only with proper environment and sustainability provisions can trade be really progressive. a lot can be done to take this fight to the next level. the social pillar must be properly implemented, we need strong improvements on maternity and paternity leave – parenthood must not mean poverty. we must continue to fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. digital giants have to pay proper taxes too. i would like to appeal to the whole house. my group, the socialists and democrats, are willing to fight for that today, tomorrow and each and any other day of this mandate. we very much hope that you will join us.
i have to say, madam president, mr bullmann, mrs rodrigues, i am grateful to you for putting this on the agenda. it's a really hot topic. but i have to say, i've only heard normative sentences here: we have to do, we have to introduce rights. a doctor, when he does treatments, first makes a diagnosis. i haven't heard a diagnosis here. the euro area is considered as a single unit. they say unemployment has gone down in 2017. no, if you exclude germany, unemployment is still higher than in 2009. and if we see that unemployment is now falling and employment is increasing - yes, where is it increasing? with the precarious working conditions, the low pay. this is the consequence of an internal devaluation. it's just the way it is. if you are a monetary union, two of the three parameters of action that are central to the competitiveness of an economy are missing: interest rates and exchange rates. there's only the job market. that leaves the wages. unemployment rises, wages fall, and then you're competitive again. this is the consequence of monetary union. there's so much to be said about the disparity. this is where you start. if the labour market acts as an adjustment mechanism, we will have exactly the situation you are complaining about now, and we will be complaining about it again in five years' time because it has not changed. what we really need to do is make sure that countries become competitive. without competitiveness, there are no well-paid jobs. when the economist said about greece ten years ago, greece's economy is hopelessly uncompetitive. that is the reason for the difficulties greece is having. if you complain about that, it's politically acceptable. if you have monetary union, it's always about the labour market. and then i hear: we must make the monetary union safer. no, we must make people's jobs and incomes more secure, not monetary union!
madam president, yes, colleagues are right. social inequality should be fought by any means, and as a matter of itself, but even more so – as any history book will tell you – when there are rising inequalities in society. there are certain politicians, and we have them here in this chamber too, who will use this – who will instrumentalise the fear and the social problems arising from it – to play the weaker against the weakest. we see this today. we see refugees being played against pensioners, we see greek nurses being played against single mothers in germany. and, i tell you, instead of following this divisive rhetoric and these divisive so-called proposals, we need to present something from european level to show that we are fighting for greater social equality. i agree, yes, we have a currency union so we are tied together: so we also have to work together on social matters and introduce social standards at european level, because otherwise i believe the whole european project is in danger, and we do not want that. we need to act now.
i have to say, madam president, the studies which have been used by the european parliament for years are partly methodologically questionable. they are lumping post-communist countries, which still have low inequality and high growth, into a pot with western states. inequality is the incentive in a market economy to be productive. because yes, there is inequality. in my country, real estate prices are spiraling out of control in many cities because of the high level of migration within the eu and mario draghi's monetary policy creating bubbles in the real estate markets. this puts pressure on millions of households - it's unfair. there are other bubbles, like the stock market. stockholders have gotten richer because mario draghi is driving up the stock price. if interest rates are no longer manipulated, they will lose that wealth. should stockholders be punished for draghis' monetary policy? that would not be fair, because this inequality is politically caused. the policies of this house often contribute, even if perhaps unintentionally, to exacerbating inequality.
a writer. the commission is not the bulgarian presidency is now the sixth presidency to deal with the european parliament's november 2015 request six presidencies without result. we have had informal contacts, but there is no official position from the council, and we are taking giant steps towards the next european elections in may 2019. so if you don't make it in the bulgarian presidency, then that's a lost cause. as mrs hübner has already said, the european elections need improvement. they are stuck in the 1976 electoral act with some 2002 amendments. but they no longer correspond to the importance of these elections in the eu today. we have tabled 16 proposals, and i have the impression that in the council every single proposal is being talked down to and shoved aside with some arguments. we have, for example, proposed that we prepare the european elections in a more serious, democratic and transparent manner. it is not possible that in some countries candidates only know that they are candidates two weeks before the election. you really need more time to run a campaign. we have also proposed that citizens should identify which of their national parties are european parties, so that they can have a clearer view of what they are voting for and the direction in which europe is moving. we wanted gender equality on the ballot. we have made bold proposals to lower the voting age to 16 and to examine whether electronic voting in european elections is also possible, whether the millions of citizens who do not live in their own country will also be able to vote in european elections, something which is currently not possible in many member states. on the other hand, citizens do not vote twice. so a lot of innovation and improvement, and the dossier just gets stuck in the council. i have the impression that the council is breaching its duty to provide this directly elected house of commons with the information it needs to make progress on an important matter. we ask you, where is it, and when can we expect an answer?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i thank the council for trying to make a political statement on this matter. but let me make a preliminary remark: from the point of view of the democratic constitution of the european union, it is a grim sign that, between the six-monthly statements of the council - of incoming and outgoing council presidencies - the council must be explicitly quoted here in this house in order to understand what it is doing behind closed doors somewhere. it is not simply a question of information, but of institutional cooperation between the european parliament and the council, which the council is also obliged to do under article 13 of the treaty, including the electoral reform which has been in progress for two years, as well as our right of inquiry. i can understand that there are many contradictions, national views, and that if one party wants to go in one direction and the other wants to go in the other, a compromise must be found. but, tired of trying and finding a balance, the rules of the game are changed internally, which sets off the centrifuges and not only provokes contradiction, but also organizes resistance. we heard about it in the house today. the council is obviously no longer able to tie these knots, it has become too entangled in the most diverse constellations of political interests. that is why the question that still stands before me today - and i quote from my speech on the right to vote of 27 october 2015 - is whether strengthening public space in europe will help to overcome the long-standing silence between citizens and politicians in europe, and whether it will lead to more active and passive political participation of those who have been excluded, and to greater gender parity. the council must provide us with information on the state of the electoral reform.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i have a question, mr president. i am listening to you, but i do not know what you are trying to tell us, because what you are saying has nothing whatsoever to do with parliament's proposal for the reform of the european elections. we are not talking about small countries at all, big countries; we're talking about more transparency and more democracy and more equality. that's the point! what you're talking about has nothing to do with the subject at all. i don't know what you'd say.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. exactly 100 years ago, the prussian three-class voting system in germany came to an end: it was abolished. the prussian three-class system was a relic of a pre-democratic era, a system where citizens did not have the same voting rights, where they could not vote in the same election. today, 100 years later, we stand in this parliament and talk about electoral reform without addressing the problem that we in europe still have the same unequal voting rights. there are six maltese members of parliament in this parliament. if we had equal voting rights, then there would have to be a thousand german members of parliament. there are only 96 german members of parliament sitting here. there are 900 german mps missing. hundreds of french members are missing, hundreds of british members are missing, hundreds of members from spain, poland, hungary, virtually all the major member states of the eu are missing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this parliament has no more democratic legitimacy, unless we change the electoral law at this point, than any other parliament elected under the prussian three-class system more than 100 years ago. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. you should look at the history of federal bicameral systems. it is always a mixture of the rights of the small and the big. in the european union, the large countries have much more power in the council than the länder in germany have in the bundesrat. that is why the balance has been restored through the european parliament. in the u.s. senate, every state, no matter how large, has only two senators. please be familiar with federal systems and don't fool around in the prussian electoral law - probably because you're better suited there too.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to answer this question. but if i may point out: in a bicameral system, there is always one chamber representing the government or something in a state, and then there is a parliament. and in every modern society, this parliament is elected as the representative of the citizens by means of an equal vote. it is only in europe that this is not the case, and you will have to explain to me why it is not the case.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it's about time we got an answer from the council. i must say that i have not been able to make any sense of your remarks, because you have not told us, unfortunately, on what specific points you now hope that we will actually see changes. could you tell us exactly what points you hope to reach consensus on? i would just like to say one more thing: what we in the green group clearly do not share is that the attempt to bring more democracy and transparency to european elections has been combined by the majority groups in this parliament with curtailing the rights of small parties to run successfully in the corresponding elections in spain and germany. given the many smaller parties in this house, this is not a legitimate circumcision. and i think, mr leinen, that in the tradition of social democracy, the attempt to re-introduce the 5% threshold, which failed in germany in the european elections, through this legislation is not the greatest measure of fairness. it was not a fair move towards the smaller parties in spain and germany. we didn't need this here. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – thank you for the question. actually i didn’t say anything about this, because this was not the core of our proposal. we lost, unfortunately, an important vote. i am still quite sad at the negative outcome of the former vote which we lost, and it will mean for 20 years no transnational list, no big move forward for transnational democracy in europe with elections. but here we have a lot of practical proposals on how to improve transparency and democracy, and for this we still deserve a proper and constructive answer from the council.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, corruption is an evil that unfortunately still we have not overcome, and i think every single member state does have corruption. but the important thing is to recognise that and to work against it, tirelessly and relentlessly, because corruption actually undermines the very fabric of society. it makes people lose trust in state and a democracy; it also leads to big losses of public money – money that is urgently needed elsewhere. and in romania, tens of thousands of people are on the streets, against a corrupt political elite – an elite which sees itself as running a state as a sort of self-service system and which misuses its power to protect itself from justice. and after significant progress that had been made by romania leading up to eu accession and in the years afterwards, now what we actually see is steps backwards. the progress is being reversed, and this is bad for the romanian government, for the romanian citizens, but also for the whole of the european union – and romanian citizens are eu citizens. with the new laws, prosecutors are deprived of indispensable instruments for investigation, courts are put under more political control, and corruption is even partly decriminalised. the new laws clearly have one objective: to weaken the legal system and to make it harder to prosecute high-level corruption. we expect the romanian government and the romanian parliament to follow the court ruling and to make the laws compatible with eu standards and eu rules. corruption has a direct effect on citizens in romania. we see this in the bad condition in many schools. we see this in hospitals, where you risk actually getting more infections. we see coal power plants that run without a permit for years and with the full knowledge of the authorities. and as greens, we also came to romania to speak with the authorities; we came to speak with the citizens on the street; we wrote to the european commission; and we also asked for this debate to happen. i want to stress what i said before: romanian citizens are european citizens. they have the same rights as every other european citizen. that’s why we as greens cannot accept that romanians are still being deprived of one of the most basic and fundamental freedoms of europeans: that is, to be a member of the schengen zone and to travel freely within the union. we need to end the situation that romanians are being stopped at borders that we thought we overcome. romanians have the right to be free of corruption, to have a government that cares about public interest, and to enjoy their european freedoms.
a writer. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. she shall be free to profess her religion or belief, individually or in association with others, in public or in private, by worship, teaching, customs and rites. this is stated in article 10 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. i want to focus on these particular vulnerabilities, the many women human rights defenders around the world who are fighting for the fundamental right to religious freedom and who are persecuted for it: missionaries, nuns and religious women, wives of priests, believers. all of them, by the millions, fighting for religious freedom and the right to live their faith. i would like to ask you, commissioner: we have to be very careful not to let the european parliament, the council and the commission, be the ones to decide on the future of the european union. i think we should keep an eye on it, especially because their numbers are so alarmingly high. 200 million christians are persecuted worldwide for fighting for the human right to believe. more than half of them are women. let us keep them in mind as we speak today about more support for women human rights defenders.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner, you are responsible for this change in time, winter and summer time. you said you didn't want a patchwork carpet in europe. we do not want that either; we want to abolish the time change, and we want to do so uniformly throughout europe. it was introduced to conserve energy. in fact, the energy savings are in the range of 0.1 to 0.5%; this has been shown in many studies. what you may save in light at night by having more daylight, you need in the morning for heating or for lighting. in this respect, there are many negative effects which have already been mentioned. and that's what it's all about, that's what drives people. it's even bad for the climate, you know, because the sun is producing more co2 pollution practically in the evening, and that's not good for the climate... (interrupting call) no, it's true, actually, let me finish! otherwise, as far as health is concerned: a lot of people suffer from it. according to a long-term study in germany by the employees' health insurance fund, there is a 25% increase in heart attacks immediately afterwards, a 15% increase in sick leave, a 12% increase in depression, and because there is usually less sleep, there are concentration problems that lead to poorer performance in school and to more traffic accidents involving children and adolescents in the morning. we always fight to have fewer road accidents, and the opposite is actually true. this can't be happening! then you have to think about: in the case of animals: the cows produce up to 10% less milk. it has to do with the fact that we all have an internal clock, all living things. it has to do with the position of the sun, for example, and the earth's day/night rhythm, and we interrupt that. chronobiologists have been awarded the nobel prize for realizing just how important this is to the organism. and we're just going to walk away from it? there are 140 countries in the world that have already made the switch 50% they have taken back again russia for example because they noticed that among other things there is a decline in the gross national product, which of course they did not want. why do we want to be more stupid than mr putin, for example? so, health, traffic accident... (the president cut the speaker off)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. a day has 24 hours, and that means that we won't gain an hour with daylight saving time. arguments that the time change allows us to spend more time outdoors in the evening, or that more people go shopping after work and therefore increase consumption, i simply cannot understand. these arguments are out of proportion to the detrimental effects on the health of many citizens caused by the change in time. secondly, some of my colleagues may think that there are more important problems in the world than the random clock-winding. but those who are mentally and physically managing the change of time will see it differently. and these are the citizens who struggle with sleep disorders and illnesses, the farmers in animal production, the entrepreneurs facing high conversion costs, or the people who get into a traffic accident because of fatigue. all of these and many more will thank us if we succeed in abolishing the nonsense of time-shifting. thirdly, some 400 million europeans do not care much whether the clock changes or not - they do not suffer from it. but 100 million suffer from it, and that's a very large proportion and an extreme proportion. i am fighting for the abolition of the time change because it does not make 80% of the eu population worse off, but it makes 20% much better off. i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote for the abolition of this unspeakable change of time.
the commission has already done so. the natural rhythm of us humans is determined by the rising and setting of the sun. the current eu summertime arrangements are disrupting the biological clock. no scientific study has yet been able to prove any positive effects on human health. i therefore ask the commission to present scientifically verifiable evidence to justify the retention of summertime. more important than the rhythm of the economy is the natural rhythm of people's lives. perhaps the introduction of the clock in the 1970s and 1980s was justified because europe was divided into different time zones and this was then a contribution to the better functioning of the economy and to the unification of europe. today europe should pay more attention to the health of its people and start listening to the inner clock of its people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a demand that is not part of the carnival in germany, but must be seriously decided.
i have to say, madam president, when i hear the horror scenarios that are being played out here, i can only marvel. in the united states, there is a long-term study that shows that the change to daylight saving time reduces the accident rate, not increases it, and that people need sunlight. the sun shines for the same amount of time. mr liberadzki said that the sun does not rise in brussels until eight o'clock. at ten o'clock it is still dark in december when we make the change to daylight saving time. that means that the arguments must be tested and weighed. that is why i am in favour of mr belet's motion. why don't we discuss the full moon here? so i always hear, in my country, 25% of the people suffer from the full moon 12 times a year; they can't sleep. when i see where depression starts, where there's no sunlight, depression starts. we should take the opportunity to give people more sunlight with the current arrangements of one hour of summer time. that's why i'm not switching.
in writing. i am in favour of abolishing the time change. i also think that before we abolish summertime for good, we should examine the reasons for and against it in a study. that is why i am in favour of the resolution that has been adopted.
a writer. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it sounds like hollywood, but it's more serious: the police search a person for an allegedly defective taillight and find a large quantity of drugs that allegedly belong to that person. the arrested person is then allegedly unavailable to his lawyers. in the subsequent investigations, an alleged witness fails to recognize the alleged perpetrator due to an alleged lack of training of the police protocoller. stupid, but then the prosecution just makes him a witness himself, and so on and so forth in the script. interim goal achieved for the autocrats in grozny, the capital of a terrifying lawless space in the middle of the russian federation. after the devastation of two wars, this country is developing, rebuilding and at the same time finding itself. the model that is desired for this is clear: the protection of personal absolutist claims with money from moscow and its own militias and associated state structures. of course, human rights organizations like memorial and people like ojub titiyev are disturbed. it remains to be hoped that the people of chechnya and moscow will understand: freedom of the law has never brought stability. for where there is a need for life, it stands for nothing but stagnation.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in the last four years, more than 2,000 people have been sentenced to death in egypt, and at least 81 of them have already been executed. it is feared that the number of executions will continue to rise massively. in addition, the human rights situation in egypt is dramatically bad: government critics are threatened and arrested including lawyers, journalists, human rights defenders , people are arbitrarily arrested and disappeared. un experts report that prisoners are being systematically tortured. it is shameful how the eu is acting with restraint in the face of the continuing massive human rights violations in egypt. the eu-egypt partnership priorities agreement adopted in june 2017 does contain mutual commitments to human rights standards. but in the face of these massive human rights crimes and the deterioration of the situation in egypt, the eu must not hide behind these fine words but must really put decisive pressure on the egyptian government.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already done so. i think it is very important that this issue be discussed in the european parliament today. the restavek, the child slaves in haiti, they don't have a lobby. there are few ngos that care about their fate. i am therefore pleased that we are putting this at the heart of the debate today. haiti deserves support because of the earthquake and the extreme poverty that still exists in the country. but we as the eu also have opportunities and we must take advantage of them. we give budget support, that's good, that gives confidence in the government. but the government also has to justify this trust by focusing more on the education sector, that the spending that haiti is making is better focused there. this includes getting a registration of the children, and it includes the government making sure that regular school attendance can take place. i believe that these are the first steps and we must continue to support them as an eu.
the commission has already done so. child slavery is a terrible story. but we are blind to a very important part of the problem, and we are making it too easy for ourselves to attribute this to the fact that the country is so terribly poor. there are many poor countries in the world where there is no child slavery. we must also identify the real culprits, and the real culprits for this terrible child slavery, that is the ruling elite of this country, that is the political and economic leadership of this country, and we must grab them by the purse and remind them of their responsibility. if that doesn't help, we'll have to resort to coercive measures. we imposed travel restrictions on the russian leadership when russia broke international law in ukraine. why are we not imposing travel restrictions on the haitian leadership when they are so blatantly violating human rights or tolerating human rights violations? we must do more than simply lament poverty. we need concrete action, and it needs to be directed at the leadership of this country.
the next item is the debate on the enlarged bureau's request under rule 130b of the rules of procedure, tabled by rosa d'amato and dario tamburrano on behalf of the group of the european people's party, to the commission, on the trans adriatic pipeline in italy (o-000086/2017 2017/3031 (rsp)) (b8-0615/2017).
i thank you very much, mrs d'amato. first, i want to remind you that you should ask questions, and second, after 30 seconds, i'm going to interrupt the speaker without knocking. mr rebega, would you still like to answer?
before i give the commissioner the floor, i should like to take the opportunity to say that mr bullmann is accompanied by a member of the conference of presidents. i would like to say what i have already said to my group chairman: we have had this new instrument of the large questions for a year. unfortunately, this one landed on thursday afternoon with relatively little response. something has to happen on thursday afternoon. this is obviously an important issue. i do not think it is quite appropriate that the conference of presidents has decided that there is virtually nowhere to read what is going on. it's just o-000086/2017, and there's only one place where you learn that it's the trans adriatic pipeline. i think we could do a little more of that, what this thursday afternoon is about. spontaneously, mr bullmann? i was just...
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's a first, you getting the floor in this house spontaneously. that, too, could possibly be a school and help us to be a little more lively. thank you very much for this direct address. i'm here to listen, and i'll take your suggestion. i would like to thank the members who are here today, but also the members of the commission, the commissioner and the commission staff, because i think that the discussions are worthwhile.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission has followed with the utmost attention all the concerns expressed by the honourable members during this very interesting debate. as i said in my introductory remarks, the commission sees the trans-adriatic pipeline (tap) as an important project not only for italy but also for south-east europe and the european union as a whole, because it will bring significant energy security and diversification of gas supply sources. it also has the potential to stimulate investment, to create jobs and improve their quality and ultimately to reduce energy prices to the consumer. i would like to comment in reply to some of the reflections, particularly from ms d’amato, who raised many topics and i will try to address some of them. my first comment is related to respect for human rights in countries which supply energy to the european union. the southern gas corridor, beyond its energy dimension, also serves as a unique platform for engagement with azerbaijan, georgia and turkey. mutual interdependence in relation to the southern gas corridor project thus contributes to security and to a dialogue that aims to secure positive developments, in line with the core values of the european union, including human dignity, freedom of democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. and pursuing our economic interests will not compromise the defence of our values. in our experience, the most reliable and effective way to promote them in a sovereign partner country is through dialogue and constructive engagement. in this spirit, on 7 february 2017, the european union launched negotiations on a new agreement with azerbaijan that will replace the 1996 partnership and cooperation agreement. there was a comment about the possible effect on climate change and the impact vis-à-vis the paris agreement. i would say that the tap and the southern gas corridor will not, per se, increase gas-related greenhouse gas emissions because this is an alternative source of gas and it is not intended to serve demand growth. the objective is to diversify sources in order to increase energy security. in fact, it is very likely to reduce the carbon footprint of the units of gas arriving in the european union because the entire corridor will consist of brand new, state-of-the-art pipeline infrastructures, which are inevitably less leakage-prone than those built in the 1970s. many of you referred to the environmental impact the project may have. the environmental impact assessment for the tap started in 2012. it was improved through the environmental impact assessment decree issued by the italian minister for the environment in september 2014, with 65 conditions to be fulfilled during the pre-construction, construction and operational phases of the project. subsequently, in may 2015, the italian minister of the economy issued development consent for the tap. it is clear that there were legislation changes in the area of environmental impact assessment in italy, and the powers to approve some verification-of-compliance conditions were given back to central government. ms d’amato asked the commission some questions, which have been answered in a letter from commissioner vella, raising the issue of whether the decision to give to central government the power to approve this verification of compliance would violate three environmental directives. the answer from the commission was that the arrangements for the transposition of european union law at regional level, and the delegation of institutional responsibility for fulfilling requirements designated through acts of national or regional transposition, are the responsibility of member states; and it was concluded that, in the specific case raised by the honourable member, no infringement of european law could be identified. in the commission’s view, there has been a commitment from the tap project promoters to avoid any environmental or negative social impact. some 20 landfall points along the apulian coastline were studied, from brindisi to tronto, in order to identify the one, at san foca, with the least environmental impact. a state of the art micro-tunnel was used for the landing point, passing more than 10 metres below the beach. so there will be no impact on the shoreline, and this technology will avoid interference with protected sea and land habitats and, at the same time, will render the pipeline invisible. also, the width of the pipeline has been reduced. care has been taken in respect of sustainable water management: the pipeline has been buried 1.5 metres below agriculture land to ensure that farmers can continue using their land, and olive trees will be relocated. they will be stored temporarily until they can be replanted. we also understand that the tap project promoters are implementing social and environmental investment projects in communities along the route. these projects are being implemented to promote sustainable development, and in full consultation and cooperation with communities along the pipeline route. in italy, the focus has been on livelihoods, tourism, agriculture and fisheries, and community services and infrastructure. project funding has been raised from small-scale grants, local community initiatives and regional development partnerships. there were some comments on whether the pipelines had to be assessed according to the seveso directives. the so-called seveso iii directive on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances does not apply to the transport of dangerous substances in pipelines, as this would typically be regulated by other relevant legislation. there was another question on whether there would be russian gas in this pipeline. i can tell you, honourable members, that there will not be russian gas in the tap when it comes into operation in 2020 and opens up the southern gas corridor. with an initial capacity of 10 billion cubic metres, it will be transporting gas only from the shah deniz gas field in azerbaijan, and no other gas can be transported as part of this initial capacity as that would be in violation of the exemption decision that tap received from the national energy regulatory authorities. if the capacity is doubled, there will be provision for additional use of capacity in a non-discriminatory manner. finally, the commission was asked whether it envisaged carrying out an impact assessment of the project’s economic and social consequences. the commission does not envisage carrying out such an assessment for a specific projects. such assessments are the responsibility of project promoters, and the promoters of the tap carried out very extensive assessments of environmental social impacts for all the countries it crosses – greece, albania and italy. the complete dossiers on these environmental and social impact assessment are publicly available on the tap website. the commission understands that very high-quality environmental and social impact assessments were also requested by the international financial institutions approached by the tap project promoters for the project financing. these assessments were recently positively approved by the european investment bank due-diligence team when the loan application from the promoters of the tap project was proposed to the eib board of directors, and agreed on 6 february. but the usefulness of the tap has been scrutinised by the commission. the commission, together with other members of the regional groups established under the ten-e regulation in the context of the projects of common interest (pci) process, assessed the tap contribution to energy policy objectives, such as security of supply, market integration, promotion of competition and sustainability. the assessment was done on the basis of a cost-benefit analysis carried out on tap’s behalf and the main results are available on the tap website. in this context, the tap was positively assessed as contributing to energy policy, and it was therefore included in the list of projects of common interest (pci list) initially in 2013, and subsequently in 2015 and 2017.
the debate is closed.
before i close, i want to wish you a safe journey home. and to all those on the german side heading home, we have a special day in fasching. we call it "old-fiber fasching", and it's common for men to have their ties cut off. so the gentlemen should take off their ties, and the ladies should be told: if you want to cut a tie, do it today, but please do it on the german side! have a good trip home, have a nice weekend. (the sitting was closed at 3.49 p.m.)
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. i can almost agree with what you said at the beginning of the debate. the problem for me is that when we assess the situation, that every escalation in a war that has been going on for seven years now, new suffering is added to the lives of people who are threatened every day, that we have to mourn over 300,000 deaths in these seven years - men, women, children - that millions of people have left syria, millions of people are fleeing inside syria, and 13 million people are waiting for our help. when we know that 400,000 people are trapped in eastern ghouta, cut off from all medical and humanitarian care, it begs the question: what can we really do? i have the impression that, although i follow the discussion in this way - and i do not want to imply anything to anyone, to get too close to anyone - but do we not meanwhile define, or is there not a danger that now everyone who is active, who lives only in syria, is considered a terrorist by one side, by the other side? how are we going to break this cycle? everyone is a terrorist in the end, always from the point of view of others. and the result is that the war is escalated, that new occasions are found, that bombs are dropped again, that missiles are dropped and that finally poison gas is used without anyone being punished. this isn't the first time you've used poison gas. what were the consequences of the previous use of poison gas? the european union has done everything it could to prevent all forms of arms exports, to make a clear statement against them. have they led us to take a clear stance towards some of the countries that are really actively playing this game there and it's a bad game, it's not just a dirty game, it's a really deadly game that we take clear positions? i am referring to russia, but i am also referring to turkey, to other countries, to iran, and to a whole series of other countries. we are talking about east gutha. it is right and necessary, and we must see to it that it ends immediately. we talked about afrin last time. now we pretend that these are two completely different things, as if they don't happen in the same country. but there are people in this country, and i don't care where they belong, what ethnicity they are. it's about us helping, about us making sure that people can live. and the last point i want to make is this: if we are so vocal here in favor of an immediate end to all forms of military violence against people in syria, then, damn it, i don't understand why we have a problem at all within the european union to talk about syrian refugees in our union. then i demand that we do everything we can to help, especially the wounded, the traumatized people, and really do something for them. that would be my appeal to all of us.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, one would almost assume that there’s an election going on somewhere. thank you very much, mr president. i can be very brief on the institutional issues because the commission concurs fully with how you reflected the discussion at the summit. i want to comment on a few points. spitzenkandidaten are apparently now part of the italian language as well as of the english language. the other german word that i know is in both the italian and the english languages is angst, but probably there’s no relation between the two. what do i have to say about this? as far as the commission is concerned, this is something that was done in 2014 and therefore is established. we at the commission have to add that the treaty is leads the way here, so the commission is, if you could put it that way, a child of parliament and the european council. so of course we want to strengthen our position in parliament and our democratic legitimacy, as you’ve explained, mr president, but we also have to face the reality that the european council has a say as well. what we said in our communication is that it does not follow that the person who heads the political group that ends up with the most seats in the european parliament automatically becomes a commission president. a majority in the european parliament might be a factor. somebody else might be chosen if they secured a majority in the european parliament and could also be carried by the european council. that is how way we have put it in our communication. the leaders did not decide, for now, on the size of the next commission, although the 2013 decision means that they will have to come back to this issue before the next commission is put in place, and the issue of a transnational constituency has also been left open. i know that the majority in parliament is not in favour, but the matter was discussed and we will surely come back to it ahead of the 2024 elections; and i must point out that the leaders do not have much of an appetite at present for the idea of a double-hatted president of the commission and the european council. finally, i just want to welcome the renewed interest which the leaders have expressed in different forms of outreach and engagement with our citizens. we are really looking forward to sharing our experience with member states, especially in view of the new impetus that member states have given to this. we’ve run, i think, 478 citizens’ dialogues so far and before the end of our term we want to do 500 more. the second topic on the agenda was our future budget. discussion among the leaders was less abrasive than some might have expected, and that should be welcomed: they all understand that at the end of the day we will need a budget. many member states expressed a willingness to increase the level of their contributions. some did not. at the same time the commission made it clear that savings on redeployments would be needed for some parts of the budget if new priorities were going to be properly funded. when we, as politicians, formulate new priorities, we also have to face the fact that other issues will then have to be deprioritised, and that has financial consequences. so this is going to be a major task. we will make our formal proposals for the future budget by the beginning of may at the latest. at last week’s meeting, we stressed the need to decide on the final deal and yes, in some cases, agreed trade-offs between different deserving causes before the next european elections. but i also note that opinions diverge on that point and that many people would like to have the decision after the european elections. i see mr verhofstadt, who has also, if i’m correct, expressed his view in favour of having the decision after the elections. why do we want to take the decision before the elections? because the current mff was decided upon only at the very end of 2013, which meant that the programmes putting it into effect could not be brought into being until 2014, so the first year was actually lost when it came to actually getting money out into the real world, which we need urgently to do, to get money invested in our society in order to make sure that convergence starts happening again in europe. one of the fundamental threats to the future of the european union is divergence within and between member states, and we need to put taxpayers’ money to good use to restart the engine of convergence in our union. of course the benefits of eu membership go far beyond the budget. some of these benefits can be quantified, others not. i think that we should be talking more in terms of the eu dividend, which is not just a balance sheet, but much more than that. perhaps if we can talk more in terms of eu dividends we can also come to an agreement on how the eu budget should be structured in the future. not everybody can recognise that this is in everybody’s interest. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i regret that donald tusk is not with us today, because i have had a new experience when discussing the informal council experience. i am quite fine with the outcome of the meeting on friday. that is why i regret that he is not present with us, because, first of all, in the preparations for 2019, the epp group is very thankful that we can agree on the composition and that we have legal certainty for 2019, which is important. secondly, as regards the spitzenkandidat, the role is clear. the council is insisting on its role, which is legally defined in the lisbon treaty, and that is fine. however, i also see that the same personalities who stressed, in the informal meeting on friday, the role of the council are part of the party meetings, and there they are supporting the process to nominate candidates in the party format. my party will do this in helsinki in november. that is agreed upon and that is what we will do. frans timmermans explained once again what parliamentary democracy means. it is not the biggest group which will have the chance, but only the candidate who can organise a majority will have the chance to be elected as commission president. however, one thing is again crystal clear: nobody will be elected from this parliament and from the next parliament who was not, before the elections, put forward as a candidate from a democratic party. that is a principle. it is fixed and it has now been approved. the innovation that is ahead of us is that we need not only candidates, but we also really need attractive programmes from the different political parties to show people an alternative and to make a really european campaign. on mff, things are on the right path. it was a constructive discussion. first of all, we have to make the eu more effective and spend money in a more effective way. then there are the new tasks on the table, and we will need fresh new money. i sometimes hear the argument that the eu will be smaller. dear friends, when i look at the tasks on the table – the demands for the african fund, for the defence fund and for strengthening frontex – i do not see how europe will be smaller in the next mff. there are lot of tasks on the table which have to be financed. the last point i want to make in my intervention today is about the most important discussion this week on brexit, because tomorrow theresa may will make a speech on this subject. when i look to the outcome and the developments in the last weeks in the british debate, the key question is still what the new relationship between the european union and great britain will look like. one principle is clear for us: a country outside the eu cannot have the same standards and the same rights as a country inside the european union. it is also clear for us that an endless transition period is not acceptable to us. that is why we welcome today’s presentation of a possible leave treaty. one point is still open, and that is the question of what these long-term relationships will look like. we need clarity on this. we hope that, when we listen tomorrow to theresa may, we will have more clarity, for example on the future relationship with the city of london and how the open skies will look in the future. there are many questions on the table and we need a clear idea. i have to pick up one message we received from the uk foreign secretary, boris johnson. when i look at what he said, especially on the question of the border between northern ireland and ireland, i must say that a politician should try to solve problems and not create problems. don’t play with the achievements of the past; don’t play with the peace process; don’t play with the future of the young generation in northern ireland. the epp will be on the side of the irish people: we will not accept a hard border, and will not risk the peace process. that is what we want to achieve. europe is ready. we hope that london is also already.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, thank you for informing us about what mr tusk told you regarding the conclusions. frans timmermans on behalf of the commission, thank you for drawing the conclusions, a lot of which we share, not all of them but a lot. but the main question today is: where is the european council? i haven’t met the european council on the floors of this chamber. i have not seen them here. thanks to our bulgarian colleagues, there is not even an empty chair and there is not even an elephant in the room. there’s just nothing. i do not regret that, my dear colleague manfred weber – i find it a scandal – because this is about the future of europe, and where is the president of the european council? he will learn to take this house seriously, and he and his colleagues will learn to take this chamber of european parliamentarians seriously because it’s about our common future, and we will not give in on these kinds of procedures. bei der zukunft europas geht es um geld – natürlich auch. deswegen ist es völlig unverständlich, warum so wenig dabei herauskommt. diese informellen gipfel sind doch eingeführt worden, damit es leichter geht, damit sie vertrauensvoller sprechen. aber was ist denn das ergebnis? wie sollen denn die formalen gipfel aussehen, wenn die informellen schon so wenig zutage fördern? natürlich sind wir einverstanden, neue aufgaben zu übernehmen. natürlich wissen wir, dass europa sich um eine anständige flüchtlingspolitik kümmern muss, dass wir dafür sorgen müssen, dass es in den migrationsfragen vernünftig zugeht. und dass wir uns um sicherheit kümmern, alte fragen der sicherheit – neue fragen der sicherheit. das ist unsere klare position. aber wie soll das ohne zusätzliche finanzmittel gehen? wo ist die zusage der damen und herren im europäischen rat, uns davon mehr zuzugestehen? und insbesondere: wo ist die frage der eigenmittel? ich danke ihnen, herr präsident, dass sie das erneut erwähnt haben, so haben wir es besprochen. aber warum – es liegt doch in den händen der herrschaften im europäischen rat – nicht endlich eine finanztransaktionssteuer, die in das budget europas einzahlt? warum nicht endlich eine steuer auf die multinationalen, die im internethandel ihre geschäfte machen, ohne anständige steuern abzuführen? es ist hohe zeit dafür, und exakt das hat zu passieren, exakt das hat umgesetzt zu werden. wir warten darauf. der europäische rat sagt, dass er nicht einverstanden ist oder nicht garantieren kann, dass die spitzenkandidaten am ende des tages auch vorgeschlagen werden oder die wahl aus dem kreis der spitzenkandidaten erfolgt. we have to say to mister tusk and the colleagues: we could not care less. warum? we could not care less, weil die frage, ob die europäischen parteien spitzenkandidatinnen und -kandidaten aufstellen, nicht eigentum des europäischen rates ist, sondern der europäischen zivilgesellschaft, und die parteien und die bürgerinnen und bürger werden eine entscheidung dazu fällen, und nicht die herrschaften und die damen im europäischen rat, so wird es nicht sein! deswegen erkläre ich ganz eindeutig: dieses haus hat sich verpflichtet, niemanden zu wählen, der sich diesem demokratischen wettbewerb um programme und um personen nicht gestellt hat. wir in der sozialdemokratischen fraktion werden das schon gar nicht tun, weil wir die vorreiter dieses prozesses waren. wir werden niemanden wählen, der sich dem demokratischen wettbewerb entzieht. wir werden keine hinterzimmerveranstaltungen mehr gutheißen. wir wollen demokratie für die europäischen bürgerinnen und bürger.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, how we set up our long—term budget obviously reflects how we want to deal with the european union overall, and there i do see some cause for concern. some member states say they just want to have enough money for their national pet projects, they want money for their farmers, they want internal security and external security, a lot of things, but they also want to pay less money, and that simply cannot work because a strong and active european union needs resources. that does not mean that we can just spend it how we want. we have to be careful with where we invest taxpayers’ money, and i can think of quite a few cases where we can save on some of them, from big pie—in—the—sky projects like iter to the way we choose to travel ourselves, dear colleagues. there are also plenty of examples of how eu money is being misspent in the member states, and there we need more control and more guidance before the damage is done. eu money always needs to be spent well and in the interests of the people living in europe, and it must never, ever contribute to corruption. the fight between member states about who should pay what shows that we need to put the eu’s budget on a more independent footing. own resources should be introduced now and we think they should be done in a way that enables us to actually tax and take the money from what is destroying our very own habitat. the budget will always reflect what we value most. it is a tool to finance the vision that we have for this place where we all live, for the future, and we must put the money where we think the eu should be going. we should not forget either that we have actually agreed some important international commitments. i am thinking of the paris agreement and climate protection, sustainable development goals, to name just a few. but money alone does not bring happiness. what we also need in the union is a strengthened european debate and to bring decision-making closer to eu citizens, and that is where the whole discussion about the leading candidates comes in. sure, that concept does not solve all the problems that we have, but it was – and it is – a vital step forward for a more accountable commission and, more generally, a more accountable european union. if member states were to give up that progress because they were afraid that they themselves might not win or because they prefer to have some backroom deals, then this really is a slap in the face of european democracy, and whoever goes down that path should not be surprised if europe herself gets up at some point and slaps back.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. let me make a few remarks. if i have just heard the last thing about a country being bullied, i believe that no country is bullied when it is pointed out that the order of the european union, in particular the rule of law, is being preserved. these are principles that we should not be arguing about, and this is not to be understood as putting pressure on. but i would like to say something about the european council and i would like to deal with one subject only. this is the question, one year before the european elections, of how we can bring our political project even more clearly to the electorate. there was a crucial point in the lisbon treaty, which we exercised last time in the election of the president of the commission, but which has not yet been fully and equally brought into the political debate by the political parties: that is the question of the lead candidate. we want the future to be as it is in the treaty and we will not allow the european council to look after its own interests in the background. we want to see the head of the european administration elected in future by the electors through the european parliament, as the treaty provides, and not a trifle between heads of government. if we do not bring this europe closer to the citizens in the key positions, then this europe will not stand a chance in the long run. the european council's statement should make it clear that the european parliament will be fighting for this right over the next 15 months. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. you always speak so eloquently for the top candidate. now, i was on the campaign trail too: can you explain to me why i didn't see a single poster of your leading candidate juncker throughout germany during the 2014 election campaign?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i want to give you two answers to that. first of all, i said: it has been practiced; it has to be much better. the epp has now changed its constitution and we will be electing a top candidate in november, so it will not be like last time. i assume that other parties do the same. as for the second question, it was probably the case that at that time you were only looking at afd posters - which you have since left - and therefore did not look at democratic candidates.
mr president, let me reflect on the withdrawal agreement which was published yesterday. for me this is a very clear sign that brexit is a declaration of war on european industry, not only on british industry. are you aware of the fact that, economically, brexit is equivalent to 19 countries leaving the european union at the same time? there are very complex logistical supply chains in danger – customer relationships, supplier relationships – and, in the end, britain will become the largest british customer. i wonder why we are continuing to try to punish britain for their decision. instead the commission should focus on placing the interests of the european union as priority number one. those interests are very similar to britain’s interests. any deal which is good for british industry is also a very good deal for european industry, and that is why i believe we should change the commission’s priorities. let’s make sure that british industry has access to the european common market as before and, likewise, let’s make sure that common market industries have the same access to british industry.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, there were many times in history in which poland was the forerunner for the rule of law in europe. it was the first country in our continent with a modern constitution that established an independent judiciary. poland also has a long and proud tradition of civil movements for freedom and democracy, from the resistance against the german occupation to the solidarność movement. unfortunately, the polish government does not seem to remember the proud traditions of poland and it certainly does not seem to care about the future of the country. it is taking poland away from the path of democracy and civil rights. it sees opposition and debate not as a sign of a living society, but as a threat. but poland is much more than the polish government, and we as the european parliament, as the european union, need to support the judges who fight against their dismissal. we need to fight for the people protesting against the destruction of the last primary forest in europe and we need to support the women fighting for their rights over their own bodies. supporting them means keeping up the dialogue, supporting cross-border initiatives and taking a strict and strong line with the government when it comes to rights and rules, for when their own government does not want to live up to the most basic standards what do people do? they turn to europe. that is why we support the commission’s proposal to trigger article 7, and if the council does not do its job on poland asap then it should expect a full investigation into the polish case by parliament, as we promised last november. and let us remember that the people of europe expect us to stand up for the standards and rights that define us as europeans. this is a great responsibility that we bear in relation not just to poland, but to all citizens of the european union. they have the right to be governed well, to an independent judiciary, and to see their rights well guarded, and that is something which we need to maintain.
i would like to thank mr korwin-mikke. i'm calling you to order. the comparison you made was unparliamentary.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, we have made clear why we believe article 7(1) was warranted. we are also in a dialogue with the polish government to try and resolve the issue. the commission is very much committed to that. and the interesting thing is that, from the beginning of this process, i was warned: ‘don’t do it, you’ll bring about polexit’; ‘don’t do it, the polish people will no longer support the union’. well, as a matter of fact, support for the eu in poland has gone up, not down. it has gone up. so, do the polish people understand that mr farage, who speaks out in support of their government, is someone who wants to break up the european union? do the polish people understand which country will be the biggest victim of a broken-up european union, given its geographic position? poland. do the polish people understand that mr farage’s best friend is vladimir putin? (applause)do the polish people know that? (heckling from nigel farage)when someone says something you do not like, you just try to prevent them saying it, don’t you mr farage? you admire vladimir vladimirovich … (more heckling from nigel farage) i’m shaking in my boots, because i’m next to you, mr farage, but what i want to say is this: the european union cannot survive without poland in its midst, and poland has a strategic interest in being a member of the european union. polish people will not be fooled by anyone. they know this. they know this and, at some point – to quote a young american – ‘there’s only so much bs people will take’. let me be very clear on this. i respect mr farage’s idea of leaving the european union. i respect that, but i also want those whom he now addresses as friends to understand what his agenda is. i am quite sure it should not be poland’s agenda. i would urge the polish government to see where their true friends are, and they are not among those who want to break up the european union. (applause)
in accordance with rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure, three motions for resolutions have been tabled. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 1 march 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu's priorities for the united nations human rights council in 2018 (2018/2603 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, it is positive that the eu delegation in geneva will give major priority to defending the universality of human rights against efforts from several countries to undermine this concept. even from some eu member states, we hear voices who prefer to hold back criticism on human rights violations elsewhere, among other reasons, in an attempt to distract from their own attacks on fundamental rights. more than ever, it is crucial that the eu supports the un human rights council financially and politically to ensure that it can continue to work independently. the council conclusions on the eu priorities in the un human rights fora are generally supportable. however, i deeply regret that the council did not include a reference to the un binding treaty on business and human rights, the single most important normative process currently going on. i deplore that the eu has not been constructive in the process and hope that the eu will listen to the requests by the european parliament and give its full and unconditional support to the un binding treaty process.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their comments. from this debate i think we can conclude that we all share a common interest in the promotion and protection of human rights in the multilateral forums. of course there is room for improvement and room to further improve their effectiveness in terms of organisation as well, but is equally essential not to underestimate their importance. multilateral engagement remains a vital component of an effective and strong eu policy in the field of human rights and beyond. since the adoption of the universal declaration of human rights 70 years ago, the international human rights system has continued to show great resilience and it remains the single most effective framework through which we can address concerns and aspire to build a better world in the future for all of us, which should be our duty and our calling. so once again, mr president, i want to signal our appreciation of parliament in its role in keeping this important issue on the international agenda.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report of ms pilar ayuso, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the definition, presentation and labelling of spirit drinks, the use of the names of spirit drinks in the presentation and labelling of other foodstuffs and the protection of geographical indications for spirit drinks (com (((2016) 0750 - c8-0496/2016 - 2016/0392 (((cod)) (a8-0021/2018)).
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs pilar ayuso, for her report, which is a very technical one. i myself would like to raise two points which are more political in nature but which are particularly important to me, namely: ethyl alcohol from beer and the possible exclusion of 'produced without added sugar'. ethyl alcohol from beer is no different from ethyl alcohol from wine. but still, the beer alcohol is not allowed to be used for the production of spirits. this goes back to a purely political decision in 1958 that alcohol may only be produced from products of agricultural origin. beer was not considered as such a product 60 years ago, without any technical or even scientific background. i think that has to stop, because de facto beer is made naturally from products of agricultural origin. we must put an end to this disparity of treatment. it cannot be that the valuable beer alcohol which is more expensive to produce than wine alcohol and therefore will not be a major competitor for wine alcohol can only be used for cosmetics or fuel. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a quality mark if you use high-quality fruit, you do not need added sugar a valuable information for the consumer, and it does not contradict the health claims regulation. i refer to article 3b and in particular article 4, which allows national solutions where appropriate. i would also ask the commission to look into this.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. spirits - as has been said here - are an important export product of the european union. we make about 10 billion euros a year from this, so it's a very, very important product. the commissioner has already mentioned the main criticism, the main point of contention, which will probably remain between parliament and the commission. it is the annex which lists 47 categories of spirit drinks. the commission intends to amend this point by means of a delegated act. we in parliament have a very different view. we say that this is a key part of the regulation and should therefore be left to parliament's legislation. i would also like to say a few words about the variety of spirits we have in the eu. so vodka is sometimes spelled with a w, sometimes with a v, and the addition of milk or cream in the advocat or egg liqueur is also regulated differently. we have also dealt with that. thank you very much to mrs. ayuso. i wish us all a lot of joy in diversity.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. european spirits have a world-class reputation and are in demand accordingly. with an export volume of eur 10 billion, they account for the largest share of european agri-food exports. but not only that: the european spirits sector is traditionally closely linked to agriculture and, alongside a few large producers, is still predominantly small and medium-sized. in my own member state, germany, there are currently some 16 000 small-scale distilleries. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. i would like to thank the rapporteur and her colleagues for this. i think we have put forward some good proposals on how the spirits regulation can be made future-proof. the geographical indication system will be simplified for the many small and medium-sized distilleries, and from the consumer's point of view we will create more transparency, for example by establishing clear rules on the sugar used in the production of sugar.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. in fact, this report has missed its point, because when i read this report, it is a report on migration, it is a report on integration. but this is about the fundamental rights of eu citizens. today, eu citizens are fighting to preserve their identity - as is a fundamental right - and to preserve their culture and language. they're fighting for their right to freedom of speech and freedom of information. but the fact that thousands of europeans are being persecuted for their opinions, that in germany alone 1 200 people are in prison for having expressed the wrong opinion, that is not something that this report allows to be discussed. i can only ask you to pay more attention to reality, because our task is to preserve and protect the peoples of europe, and not primarily to bring foreigners into europe who do not belong here.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not in the 24 years of its existence, the icty has made an important contribution to the fight against impunity for the most serious crimes. the european union is also committed to the protection of human rights and the rule of law, and to the protection of the rights of the individual. the mandate of the international criminal tribunal for yugoslavia extended to the whole of yugoslavia, but the jurisdiction was unevenly distributed in the end, also because the real policies of the states of the international community in the region pursued different interests. lesson number one: we need a further emancipation of the right from power. the question arises at the same time: how can evidence be secured without being present on the spot? lesson number two: if we can politically exploit the experience of the united nations war crimes commission in world war ii and link it to today's modern technologies, the most serious crimes could be documented in a timely manner and in stock. finally, it is also about individual justice, which means that we as the eu should be able to strengthen the capacity of our partner countries in need to have their own courts for such serious crimes.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not commissioner katainen, i have to be quite frank with you. you are right that the commission is going further than we are here in parliament, further than the member states, in terms of the transparency of meetings. the transparency of the meetings of the top officials and also of you as commissioner, that is a real step forward in terms of lobbying transparency. the goal of lobbying transparency is never to ban contacts between friends. that's not the point. but the real problem we are talking about here is how such a change of direction from mr barroso to goldman sachs was possible in the first place. the commission has not yet taken a decision on the amendment of the rules on the transfer of pages. you just screwed up the rules a little bit. what is still missing is an independent ethics committee to decide on these issues, not appointed by the commission but made up of independent personalities. i would ask you to draw the conclusion from this story and to make these rules democratically acceptable.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the removal of several third countries from the eu list of non-cooperative countries and territories for tax purposes (2018/2564 ((rsp)).
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am increasingly suspicious that parliament is being led by the nose here. it was only in december that parliament's report criticised the machinations of a windy panamanian law firm which helps its clients to embezzle hundreds of billions of euros a year. panama will also be blacklisted as a tax haven. but already in january the council removed panama and seven other countries from that list in a completely non-transparent procedure, because some letter had allegedly been received somewhere. you are stating in hindsight that you consider tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering to be a crime of chivalry. they explain that those who, for their own selfish gain, are taking hundreds of billions of euros from society can continue to do so without consequence. but we're talking about money that's not being invested in public infrastructure, not being invested in the future of education, not being invested in the future of health care, not being invested in roads, schools and hospitals. you're making the wrong policy here. we will continue to work for tax justice and to fight tax evasion, tax evasion and money laundering.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i have to say that the lack of transparency in this process is the real problem. in principle, europe has been very successful in this respect. we have managed in a short time to get a number of tax havens to commit to changing their tax policies. we can be proud of that. but it is not possible to make it opaque which countries are on the list and why they are on the list. the documents for the screening - not only, as you said, commissioner, the letters of undertaking, but also the screening itself - are not transparent. we have now published a whole series of protocols from the code of conduct group. and there we learn that, for example, brazil and georgia, although they operate special economic zones that were considered harmful, they ultimately did not end up on the grey list or the black list. i would therefore like to know from the council why these two countries have not been included. and second, when are you going to release all the documents, including the monitoring?
i have to say, madam president, it is astonishing that we have an obligation on the part of all the member states to their citizens to be accountable for their actions at home. the european parliament, as the house of commons for the union of all these countries, wants nothing more and nothing less than to check here, in addition to the national parliaments, whether the action of the sum of the member states is as correct as it is. it is a little bit annoying when we are informed by the media that it has led to the removal of individual countries from the list of tax havens by means of letters. i think you have a responsibility towards the citizens of your country, towards the whole of european citizenship, to explain exactly what criteria are used to put a country on such a list and what criteria are used to remove it from it, and then to explain in each individual case what efforts a country has promised to make to get it off the list again. if you do not do this, you will be failing in your duty to the citizens of europe, to the taxpayers of europe and to the european parliament as a chamber of citizens.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr norbert erdős, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the prospects and challenges for the eu beekeeping sector (2017/2115 (ini) (a8-0014/2018)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. there is an old saying in germany: if the bees die, then the people die too. this is the drama of the current developments. i am pleased that we are focusing today on the prospects and challenges for the eu beekeeping sector. without bees, there would be no honey; fruits and vegetables would become luxury goods. the animals pollinate about 80% of our crops and wildlife. if we fail to maintain the bee population and the insects die out, the consequences for humans will be fatal, and the developments are dramatic. we must act and we must not turn a blind eye any longer. we need to look at the myriad of possible causes, and we need to be honest: neonicotinoid-based pesticides are a big problem for our bees and all insects. i call for measures to prohibit the production, sale and use of all neonicotinoid-based pesticides in the union without exception and as a matter of priority to protect the bee population. it is a radical step and we can only take it in close dialogue with the farmers. it's not about pointing the finger at someone who's guilty. no, it's about preserving and protecting bees as the foundation of our environment. it's about leaving our children an environment where it buzzes and blooms. we share the responsibility for this today.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are all aware of the great importance of bee colonies for the cultural landscape and the contribution they make to the conservation of biological diversity. with its pollination capacity, the honeybee is an important link in many communities. 84% of agricultural yields are only possible through insect pollination. our report addresses difficult issues but also suggests solutions. i 'd like to call it a catchphrase: research to control varroa mites is important. lithium chloride is not ready for the market yet. the training of our young farmers is just as important. the dialogue with farmers is an elementary basis for me. the mowing time and ultimately also the evening crop protection and a bee app are good guidelines here. reducing the use of contaminated wax from china, which is a threat to bee health; using plant protection products on the basis of efsa scientific evidence. and finally, i would like to say that in the omnibus procedure we have indeed taken into account bee plants and become aware of our responsibility.
i have a lot of messages. that is why i have decided to take only one per group. i would like to ask you to complain not to me but to your colleagues who have not kept their speaking time, which has already caused us to be very late. spontaneous speech
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 1 march 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 163).
that concludes this item.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i also thank the rapporteur for a really excellent report on banking union, which i think is being misread in this house in part - at least as far as edis is concerned. it is a very different language from previous reports on the banking union. it is not calling for edis, commissioner, as you have just said incorrectly, but it is making it quite clear that the banking union is fulfilling important tasks in its existing two pillars, but at the same time we do have mechanisms in the field of deposit guarantee which are already very reasonably designed, in the sense that we have the deposit guarantee directive which allows national deposit guarantee schemes to lend to other distressed deposit guarantee schemes in crises, but does not oblige them to do so. with this design, the banking union is complete. it is completely wrong to insist that we must complete it. it is quite dangerous to oblige national deposit guarantee schemes to accept a drain of resources in crisis situations, because this could lead to a bank run in the deposit guarantee schemes that are helping, could lead to a loss of confidence that would cause savers to withdraw their deposits. the edis deposit guarantee system could therefore create additional risks and it is therefore a wrong step to go further in this direction.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. after years of financial market reform, we have an absurd situation. some large banks are still operating with debt ratios of just 4% of their balance sheet total,while on the other hand - i have seen this several times in my constituency - smaller institutions, which are doing well with debt ratios of 8-10%, are being overwhelmed by reporting requirements from the central bank, national and european supervisors, national and european supervisors, the european banking authority and also national statistical authorities. these reporting requirements are completely disproportionate to the objective of financial stability. it is therefore right that we should call for a uniform european reporting system to ensure that even smaller financial market players can survive after the financial market reforms. i ask you, commissioner, to help us in the current legislation to set up such a comprehensive european single reporting system, so that bureaucratic burdens are reduced and at the same time we achieve the objectives of financial market stability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are talking today about the banking union. in 2012, the german government called for ecb banking supervision, which was considered a clever move at the time. today, we have to say that the federal government has failed on all fronts. the banking union is increasingly becoming a transfer union. the report calls for a final guarantee of bank resolution by the tax authorities. he brazenly claims that this avoids recourse to state funds. ladies and gentlemen, you have to explain to me how to secure something fiscally without burdening the tax office. the report also calls for the esm to be transformed into a european monetary fund which will provide this fiscal safeguard. i would ask you to accept my amendment and reject it. it is time to take a stand against bank bailouts at taxpayer expense, against european deposit insurance and against the expansion of the banking union to a transfer union.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european banking union has substantially strengthened the institutional and regulatory framework since the economic crisis. the equity ratios and liquidity ratios of banks in the euro area have clearly improved. but in some member states the proportion of non-performing loans is far too high. the risks within certain national banking systems are not adequately addressed. the member states and the banks themselves have the primary responsibility for the reduction of non-performing loans. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market if it is granted in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and fair competition. the principle of proportionality must be maintained. however, facilitation is necessary for banks with simple business models. the diversity of our european banks remains a solid foundation for the competitiveness of our financial systems on a global scale.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the foreign affairs committee for its own-initiative report on combating the financing of terrorism. the report is an important impetus for parliament to finally move forward with the regulation on the import of cultural goods. last week, the results of interpol and the world customs organization's operations athena and pandora 2 were announced, in which 41,000 illicitly traded works of art were seized, including many antiques. the trade in art and cultural goods is now as widespread as the drug or arms trade; the un identified the link to terrorist financing as early as 2015. we cannot allow the absence of customs regulations to allow this kind of business model to work and finance attacks in europe and elsewhere. i call on parliament and all the member states to work towards better customs controls, better training of customs officials and effective international cooperation. because only together can we fight illegal trade in cultural goods and prevent attacks... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have asked to speak because i want to reiterate the urgency of the matter which you referred to in your statement yesterday, namely the murder of the slovak journalist. we have heard today in the european media new facts that after the case in malta and after the case in slovakia, now, unfortunately, two journalists have been murdered in their work for freedom of expression. i would like to ask, because of the urgency, because this week is not a cop meeting, that we as a parliament express the importance we attach to an independent inquiry into the slovak case, that the facts are put on the table to achieve independence. secondly, after the public media have also reported today that there has been a possible misuse of eu funds, i would ask that we instruct our cont committee to send its own fact-finding mission to slovakia. the european parliament must be the driving force to shed light on the events in slovakia and protect independent journalists. i ask that we do this as a parliament. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i believe that this parliament - and i can say this on behalf of my group - will be second to none in defending the rule of law and in investigating all criminal incidents - bad incidents such as the killing of journalists - without reservation, without reservation and to the bottom of the matter. we are therefore in favour of having a debate on this subject here in due course, if the facts allow it. i think that is also the consensus among the forces of the house. i would just like to remind you that this mission, proposed by mr weber, is on the agenda of the taxe iii committee, so it is in any case foreseen for the new committee of inquiry which we are also going to set in motion today. i ask the president to behave with those responsible in taxe iii so that no duplication of work is necessary. i would remind mr weber that we are investigating everything without reservation. this applies to all the countries of the european union, regardless of which head of government may be a member of the epp. that will not prevent us from investigating in a clear and radical way everything that needs to be investigated. this also applies to recent allegations of corruption that have been made in this context.
mr president, i would like to stress that the murder of journalists should never become a question of party politics. it is too serious a matter. (applause)this parliament took tough action when this happened in malta and we should do the utmost to take similar action when it happens in the slovak republic. therefore i support the suggestion by mr weber to send an ad hoc mission to slovakia, and to do so under the remit of the conference of presidents, because we cannot wait another few weeks until a secretariat has been created for the new committee: we have to act now. journalists have the right to act freely in investigating corruption and taxation issues, and this parliament should waste no time in safeguarding that right. (applause)
i ask you mr president to now come to the agenda. (applause)because on the issue we are discussing it fits very well to listen to mr muižnieks.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am not in a position to judge mr selmayr's personal or professional qualifications. mr oettinger has just explained in detail the qualifications he possesses and how the rules were respected in the appointment of the new secretary-general. why are we not satisfied with this situation? we live in a time of brexit, a time when populists of all stripes are working around the clock to challenge the european project. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. no, they are the water on the mills of the critics of europe and promote incomprehension and rejection in the population. my question to you, commissioner, is how do you intend to restore that lost trust? the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. this is not just the commission. all eu institutions, including the parliament and the council, are to apply this procedure in future. this is our proposal to restore trust. i assume that you, mr oettinger, have the same objectives and i hope to work well with you. (the speaker rejects a question on the 'blue card' procedure by olaf stuger.)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i didn't realize how many of you and us are eager to delve into the depths of the statute. i'm looking forward to it. i would like to invite us to contribute to the substantiation of the debate. the committee on budgetary control will ask questions, the speakers will decide today in a week, and then we will all ask the questions that are bothering us. the plenary session is normally preceded by the committee. it might have been a good thing to have stuck to it. any employee is welcome to ask questions here. i think it is urgent to contribute to the objectification. i want to break a lance for the statute, for the parole board, for equal opportunity - by the way, also in this house. i know the officers and the officers rely on it and count on us. i therefore take note of the commissioner's statement that the rules and procedures of the statute have been respected. there were actually two assessment centers. we have no change of status for former commissioners, commissioner. it would be important for you to say that again. it would be very important to hear from you again. and i also note that no one doubted that the nominee could do it. i think it's important for promotions to always make sure that the nominee can do it. the rest we will clarify in the committee on budgetary control and hopefully then get a resolution.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what has happened here in the last few weeks has made the european union vulnerable. it is making itself vulnerable because in the eyes of the public it smells of a cousin economy, it smells of a rapid transit system. all this, commissioner, may be in accordance with the letter of the rules, but in the eyes of the public it does not correspond to the european principles of transparency, openness and clear procedures with equal opportunities. and so, they remembered the candidate's political sense. i don't want to question that, but i'm appealing to your political intuition. do not pretend that nothing has happened and that everything is fine, when in fact many questions are rightly being asked all over europe! if you take the consequences of this scandal, you will no longer use the exceptional provisions to the detriment of the transparency and openness of the procedure provided for by the staff regulations. all posts - including those in parliament and the commission - must be advertised openly and transparently. the relevant decisions are put on the agendas of the committees beforehand. please draw the consequences so that this does not become an electoral aid for populists in the european elections!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have no doubt about mr selmayr's legal and scientific qualifications, but i have doubts about his procedures and his professional competence as the head of 33 000 officials. mr selmayr has only been a member of the cabinet of luxembourg commissioners, not a german civil servant - for those who want to attribute that to germany. he lacks the experience of the normal civil service career, the probationary promotion: no head of department, no head of department, no director none of that. the process was far from transparent - reminiscent of the 19th century secret bureaucracy. and mr selmayr has often dealt with the other elected institutions in the past. he wanted to put pressure on parliament again to appoint mr schulz as president, and he described four commissioners in the finnish press as useless. why he's still in office is a mystery, ladies and gentlemen. but in the end i say: this is an inappropriate takeover of power in the eu, if you will, through the back door. luxembourg has done it again. it reminds me of the augsburg doll box, where someone pulls the strings on top and the dolls dance on the bottom.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. trade must serve the people. trade is only useful if it serves people; it has no other purpose. trade has no end in itself. we have seen this in recent weeks and months, when the issue of trade, eu trade agreements, has brought people into the streets, all over europe. for the people were no longer sure whether trade was for them or for trade. i think that's what these fundamental things are all about. we have only a minute, so i want to limit myself to five principles. first: it is time, and it is high time, that women are finally the focus of trade agreements. secondly, women's rights are never trade barriers, they must never be trade barriers. thirdly, women's rights create prosperity in all countries. fourthly, women should be at the negotiating table when it comes to agreements. and fifth, women are part of the team that monitors the agreements on a daily basis. women are part of humanity, they are half of humanity. so in the future, trade does not have to serve people, but trade has to serve women and men equally. that's our goal.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i believe that a value-based trade policy aimed at creating a high level of protection for labour, environmental and human rights is very relevant to sustainable global development and i support such action. it is important that these measures, including the enshrinement of women's rights, do not lead to an overburdening of free trade agreements and an excessive restriction of international trade in goods and services. international trade contributes to the growth of wealth worldwide, with few exceptions, in particular to job creation and to improving wages and working conditions. that goes for women, too. however, binding chapters, even with sanctions, are counterproductive. that would do more harm than good on balance. and that is why the epp would not support it.
i have to say, madam president, international trade is carried out without regard to the status of the person, it is based on the respective purchasing power. discrimination against women cannot be found in any trade agreement - why not! if women have purchasing power, they will naturally act as buyers. there was talk of gender blindness. that's it! sure, contracts are gender-blind, they don't pay attention to the person. and if it is said: not competition and profit yes, what else? discrimination and loss? one example has been given: that international trade is damaging the agricultural economy in africa, especially women who are farmers. why is that? because we have a failed agricultural policy and export the surpluses of that agricultural policy to africa! that's why the farmers are dying. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is seen from a position of power, so to speak. if we were a small country, the whole world would laugh at us if we made such demands. but we have 500 million consumers behind us. so we can try to push our idea of genderism around the world. this is arrogance, this is power!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, colleagues, let’s face it: we are experiencing a major backlash on women’s rights in the european union. many of us actually grew up believing that there is only one direction in which women’s rights could go, namely that we would become more and more protected and that we would gain more rights over the years. that is simply not the case anymore, because we see attacks on women’s rights all over the european union and those who are attacking women’s rights have now chosen the istanbul convention as one of the battlefields in this discussion. they are doing that for purely ideological reasons. they are not doing that on the basis of any scientific or real arguments; they are doing that because they want to push forward their ideology of taking away our rights. we will not give up; we will not be afraid of that. the suffragettes, 100 years ago, in many parts of europe fought for the right of women to vote. we will be the generation of feminists that will make sure that women are protected from gender-based violence all over the european union. we will ratify the istanbul convention all over the european union and make sure that there is an end to gender-based violence.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, ms anderson, the shadow rapporteurs and the chair of the committee on transport and tourism (tran). thanks to your hard work, we were able to reach an agreement on this regulation on cross-border parcel delivery services last december. it is an important step for ecommerce and the digital single markets. today’s rules do not support cross-border ecommerce. 68% of internet users in the european union shopped online last year, but only 33% of these e—shoppers bought goods or services from sellers based in another eu country. 17% of smes in the european union sold online in 2016, but only 7.5% of smes did so across borders. high delivery prices are one of the reasons why the potential of cross-border ecommerce still remains untapped in the european union. they are a major concern for consumers and companies, especially smes. delivery prices vary a lot across europe, often without justification. on average, someone who sends a two-kilogram parcel to another eu country pays three to five times more than the domestic price. in some cases, it is much higher – up to 22 times as high. with this new regulation, we are addressing these issues through more price transparency and a stronger role for regulators. a month ago, i was here for the debates on the regulation against unjustified geo-blocking. today, i am pleased that we can fill in another new and important piece of the puzzle, building on other recent agreements to simplify vat rules for ecommerce and to strengthen consumer protection. step by step, we are creating a digital single market. thank you for your support.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. a fully integrated european single market for consumers also means that products purchased across borders reach the customer, safely and at the lowest possible cost. unfortunately, we in europe are still a long way from that point. to give just one example: how is it that a package from brussels to aachen costs about four times as much as a package from munich to berlin, even though it is four times as far? it is not difficult to see what is at stake. it is not a question of national wage structures or transport costs. we already have the impression that some providers are taking advantage of the fact that people have no idea what a cross-border package might cost. the central objective of this regulation is therefore to create price transparency, in particular for consumers, but also for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are particularly affected by excessive prices but which also want to take advantage of the possibilities of the internal market in online trade. we in the epp group will support this agreement. i thank the rapporteur. it took a while to get our heads together, but we found a good solution which in the end convinced the council to a large extent. i am sure that sooner or later this regulation will also lead to lower consumer prices, and that has been worth all the effort.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not alone in its concern to ensure that the community's financial interests are not undermined. first of all, i would like to thank rapporteur lucy anderson and the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work that has finally resulted in a good, viable compromise. because it's clear that online commerce has grown significantly in recent years. we see that it already represents three per cent of gdp, of gross domestic product, and it is growing significantly, particularly in the cross-border area. i think that the compromise can also be seen because we have been able to negotiate some improvements for the customers, for example in terms of price transparency, but above all also in terms of consumer protection. for example, forwarding agents will have to provide clear information on the prices of international parcel delivery and return, for example in the context of market surveillance, and national regulatory authorities will have to review parcel delivery under universal service obligations, ultimately also in the light of high tariffs. it's a good solution all around. thank you again to everyone who helped.
(the president cut off the microphone and began to speak) do you know what this is? these are iodine tablets. belgium has purchased 45 million of these to help protect its citizens from radioactive radiation in the event of a nuclear accident. just a precaution? the decaying tihange nuclear power plant speaks a different language: finger-thick cracks in the reactor, more and more accidents, little dialogue with neighbouring countries, no cross-border emergency management concept. and belgium only prescribes iodine against the sickly meiler. excuse me, these pills are a tranquilizer for the barrel. i appeal to the belgian government, together with my free voters in north rhine-westphalia and rhineland-palatinate, together with millions of citizens in the tri-state area: close tihange immediately! i appeal to the commission to put pressure on the belgian government in the name of security. i appeal to the german government: stop your silence! off to tihange! once again, stop tihange now before it's too late!
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, we are at a critical juncture in negotiations with the united kingdom. we need to secure an orderly withdrawal and put in place all the conditions for a transition period based on the status quo. we also need to outline the framework for the future relationship between the european union and the united kingdom. it is particularly important for us that there is no backsliding on the commitments from the joint report, especially with regard to the three key withdrawal issues, namely citizens’ rights, financial settlement and ireland. the uk set itself the goal of getting the transition agreed in march, with the shared understanding that this is a part of the overall package that is to be finalised in october. during last week’s negotiations, some openings on the transition were made and there was also some movement on the area of withdrawal, but we need to treat these cautiously. we need real and sustained progress in order to meet our deadlines. looking beyond the transition period, we are determined to build with the united kingdom a broad and close partnership. our commitment to seek such a partnership is shared by the parliament, as reflected in your resolutions. in fact, even the very first guidelines adopted by the european council already indicated the desired scope and nature of this partnership. it is also clear, at least from a negotiation perspective, that the understanding of the framework for the future relationship, which will be reflected in a political declaration accompanying the withdrawal agreement, cannot be more detailed than what we know of the uk position. in that respect, we have, in fairness, acknowledged that even though over the last fourteen months there has been a succession of speeches outlining the uk’s view on the future of our relations, we still need more concrete and more operational proposals. at the same time, there are no indications that the united kingdom’s red lines have changed since last year. all this explains why the draft guidelines due to be adopted by the european council on 23 march are not more detailed. this will hopefully provide the political space for broader dynamics of the negotiations with the uk. in a nutshell, and again in reflection of the constraints set out by the uk’s position and by our principles and legal order, the forthcoming guidelines foresee that at the core of the partnership will be the elements of a free trade agreement (fta) focused on goods, but also including services. trade facilitation elements, such as customs cooperation, addressing barriers to trade, etc., are also envisaged. two important sectors are also pointed out in the guidelines: fisheries and aviation, along with the basic principles that should govern cooperation on them. then, taking into account the importance and the proximity of the uk, the guidelines foresee robust provisions on a level playing field. securing fair competition between businesses on both sides of the channel is an important task, if we want a properly functioning and ambitious fta. the same logic applies to governance: the closer our relationship, the stronger its governance should be. as mentioned before, the future partnership with the uk is meant to be broad. beyond the economic dimension, it should also reflect the commonality of interests and threats we share with the uk. this is why in the proposed guidelines you see provisions on police and judicial cooperation, as well as on security, defence and foreign policy. the guidelines make it clear that a key point in this context is also preserving the autonomy of decision-making of the european union. in that sense, the partnership we have in mind largely covers the same four pillars of possible cooperation suggested by your resolution. let me conclude by recalling that, more than ever, our unity matters. this holds true for the unity of the 27 member states, but also for unity among our institutions. in this respect, i am very much reassured by the broad convergence of the priorities set out in your resolution, and those flagged in the guidelines due to be adopted by the european council. thank you very much for your attention.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 349 days ago the united kingdom notified the european council of its intention to leave the european union. in 381 days, at midnight on 29 march 2019, the united kingdom will have left the european union. (applause from certain quarters) (reacting to off-microphone comments by david coburn and other members of the efdd group) the time will come when you will regret your decision. from the very first days of these unique and difficult negotiations, our objective has always been and will remain to achieve an orderly withdrawal of the united kingdom in its own interests and in those of the european union. but every day that passes, the urgency of meeting all the necessary conditions for such a withdrawal grows. this urgency must be an incentive for all of us, the european union and the united kingdom, to act methodically, pragmatically and transparently. it is this method, this pragmatism and this transparency that are at the heart of the proposal for a text on the withdrawal agreement which the commission approved on 28 february last and which merely translates legally the commitments which we, the commission and the united kingdom, made together last december in the joint report. michel barnier is now discussing our draft text in detail with this parliament and the council of ministers, because the final draft of the withdrawal agreement, which will be sent to our british partners as a basis for negotiation, will reflect the unity of the 27 member states of the european union and its institutions. i would like to thank michel barnier and his team for the extraordinary work they have been doing for months, day and night, to bring these negotiations to a successful conclusion. (applause) i would like to thank my friend michel barnier, his team, we all stand for the structured and thoughtful approach to our side. in this sense we have poured the agreements we have made together with the united kingdom into a solid contract text, which emphasizes above all the rights of citizens. somit ist dieser text weitaus mehr als eine ansammlung von paragrafen. this is a text which is more than a collection of paragraphs. it's going to be a thousand years, if not more. we are making sure that the life choices of these people, of the citizens of europe, have not fallen victim to brexit. we have therefore insisted that eu citizens in the uk retain their rights even after brexit. the draft of the withdrawal agreements is so concrete that citizens can also apply to the british courts for one of their rights. the period after the withdrawal of the united kingdom is also a year of partnership. the unity of the internal market must be preserved, however, because citizens and businesses must be able to rely on the same rules and institutions. the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. it would have been better if the british had not decided to step in. the european union is not a political union, but a political union. those who leave behind four decades of common agreements and solutions will have to take responsibility for ensuring that not everything can remain as it is. ten days ago, prime minister may gave us some more clarity on how the uk sees its future relationship with the european union. as my good friend john bruton wrote in a recent article the most valuable test that ms may wishes to apply to a brexit agreement is that it should be one that would endure and not require constant renegotiation. i couldn't agree more, which means that everything that we say and that we do on both sides will require the utmost clarity to help us pass the test. it is obvious that we need further clarity from the uk if we are to reach an understanding on our future relationship. we are preparing for this on the european union side. last week, president tusk circulated draft guidelines that will be discussed by the leaders of the eu 27 next week. as the clock counts down we have one year to go it is now time to translate speeches into treaties, to turn commitments into agreements, and broad suggestions and wishes on the future relationship to specific workable solutions. this is especially important when it comes to ireland. both the united kingdom and european union have agreed that there should be no hard border between ireland and northern ireland. the good friday agreement must be preserved in all its dimensions, and life for citizens on both sides of the border should be the same as it is today. both sides agreed in december that there are three options to do this. the first is through the future partnership agreement if possible. the second is through specific solutions that the united kingdom has said it will put forward. we are ready to work on these two options, but we need to receive concrete proposals from the united kingdom first. the third option is the backstop solution. it would apply only if the first two options do not materialize. this scenario would see full alignment on those tools that protect the good friday agreement, north-south cooperation and the all-island economy. the draft protocol on ireland should not come as a surprise or a shock. it faithfully translates last december's agreement into a legal text. the european union, this house and the 27 member states stand firm and united when it comes to ireland. for us, this is not an irish issue, it is a european issue. (reacting to off-microphone comment it is a british issue by mr coburn) it is a european issue. it is all for one and one for all. that is what it means to be part of this union. we pool our resources and our sovereignty to strengthen one another and to give ourselves more sovereignty when dealing with the rest of the world. we see this with brexit. we see this with threats. we see this across the board. as we build our future together, we must continue to make each other stronger by working together and building a more united, stronger and more democratic union. this must be our joint focus. we need to focus on our european future, not the past, not on brexit. (applause) i would like to thank you.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. brexit is bad for all of us. what the negotiations are about now is damage control. i hope that we will make the necessary progress and i am grateful that we have the unity of the european union, the institutions and the member states. this is certainly also a credit to michel barnier, who is discussing things with us in such a transparent way. my group agrees with the draft withdrawal agreement, subject to the conditions discussed in december on the open borders for ireland, the question of finances and civil rights. we also think it is right to find a transitional arrangement as provided for in the treaty if the united kingdom is prepared to accept the conditions of the european union with the four freedoms, with the currency and with the european court of justice for another 21 months - or whatever period that will be. this is the precondition for us to have enough time to negotiate a trade agreement. the german confederation of industry also said yesterday that we should have a customs union. yes, i am in favour of a customs union, but the uk must then meet the conditions. the united kingdom has rejected a customs union, and the united kingdom has also rejected membership of the single market, following a norwegian solution, because it is not prepared to meet the conditions for this. and that's why the only thing left to do is negotiate a trade agreement. i mean, this is a trade agreement with a third country. i think it is right that theresa may has admitted for the first time that if you no longer meet european standards, you will have less access to the european single market - with all the consequences of the smaller partner, the united kingdom, which must be seen there. we must also recognize that this attempt to take out individual sectors and have full access here is a raisin-picking exercise. if britain wants this only for the areas in which it has a special interest, then it cannot be done. anyone who leaves a golf club and wants to play, has to pay a green fee. this is not a punishment, but a normal burden that must be done. the member states pay their contributions and fulfil their obligations. this is an important point about how we have to move forward together. president trump has taken action against bombardier in the uk, now announcing sanctions against europe for steel and aluminium. it is only if we all stand together - including the british - that we have a chance of countering such a policy. that is why european unity on such matters is a matter of european survival. mr farage must understand that, too, for he is plunging his own country into disaster. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. you will have noticed that over the past few months my group has been trying very hard to get involved in the debate on the development of parliament's positions to accompany the brexit negotiations. we have done this primarily because it is of the utmost importance to us that the rights of people in the uk, but also within the eu and, of course, especially in northern ireland, are not undermined in the negotiations and cannot be used as a bargaining chip by any side. we have already made a great deal of progress on these questions. we can no longer compare it with the first starting points. we will continue to ensure that the rights of residence and the right of free movement of uk citizens within the eu are respected. we should also think about this because, for example, the proposal which has been submitted for the draft divorce agreement contains restrictions, particularly as regards the right of uk nationals in member states to be able to provide services to companies in other member states. obviously, this is something that has come in relatively quickly. we will continue to insist that the rights of the people of northern ireland be respected. it is not just about rights that are just said to exist, but it is really about all the existing international agreements to which we have committed ourselves and in which democratic rights, social rights and human rights have been defined. one thing is clear: these rights are protected only in the withdrawal agreement, nowhere else. we need this withdrawal agreement for that, and that is why we will work towards this withdrawal agreement again and again and also contribute to this. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they refer in particular to the proposals on paragraphs 21, 22, 23, 24, the organization of foreign relations and the organization of security relations in this cooperation. we shall also be tabled amendments to that effect. nevertheless, we decided to co-sign the resolution because it is important, as i said earlier, for the continuation of the fight for the rights of people, of citizens in the areas throughout the former eu, but also in the areas or regions and countries that are created by brexit itself. we also want to draw attention to the need to protect the rights of women workers even more, namely the rights of immigrant women workers. we are also concerned about the question of border crossers. we must also think about this again, there is still a need here, we still have a lot to do. in this context, i would like to signal that we will continue the work of our group with a critical but solidary attitude to the rights of citizens.
madam president, last week, the ceo of the port of dover went to brussels and presented his view of brexit. he made it very clear that if the 10 000 trucks going in and out of dover everyday are only held up by 2 minutes because of brexit there would be a 17 mile queue outside dover – and equivalent chaos in dunkirk and calais. yesterday, the frankfurter allgemeine zeitung reported that brexit alone costs britain eur 32 billion a year because of bureaucracy and customs. by the way, eur 37 billion will be the cost to the remaining european countries. in other words, it is very clear brexit remains a lose-lose situation. what surprises me is that almost everybody, except the brexiteers to my left here, hate brexit but there is nobody in this house trying to stop it. i think it is time, mr president, that you make britain a new offer, an offer which britain cannot refuse, an offer which gives britain what they always wanted. give some more autonomy over their immigration and let’s keep them in the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. you have repeatedly predicted in this house that brexit would have catastrophic consequences for the united kingdom. well, first of all, it should be noted that this brexit will not happen at all because of the behaviour of the european union and because of the attempt to deepen this union ever further. but let's get back to your predictions. this 19-page paper is half about how to prevent the uk from having the same advantages as other countries in the european union. if the uk is going to be worse off by leaving, why are you so afraid that the uk will be better off in the end if you don't stop it? that is what you are arguing about in this debate, and it is dishonest to argue on that basis. we have common interests. we should make sure we can continue to trade together. and that's possible with a little goodwill.
the council presidency, madam president, mr president of the commission! if britain wants to be a third country, then we must negotiate sensibly with a third country and start there. this means that in the transitional arrangements we must ensure that the uk does not conclude its own trade agreements during the transitional arrangements, that the level playing field is maintained - for example on the issue of regulatory cooperation or on aid. we also need to start negotiating a post-transition trade agreement with the three elements of the question of tariffs, customs clearance and regulatory cooperation - so that we do not become increasingly separate - and also with regard to rules - so issues of intellectual property, workers' rights and so on. all of this needs to be dealt with as quickly as possible. i can only ask the british government to look at the realm of reality from the realm of dreams and to enter into substantive negotiations!
madam president, as this process unfolds, we can all clearly see what the biggest lie was during the brexit campaign. it was not a bus that was claiming that that there would be gbp 350 million for the nhs, it was not the wrong statistics given or the wrong representations of the european union; it was the claim itself that was a lie – taking back control – because as we see brexit develop, we see that it does the exact opposite. millions of citizens – non-british and british eu citizens – are losing control over their lives. they are losing control over the possibilities that they have in their lives. we see the people on the island of ireland losing control over the peace process which they thought was going in the right direction. we need to say very clearly that when this is going to unfold, when we are going to lose control, who is going to win from this? it is going to be the bullies, it is going to be the people with no scruples. this parliament has to make sure that the good people are not going to lose control, that we stand up for their rights, that we stand up for them having control over their lives, even in this very horrible situation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are discussing here today guidelines for the future relationship between the eu and the united kingdom. this is important. but i also tell you that when i go to the marketplace or sit at the table in my own house, people are not discussing what the future of the united kingdom will be. what people expect from the commission is a solution for the eu-27 of the future, above all a financial solution. and the people are very clear: 'we are not paying a cent more, we are already paying enough.' unfortunately, this message does not reach brussels. a third of the brexit gap, says commissioner oettinger, is to be filled by germany - three to four billion euros more per year. we are already paying 13 billion euros more than we are getting. plus four is 17, divided by 82 million is 208 euros per head. that is why my appeal in this round is: if we find a solution for the budget, let us also discuss guidelines for relations between the eu and its citizens!
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, next week, leaders will meet in brussels for a series of key debates. as usual for its spring meeting, the european council will focus on jobs, growth and competitiveness. the overall picture is positive. the european economy is growing at a fast pace across member states and unemployment is falling. looking ahead, this robust performance is expected to continue in the coming years. the global environment, however, remains uncertain, and we need to continue to ensure the conditions to support confidence. one essential aspect, in order to foster jobs and growth and promote innovation, is to unlock the full potential of the single market. the european council will address the different single market strategies, including when it comes to the digital single market, the capital markets union and the energy union, to ensure sustained progress. delivering on these strategies in the current institutional cycle is a shared responsibility that will require co-legislators to continue to work closely on a number of legislative files and to speed up the process where necessary. policy priorities under the european semester also help create the right conditions for growth. we will have the opportunity to discuss this tomorrow night. the european council will provide guidance on the priorities for 2018 and will be invited to endorse the recommendation on the economic policy of the euro area. the european council will also return to social issues following the debate held in december. last but not least, we know how vital trade is to our common prosperity in europe and globally. that is why any attempts to undermine the rules-based multilateral trading system affect all of us. the european union should play a leading role in opposing them. the european council will discuss international trade relations following the us announcements. i know you will discuss this tomorrow and will review ongoing work in the field of trade policy and free trade agreement negotiations. beyond the formal session of the european council, leaders will also exchange views on taxation as part of the leaders’ agenda. they will hold an open debate, with a particular focus on the challenges associated with digital taxation. in keeping with the spirit of the leaders’ agenda, there will be no conclusions or formal outcome on this point next week. finally, leaders of the euro area will meet in the margins of the european council. they will hold an open debate on long-term issues that are specific to the euro area. so, altogether, the leaders next week will touch upon many aspects that underpin our economic and social future. the european council will also deal with a number of other issues: it will address the preparations for the eu-western balkans summit in sofia on 17 may 2018, since a specific priority of the bulgarian presidency is the european perspective and connectivity of the western balkans. as you know, this is a major event for the presidency. the council will also discuss relations with turkey. as you just discussed, the european council on article 50 will meet on friday to review the state of the negotiations with the united kingdom and adopt additional guidelines on the future relationship with the uk.
president of the commission. – mr president, just under two weeks ago, i returned from a tour of the western balkans. it was a memorable trip for many reasons. what struck me the most was the passion and conviction in the european union. this gave me a renewed sense of belief and hope that if a region, a dramatic region like the western balkans, is so determined to reform from top to bottom in order to join our union, then we must be a union worth being part of. the western balkans clearly see much more in us then we ourselves see in our union. i want to see the same belief in our union across all 27 member states. of course, there is a great deal of work to be done. all bilateral disputes must be resolved and more unity is needed. each of the western balkan partners must continue their reform path, especially when it comes to the rule of law and fundamental freedoms and values. as i said to all leaders in the region, there will be no fast-tracking. we will put substance over speed. each case will be taken on its own merits, with no fixed dates or firm deadlines. but i came back from the trip more convinced than ever that it is our shared future. it is about reconciling our history and geography, but it is also another reason to focus on building a stronger, more democratic and united union. this is what the march european council is about. i would like to thank this house and the bulgarian presidency for leading the way in recent weeks. the breakthrough on posted workers will ensure that fairness comes first in our labour market. as we collectively agreed: equal pay for equal work in the same place. the agreement on 5g shows that we are serious about our digital leadership and equipping ourselves with the tools we need to thrive in the society of tomorrow. mr president, europe believe in open and fair trade based on a global rule book. our economy depends on it and our consumers expect it. but as i have said all along: we are not naive free traders. so we will not sit idly by if our industry is hit with unfair trade measures that put european jobs at risk. we will defend our workers; we will defend our industry, and we will do so while respecting the rules that the world agreed to under the wto. the united states has regrettably decided to impose restrictions on steel and aluminium which will impact a significant amount of eu trade. we believe in win-win trade, but going it alone on tariffs is a lose-lose for all. yes, the global steel industry has an overcapacity problem. this is why, since december, along with japan and the us, we have been looking at how to address this issue globally. commissioner malmström met with both of her counterparts this weekend to deepen that cooperation further. and she also expressed our concerns to the united states on the tariffs being imposed on national security grounds. exports from the european union are clearly not a threat to the united states’ national security. we are long-standing and trusted security partners and we work together to keep each other safe and secure. as their own figures show, the us only needs 3% of its annual steel production to serve the pentagon’s needs. we will keep making this point in the run-up to the european council next week. we are expecting more clarity from the american side in the coming days, and we will continue to work with our partners to push for an exemption from these measures. as always, we will – and we have to – prepare for all eventualities. should the need arise, the european union will respond in three ways. firstly, under wto rules we have the right to rebalance these measures, and we stand ready to do so. secondly, we will be ready with safeguard measures if there is a surge in imports into the european union as a result of the us closing its market. and thirdly, we will seek dispute settlement consultations in the wto, in conjunction with other affected countries. herr präsident, meine sehr verehrten damen und herren! wenn wir unserer union mehr stärke, mehr handlungsfähigkeit verleihen wollen, müssen wir auch in die architektur unserer wirtschafts- und währungsunion investieren und sie zukunftsfester machen. die umstände dafür sind so günstig wie selten zuvor. die europäische wirtschaft wächst über erwarten, in den vergangenen zwei jahren mit mehr als zwei prozent. und sie wächst schneller als die us-amerikanische wirtschaft. gleichzeitig haben wir in europa mehr menschen in arbeit als jemals zuvor, 236,3 millionen – ein neuer rekord. das sollte uns bestätigung und ansporn zugleich sein, unseren reformkurs konsequent fortzusetzen. und genau das tun wir. so legt die kommission heute am frühen nachmittag ein paket zur bankenunion vor. es geht darum, die finanzstabilität zu sichern, indem wir uns noch stärker mit notleidenden krediten beschäftigen. dort haben wir schon einige erfolge erzielt. seit 2014 ist der durchschnittliche anteil notleidender kredite in der eu schon um ein drittel gesunken. dabei wollen wir es nicht belassen. das ist umso wichtiger, weil bei der vollendung der bankenunion risikominderung und risikoteilung hand in hand gehen. eine vollendete bankenunion wäre ein wichtiger schritt, um unsere wirtschafts- und währungsunion zu stärken. genau darum geht es beim gipfel. über die vorschläge, die die kommission im dezember vorgelegt hat, haben wir hier im hause und bei einem früheren eurogipfel schon diskutiert. wir wollen den europäischen stabilitätsmechanismus schrittweise zu einem europäischen währungsfonds ausbauen. außerdem wollen wir die mitgliedsstaaten und solche, die es werden wollen, bei den reformen unterstützen sowie mit einer stabilisierungsfunktion sicherstellen, dass selbst im falle von schweren schocks investitionen in bildung und infrastruktur weiterhin gewährleistet bleiben. monsieur le président, mesdames et messieurs, chers collègues, compléter l’union économique et monétaire n’est pas une fin en soi, c’est un moyen de créer les conditions d’une vie meilleure, d’une vie plus prospère et plus équitable pour tous nos concitoyens. égalité des chances, conditions de travail équitables, protection et insertion sociales doivent devenir une réalité pour tous. c’est pour cela que nous nous sommes engagés à mettre en œuvre le socle européen des droits sociaux. 16 millions de nos concitoyens, par exemple, vivent et travaillent dans un autre état membre que le leur. c’est deux fois plus qu’il y a dix ans et ce phénomène ne fera que s’amplifier. ces personnes ont, comme tout un chacun, des droits qui doivent être respectés et effectivement mis en œuvre dans un marché européen du travail. c’est la raison pour laquelle la commission va présenter aujourd’hui sa proposition de création d’une autorité européenne du travail qui ne viendra pas se substituer aux autorités nationales mais qui renforcera la coopération et la coordination entre elles. ceux qui travaillent à temps partiel, ceux qui relèvent du statut des travailleurs intérimaires ont eux aussi droit à une protection sociale convenable. c’est une responsabilité commune, celle de mettre en œuvre le socle des droits sociaux. il faut évidemment continuer à parfaire le marché intérieur, notamment les marchés de l’électricité qui, en europe, s’ils étaient totalement interconnectés, les européens feraient des économies de 40 milliards d’euros par année. si l’europe numérique fonctionnait, cela nous apporterait 415 milliards d’euros de croissance nouvelle chaque année. donc rien que sur l’interconnectivité de l’électricité et de la mise en place totale de l’europe numérique, nous réaliserions un bénéfice – si je peux m’exprimer de la sorte – de 450 milliards. nous avons tous, je crois, conscience qu’il serait essentiel, souhaitable, bienvenu que nous puissions mettre en œuvre tous les éléments dont je viens de vous parler d’ici les élections européennes de l’année prochaine. (applaudissements)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply. i would like to address three issues. firstly, following our discussion on brexit, i would like to make it clear once again, also to the british government: the european union is not a supermarket where you go in, choose your products and buy them as cheaply as possible. we have the european single market, and the european single market is not a self-service shop. the commission has already made some good proposals for future cooperation. and when we adopt our resolution tomorrow, i think we will have delivered and shown that we have an idea of what good neighbourly partnership should look like in the future. the second topic which will also be discussed at the council summit next week is the digital single market and, above all, the question of taxation. i would like to emphasise that i very much welcome the commission's proposals on taxation of the digital economy. it is also a very important issue for our citizens that tax legislation in this european union should also be fair. this will also be a subject for the taxe 3 committee, which we will be voting on tomorrow. and we also have to look closely at what is happening in the british virgin islands right now with regard to brexit. we cannot allow tax havens to be created here alongside the european single market. the last point: the subject of economic and monetary union. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. as you know, i'm not a friend of the liability community. i believe that risk taking and liability must go hand in hand and that we therefore do not need a pooling of liability here. there are various proposals from the commission. i'm sure we'll have a long talk about this at home.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, mr president of the commission, honourable member of the council! the first and most important disappointment of this summit is to be noted before the summit participants even arrive. the problem is that the promise made by president macron and chancellor merkel in december, that they would present joint proposals for discussion with colleagues from the other member states on the development of the european union in march, at this summit, is clearly not being fulfilled, especially under pressure from outside, whether from russia, china or the united states. this disappointment is not offset by the fact that the summit will deal with issues that are indeed very important, from jobs and competitiveness to the western balkans, from trade policy to the social pillar, from tax policy to foreign affairs. the council's position is that the european union must be able to take action in the field of justice and home affairs. the delay in the berlin and paris proposals is due to a fundamental difference. we are not going to be able to do that. or do we want an inclusive europe? we are not talking about a single currency, but about a single currency. this has to be settled! we need a vision of europe that is inclusive, that values diversity, protects citizens, empowers self-determination, makes the economy fairer and realises the ecological and social transformation that we owe to our children and to the world.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. just a few words on the preparations for the balkans summit, since this point is also important: yes, we promised to bring the western balkan countries closer to the eu, and we promised to help them restructure and reform their countries. we are asking more and more and more that these countries do their homework before they join the eu. but now it is our turn in the eu to do our homework. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. talk to our greek friends about how we can help them with the multiple problems that they have with the balkan states, and please make sure that none of the six partners are at the cat table just because some are not as far along as the majority of european countries.
we believe that this decision should be made here because it is of great importance to our community. we are in favour of europeans doing more together for our common security, and that includes close cooperation in the field of the security industry. but what we have to decide is a missed opportunity. we are not going to reduce the 178 weapons systems we have in europe, we are not going to reduce the 80% of purely national military spending, we are not going to increase the 15% efficiency rate. that means we will not be able to achieve the objectives that are being proclaimed. that is why we are criticizing this proposal. we don't need more money for armor, we need more efficiency. we don't need any more overcapacity. it only leads to new arms exports.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission has already made a number of proposals. budgetary policy is generally considered unsexy. but it's not, it's the powerhouse of politics. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that in principle mr oettinger's proposal is right as far as the overall architecture is concerned: a little less for traditional agriculture, a little less for cohesion. but the policy in this area needs to be speeded up, the application procedures need to be simplified, and they need to be, of course - i say this as a green person - more environmentally friendly. at the same time, we must respond to the big questions: defence, protection of external borders, combating global inequality in the european union, but especially on a global scale, as regards africa and asia. and then, of course, we have to take climate policy and the paris agreement much more seriously than we have done so far. and we must set new priorities, and i agree with mr oettinger on this point too. we must spend more on research, more on culture and education, more on erasmus+, more on the european solidarity service, and we must provide fresh money for defence, not take it out of the research programme. that's not right. but we as europe must, in the face of xi jinping forever and the rise of the chinese military establishment and the terrible trump who has today also thrown out foreign minister tillerson, develop a common european defence policy worthy of the name. i now come to the question of own resources. i have participated twice in the negotiations on budgetary policy and the multiannual financial framework. we need new own resources. and that means, above all, a digital tax, because we have to ask the digital monopolies to cash in. they have to pay taxes in europe - google, facebook, apple and amazon. and we need a plastic tax. this is a really green, ecological proposal from the commissioner for budgets. i support that. these various measures can be used to make the citizens aware of the following for the next elections: the eu delivers, the eu understands the needs of european citizens.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the new multiannual financial framework is the first taste of the kind of eu we want in the future. more or less everyone here is talking about more subsidiarity, de-bureaucratization and thrift. but the present draft does not correspond to that. and my predecessor from the socialists said we need more money because we know how to boost the economy, we know how to make start-ups succeed and so on. i do not think so, ladies and gentlemen. i don't think we know that any better than the actual heads of corporations. they know how to run the economy. we should create the right conditions, but we should not collect money in the member states and then redistribute it through brussels. this is the exact opposite of a lean eu. we should clear the area. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. and if i want to regulate less, i must not provide more budgetary resources. i have to wonder what i can actually accomplish. and let me be clear about this: the eu budget is predominantly a programme budget. and in a programme budget it should be the most natural thing in the world that programmes are reduced accordingly when a member state leaves. but instead, it is proposed here that the member states' contributions in relation to gross national income should be increased by 30%. this is the opposite of a lean and frugal eu. but the citizens want a lean and frugal eu. that is why i am only calling for new funds if we have a real political approach to solving crises, for example in the area of migration, for example in the euro crisis. but the political will to do so must be defined. instead, we see that the funds for the former esm are now to be transferred to a separate budget line, a temporary element ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mr kuźmiuk, i have listened to your comments very carefully. if i understand you correctly, your position is quite the opposite of what your group's colleague, mr kölmel, said a few minutes ago. i would like to ask you, therefore, whether there is a coherent position of the european conservatives and reformists or not.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we are faced with a very important decision for the future of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. the question now is: what policy should this european union pursue in the years 2021 to 2027 and how do we finance it in the end? we are also waiting for the member states to give us their feedback so that they can finally tell us what kind of union they want and then, hopefully, give us the necessary means to achieve it. it is good that we are creating regulations here in this house to implement the political objectives of the eu. but these objectives must ultimately be reflected in eu spending. that's not less important. the united kingdom's withdrawal will reduce revenue and some member states and - as we have heard - some members of this house believe that expenditure will have to be reduced as a result. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. this can be done in lalaland, or perhaps in interviews in scandinavian, dutch or austrian newspapers, and since i'm shown a blue card, in british certainly, but not in european reality. unless, mr. oettinger, you have the famous golden donkey from the brothers grimm's fairy tale in your basement, eating straw in front and shedding gold on the other side. but since that is unlikely to be the case, the question is, how do we finance all of this in the future? frontex this agency should be transformed into a real border guard agency, the european defence research fund is called for, we need the european labour agency to finally be able to monitor compliance with the posting of workers directive in a clean way. we want to increase the mobility of young people, we want to do more to combat the causes of displacement, and in research policy the eu can only really finance one out of every seven promising research projects. there's no money in the front or back. i could go on and on. if we want all this, where are we going to get the money? so if we want to have a europe that is capable of doing things, we can only do it with more resources, either from national budgets or - as i would like to see it - with new own resources from the european union. let us get on with this work. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr etheridge, you were obviously waiting for a catchword and then not listening to me, because that is exactly the point i have developed. it is up to the member states to decide what kind of eu we have here. i can imagine a lot of things. i can imagine - and i am probably in the minority in my group - that we will renationalize agricultural policy and then have only rules to protect competition, so that we do not coordinate ourselves to death. i can imagine all that. i can also imagine the tenfold increase in erasmus to give more young people experience abroad. you can do all that. it is up to the member states to decide what kind of eu they want. my point is: wanting to do more, paying less for it and getting the same amount of money as you got before - that's really not possible.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is a question of how to make up for a brexit budget deficit, but at its core it is a question of what the future of the european union should look like. will it be a europe of solidarity, where the harmonization of living conditions is the top priority? if we translate this into the debate on the financial framework, we must above all strengthen the existing concrete instrument of solidarity, cohesion policy. i hope that the commission will finally make clear and unequivocal statements on this subject, rather than continually presenting new cutbacks. we are calling for no cuts in the structural funds, no use of funds for sanctions and certainly not for armaments. no region can be left out of the aid policy altogether. but national governments also have a responsibility, because their austerity ideology has only exacerbated all crises. the eu's high-profile calls for solutions in brussels and its blocking of paths to member states at home, whether it be a transaction tax or other revenue changes, will permanently prevent investment in a fairer, more social, sustainable and peaceful europe of coexistence.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i cannot believe that we are at odds over what the next eu budget should look like. after brexit, there can be no two opinions. the eu budget does not have to get bigger, as is being discussed here, but it has to get smaller. the eu is losing its third largest net contributor. the united kingdom has contributed almost 40 billion euros net over the last five years, that's eight billion net per year. instead of cutting the budget, you are now also demanding eu taxes on plastics and diesel and higher taxes from the member states. it really leaves me speechless. you really want to tell your constituents that? if not, i'm happy to take over. we have a clear and sensible alternative, namely to radically reduce the eu budget. no eu army, a radical reduction in the cohesion funds, a clear reduction in agricultural subsidies, these departments of the commission are closing down accordingly. we will then have enough money to continue funding, for example, meaningful projects such as erasmus. the money can be saved x times over by cutting the nonsensical subsidies. the citizens are simply fed up with this uncivilised eu. listen to the people, or else you will soon see the eu being hailed elsewhere.
madam president, the name of the eu budget, the multiannual financial framework, makes it seem that we are talking about something really technical, but in fact this multiannual financial framework is deeply political and it will give us the possibility either to build a european union for the future, based on values and principles, or to go back to the past. that is why the mff should address the shrinking space for civil society that we are observing all over the european union. because human rights defenders have to be able to count on us. faced with donald trump and with vladimir putin, the european union is the stronghold of fundamental rights and values, and that is why, dear commissioner, as well as keeping up the good work of, for example, the eu’s human rights instruments, we should also, within the european union, create a fund to defend the rule of law and fundamental rights in the eu itself. the mff is direly needed. we need it to build a europe for the future.
i have to say, madam president, the same indignity year after year: member states would like to reduce their contributions to the mff, and at the same time they demand that the european union take on more tasks, such as the defence union. it is time to say: if we can organise our defence in a european manner, then we can organise a genuine european budget of our own, and that budget includes more own resources. let's say the bad word: own funds. new own resources for the european union it doesn't hurt to say the word. but own resources are not an end in themselves, they are not the omnipotent fantasy of the pro-europeans. they would break up the crippling mff process, they would be more efficient, they would be more effective, they would relieve national budgets and they would make the eu budget a real european budget. they would ensure that we have more money for equalization of living conditions, that we have erasmus, that we can fight youth unemployment, that we can complete the digital transformation, which is more than flying taxis and broadband. the message must be sent to the heads of state and government from here and now: europe must be worth more to us. i would like very much for this message to arrive.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i should like to begin by thanking mr viotti and expressing my respect for the valuable work he has done in preparing the guidelines for parliament. and i am happy to say to you, mr viotti, that i am interested in a regular exchange of views over the next few months, because we should try to coordinate the work of the commission and parliament's priorities as much as possible from today, from march to autumn, when the decisions are to be taken between the council, parliament and the commission. on the one hand, i would argue that your priorities and those of the commission in the 2019 budget are broadly comparable to those of 2018. what was important to you this year will be important to you next year. on the other hand, it is a budget in which the british friends are not members for the first time for the whole year brexit will probably take effect at the end of march next year. but after the negotiators' discussions and my contact with our chief negotiator, michel barnier, we assume that the british are prepared not only to participate constructively in the council's deliberations as a member state but also to participate in the budget for the whole of next year with all the rights and obligations. this can make the job easier. their priorities are our priorities. it is about growth and employment and thus about combating the still too high level of unemployment in many regions of europe, especially youth unemployment. secondly, we must finance the measures that have been approved and make it clear that we are keeping our word where we have programmes. our partners have expectations in the programmes and must finance their programmes in such a way that the allocation of funds along the commitments made is also guaranteed. this is true for horizon 2020, it is true for the connecting europe facility, it is true for cosme, it is true for smes and it is true for erasmus+. just one example: connecting europe, an infrastructure, whether road, rail, energy, is applied for, tested, approved, awarded, built and billed across borders. i would like to say that we have some major projects which we examined and approved one, two, three years ago and which now have to be financed again next year. this is the expectation of the member states, of the investors and of the company carrying out the construction. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is a new one. the point is that we should use the flexibility available next year to finance the implementation of the tasks, particularly where there are new tasks of increasing importance: the provision of humanitarian aid, migration measures, strengthening of external border controls, support for the member states most affected by the refugee problem. so i can tell you that the commission wants to propose to you this morning the facility for refugees in turkey in a second tranche. now is the time. the three billion which you and the member states committed two years ago are now fully committed and payments will soon reach three billion. we must now discuss and decide on a second tranche of these three billion. just one example: we have schools for hundreds of thousands of refugee children, teaching in the appropriate shelters and camps. we now need to create the salary bases for 5,000 teachers for the next school year, which starts in september, so that their contracts can be signed for the next school year. we need clarity on this, the second tranche, and a proportional co-financing will be included in the draft budget for 2019. we propose that the european budget should provide one billion in the run-up to the end of the mff and that the member states should be prepared to provide an additional two billion. the council, your partner, our partner, adopted its guidelines on 20 february this year. the council's guidelines and mr viotti's draft do not differ too much. there are bridging differences between the position of parliament which you are debating today, the position of the council which has been adopted and what we are preparing, which, with the good will of all concerned, although the european elections are slowly approaching, should be reconciled on the road to october/november. in order to reach this joint decision on the 2019 budget in time for november, we want to do everything we can to convey, but also to give you, the in-depth information you need to know in the coming weeks for your discussions on information on the implementation of the 2018 budget and our planning for 2019. we will then probably present the draft budget for 2019 to you and the council in may. the timetable for the autumn is already being prepared by all of us. thank you for your cooperation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to start by thanking my colleague mr viotti very warmly, not only for the good cooperation, but above all for having presented a really good basis of guidelines for the financial year 2019. commissioner, i am glad that we have such a broad common base, especially with regard to horizon 2020 and erasmus. you have made a special mention of cosme in horizon 2020. i would also like to mention future emergence technologies, which is a great program, but it's underfunded, and there are a lot of great proposals, and we need to think about whether we can help in some way in 2019. we have also given a very high priority to the question of how we can prevent young people from becoming unemployed. i hope that together with the commission and the member states we will succeed in further strengthening the youth employment initiative so that young people will find real permanent jobs and not just temporary accommodation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the economic and social consequences of the single market. we also continue to deal with the issues of security and migration. security will continue to play a very, very important role in the ongoing terrorism and will continue to challenge us. i believe that next year we must make it a priority not to be guided by discussions such as brexit and others, but to work intensively on the content of the development of the european union in order to cope with the tasks ahead.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. thank you for your comments. i can agree with you on many things. you have given two excellent examples: migration policy, which is where we really need to focus. i am not going to go into the details of the budget, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the budget. on the one hand, we must strengthen frontex, for example, because we must secure the external borders. we also need to have reasonable procedures for all people arriving. but at the same time, of course, we must also give priority to spending in the countries from which these people come, because every euro we invest there is much better invested than if we wait until these people make a dangerous crossing of the mediterranean and invest here. the same is true of investments in crossborder projects. the eu can clearly add value in this area. i think the whole structure of our budget is still wrong. we are giving the wrong impression to the public if we pretend that we in the eu can fight unemployment in europe once and for all with an eu budget. we can take some measures, but they are not as sustainable as if we were actually freeing the economy from many of the bureaucratic fetters, if we were creating the conditions for the economy to grow. this includes, for example, finally tackling the disparities in the eurozone. we should start with that and not with any subsidies, which are really just a bonfire.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner oettinger, thank you very much for your comments on the 2019 budget, before the multiannual financial framework, which provide a real basis for discussion. i would like to order, on behalf of the citizens of our common home country, germany, a round of the red house for the table. we should all sit down together and listen to what people outside say about what you are saying here: germany must pay more. a third of the brexit hole is to be filled by our taxpayers. that is three to four billion euros more a year. 13 existing plus 4 is 17, by 82 million is 208 euros per head or the equivalent of 13 boxes of pineapples for every german citizen a proud prize! let's not do this. the top edge! the german taxpayers cannot pay any more, not a penny more, dear mr oettinger. please take that into account. then you're welcome to stay in the beer garden. - what?
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the military offensive in eastern ghouta has killed more than 1,200 civilians and injured thousands. the syrian government and its allies are committing war crimes by bombing the besieged civilian population. there must be an immediate ceasefire and immediate humanitarian aid must be provided to the civilian population. the weapons must also be silenced in northern syria and nato must call on turkey to end its invasion of the afrin region, which is contrary to international law. a solution to the conflict will require bringing all parties back to the negotiating table. but the necessary talks must not be misused to normalize relations with war criminals. i strongly condemn the fact that the italian minister of the interior is reported to be receiving the representative of the syrian intelligence service and alleged war criminal ali mamluk for a meeting in rome. the eu must continue to work vigorously to ensure that war criminals are brought to justice. to this end, member states should strengthen and support the prosecution of syrian war criminals in their national courts. the brussels donors' conference on syria in april must ensure that humanitarian aid in the region is delivered in the long term. but also refugees from syria must find protection through generous resettlement programmes and legal pathways to europe.
mr president, as we have just heard, the seven—year—long conflict in syria is a tragedy and having in mind russia’s, iran’s and turkey’s meddling we all know that this became a proxy war years ago. i can only underline what the high representative / vice—president stated. the european union, despite all the difficulties, must continue to push strongly for a political solution of the conflict to end the appalling atrocities. together with the united states, we have to insist on the implementation of the 2015 un security council resolution 2254, as well as resolution 2401, which was adopted just three weeks ago. full implementation would ensure the delivery of immediate, safe, unimpeded and sustained humanitarian assistance. full implementation would ensure the evacuation of the critically sick and wounded, and full implementation would ensure that the suffering of the syrian people would be brought closer to an end. i welcome the eu—hosted second brussels conference in april which will aim at supporting the un-led geneva process, focusing on humanitarian support to syrians inside and outside syria. dear federica mogherini, we all sincerely hope that you will succeed in keeping the attention and response to the syrian crisis at the top of the international agenda. thank you for your work.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. mrs mogherini, why do you not mention that this week the syrian ambassador to the united nations made it clear that the syrian administration had found 24 tonnes of poison gas weapons in the liberated areas, that syria had turned to the united nations 140 times asking for help and support in determining where these weapons came from? that the syrians here have clearly established that weapons from turkey and also from iraq are being delivered to the terrorists in syria. today is actually a historic hour: at 1:03 pm, the russian general staff warned of a possible attack after a staged poison gas attack, where apparently all the extras have been positioned that in a few days the united states may want to attack damascus and syria with a massive missile attack. this is your hour to make peace now, which is publicly for ... (the president interrupts the speaker)
we're now moving on to the spontaneous wording. i'm very sorry to say that i have almost four times as many messages as we originally planned. i therefore decided to proceed in such a way that we take one speaker from each group and from the other groups we take into account the nationalities who have already spoken. even then, it doesn't quite fit. i am doubly sorry that i had to withdraw the floor from several people because they had taken too much time to speak. it is also worth noting that the vast majority of those whose time was taken away because they spoke too long are no longer here, while those who kept their speaking time are almost all still here. you can tell from up here that some people talk too long and then leave right away. spontaneous speech
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i support the european parliament's clear resolution on the situation in syria. the eu must use every resource to engage diplomatically in the syrian war, which has so far claimed hundreds of thousands of lives and made the lives of millions more hell on earth. the resolution also aims to send a clear message to iran and russia, which are complicit in the killing of civilians through bombing and military operations. these cases belong in international courts. both countries must contribute to de-escalation and respect the ceasefire agreements. the un humanitarian aid must also be allowed into the country. i also call on turkey to immediately end its incursion into afrin in northern syria. when i myself attended a conference in libya last week on syria, among other things, the afd delegation from germany visited syria itself. the afd met with syrian leaders and wanted to point out in a very cynical way that syria was a safe country of origin. mr meuthen, it is perfidious and foreign policy dangerous for representatives of your party to try to hide their own deportation policy by making such a visit.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. they are demanding solutions for syria. we're talking about the same country. in what way would you not also consistently call for a new solution for cyprus?
i thank you very much, mr faria. first, i try to apply and interpret the rules faithfully. you can shake your finger for a long time, now listen to me. we have actually allocated five minutes for spontaneous exchange of views according to the agenda. that means five speakers. i regularly have the case that i have a significantly larger number of speakers than five, and then i have to make a choice. i'm very sorry to tell you that you didn't call first, nor did you wait two hours for... (interruptions by mr faria) you should just listen. i say you were the first to sign up, yes. but neither being the first to report nor waiting two hours is a criterion. let mr. marias explain that i have to be strict. and i have made it clear that in this case i will limit my selection to the nations that have not yet spoken. that is a criterion, it is fair, and you must also abide by it, even if you are a member of my group. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i think we all described the same situation. in your words i found the same frustration, the same horror, the same atrocities, the same counting of victims and years, and i think the analysis is clear and broadly shared. not unanimously, but broadly. we also indicated all the same things that need to happen to bring peace: a ceasefire, humanitarian access, accountability not impunity, political negotiations and the preservation of diversity. i could continue with a list that i am sure is reflected in the documents you are going to discuss and vote on and on which the european union is, and continues to be, the first player. i have heard different tones and different accents, but i have not heard different proposals on things we should do differently. what are we doing? we are, and will continue to be, the first humanitarian donor. i put this first because i keep insisting on this. it is about saving lives we are the convening power that for more than a year now has been the one gathering the international community, keeping – as some of you said – syria on top of the international agenda – there are not many others doing that at this moment – and continuing to work with the united nations to unite the international community in sustaining, or trying to sustain, intra—syrian talks. we are the only ones supporting the united syrian opposition in geneva, in brussels – everywhere – and giving concrete support to their preparation for entering into direct negotiations in geneva. we are the only ones that talk to all the international and regional players. some of you said that it is time that we started talking about this or about that with this actor or with that actor. we are already doing that. what do you think i discuss when i discuss with the turkish foreign minister, the iranian foreign minister, the russian foreign minister, the saudi foreign minister, the jordanian foreign minister or the us secretary of state? i could continue. we are doing this every single day and we are the only ones, apart from the united nations – and this is why we are working so closely together – who are talking to everyone with the same agenda, which is not our agenda. it is the syrian’s people agenda. we are the only ones that have no hidden agenda other than the end of the war in a way that is possible and inclusive, which means with a transition. because everybody knows that without a comprehensive political agreement any solution would last for what, one week, one month, six months? and then things would start again. so it is out of realism and also out of european interest because we share the same region that we are continuing to do this. let me say that sometimes i feel we have remained – i am not sure if this is proper english, but the interpreters will help me – the only voice of reason in this conflict. i don’t know if you noticed but common sense is not necessarily the natural thing to apply in this world today. so are we doing enough? we are doing all we can. is it producing results? not all the results we would like to see. i think we are doing the right things, the things that are in our capacity to do and there are many of them. i am not saying the european union role is limited. no, we have a huge role. if you took away all the things we are doing on the political, diplomatic and humanitarian side, the situation would be so much worse. it is not a justification. it is a tragedy, but it is like this. are you asking me if this always works? no, this doesn’t always work. some of you said this or that leader is not listening to us. i don’t know if you have noticed but we are not living in times in which many people listen to many others. we live in difficult times. we’re doing our best. i think we are achieving some results. it is frustrating because we have achieved many results, especially on saving lives and on stopping the fighting. we are far from reaching what we want, but we have to insist because we have been left with a big responsibility. again, our work does not always bring results but this is what we have to continue to do with unity, because this is something i am quite proud of. many say that we are divided, not only on this crisis but on most, if not all, the other things we are doing on external action and foreign policy. but not only have proved to be united as europeans, if you look at the un security council resolutions, we have helped build the unity of the international community. it is thanks to the european union member states and the work we have coordinated in new york that unanimity was reached in the security council. not only were the europeans united, but we managed to unite the international community, as we will do again in brussels on 24 and 25 april. we have to continue playing this role because there is no one else left doing this. is it enough? i repeat, no it is not enough. but we live in difficult times and we have to insist on doing this for as long as we do not manage to gather a sufficient international consensus and enough international support under the un umbrella to find a solution to this conflict.
the debate was closed by the tabling of seven motions for resolutions pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 march 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the eu's outlook for the first eu-cuba joint council (2018/2528 ((rsp)).
mr president, as previous speakers have already pointed out, the signing of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement established a new legal framework for the relations between the european union and cuba, while maintaining our eu’s interests. the agreement attempts to support human rights, to improve the living conditions and social rights of cuban citizens, and to strengthen trade between the eu and cuba. so far so good. but, obviously, the success of this agreement depends on its implementation and compliance with it. in my opinion, we should not just focus on economic relations, but work systematically in promoting the values of democracy and human rights, including the rule of law and good governance. i would like to point out that, in the past 15 years, this european parliament awarded the sakharov prize three times to cubans who fought for fundamental human rights. the castro regime represses nearly all forms of political dissent; its rank of freedom of expression is among the worst in the world. just to point out one recent example: last wednesday, the former presidents of colombia and bolivia, andrés pastrana and jorge quiroga, tried to travel to havana to receive an award on behalf of a democratic initiative of spain and the americas. they were detained at havana airport and denied entry to cuba. with these actions, the castro regime once again unsuccessfully tries to silence the voice of freedom and democracy in the country. a final remark: i regret, especially after the adoption of the european parliament’s july 2017 resolution, that it has so far not been possible to organise a visit of a committee on foreign affairs (afet) delegation to cuba. those responsible sit in havana. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – honourable colleague, i don’t know whether you expect an answer to this kind of question. i think it is completely inappropriate to compare the situation in a democracy like spain, a valued member state of the european union, with a regime in havana led by the castros, who have been suppressing people for decades. there are political prisoners and much more. you should go to cuba and look for yourself at what a devastating state this country is in. how dare you ask a question like that!
i would like to thank mr telička. i didn't admonish you because you were way past your prime. but you spoke too fast. it's impossible for the interpreters to translate. you should take this into account as someone who occasionally chairs the meeting yourself.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also believe that dialogue is better than no dialogue, especially when we have a difference of opinion. i have also been opposed to the us sanctions for a long time and i support the projects we have already started. but i think it's about more than just expanding the space for civil society. and it is not about human rights in the abstract, but about civil rights in practice. the cuban people belong to a nation which is truly part of the european cultural area, speaks spanish and should also develop a tradition of genuine democracy. it's the only country in the western hemisphere where opposition is per se illegal. and that's not going to happen! i think that if we are right to criticise venezuela and the regime there, we should be even more critical of cuba, because in venezuela the opposition is suppressed, but it is not per se illegal. i think what we saw on 11 march, this electoral farce, was a step backwards and not a step into the future. it is a political impossibility that these people are being held there. i saw a reuters picture of two young pioneers, maybe ten years old, standing in hab-eight position by the ballot boxes, and they were there to greet the voters. this is something that really reminds me of the past. i ask you, are you meeting with the opposition at this meeting? are you prepared to make a concrete demand that the next elections be democratic? that would be a concrete question.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, madam high representative! the samarkand joint communiqué shows that the successful development of the new central asia strategy requires at least two breaks from the eu's previous policy: the new strategy, if it is to be developed as desired together with the central asian partner countries, can only be achieved by a balance of interests reflecting the specific challenges and framework conditions on both sides. the current approach, which is aimed above all at enforcing and safeguarding primarily economic interests, is not a successful model. if the new strategy - as the council document calls it - is to be truly aligned with the sdgs, then our view of the level of development of countries will have to change. it will then be less about the state of infrastructure and the availability of natural resources, and more about the nature of relations which make a relevant contribution to solving the existing serious socioeconomic and environmental problems, and to the modernisation and democratisation of societies and governments.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you for your commitment to central asia. for too long, this has been a blank spot on the political map here in europe. we have heard about the zones of influence around it, russia, turkey, iran and especially china. of course, the impact is direct and massive. they say the heads of government welcome a closer partnership with us. but what do we have to offer? we are a soft power, we are urging them to reform, more democracy, more human rights, and china is making the big investments. so, besides soft power, is there anything else we can offer these countries? we must learn from the eastern neighbourhood that we look at countries individually. i think we need tailor-made programmes for each country. but i would also welcome what you said about us strengthening regional cooperation. we have done this successfully in africa, and we can do it in central asia too: if we give the example of the eu to the countries there, then they will be stronger overall.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would like to begin by commenting on the rules of procedure. that's why i just made the sign. so if you wouldn't count that against my speaking time. i would like to make a point of order and ask that the german translation of the report be revised and corrected. i do not think it is right. i refer to paragraph 18 of the report. the german translation reads: reflects the fact that the increase in real wages has lately lagged behind productivity growth, even though there have been improvements in the labour market; that doesn't match the english original. i would point this out because the original english wording was the subject of intense negotiations in the shadow rapporteurs' meetings. the english original notes a simultaneous development of these two trends, i.e. productivity growth was stronger than wage growth, and at the same time the situation improved on the labour market. the german translation, on the other hand, gives the impression that this is somehow a contradictory development or that there is a need to catch up with real wages. that is precisely what we wanted to prevent in the report. i think that the german translation should read: 'while improvements have been made'. i thank you for your patience with this point of order. i would like to begin my speech now, if i may. ladies and gentlemen, we have heard two very different opinions here, one from the bulgarian presidency and the other from mrs thyssen, and i was surprised at how different the outcome was. mrs thyssen, you painted everything in the most rosy colors. did you really say: "the banks are well capitalised"? i think there are a lot of people who see it differently. did you really say that unemployment was back to pre-crisis levels? i would ask you to look at the statistics. in italy, spain and greece, unemployment is now more than twice as high as it was ten years ago, more than twice as high as it was before the crisis. i don't understand how you can paint a picture like that. what mrs panayotova said was very interesting. she said: 'a great asset of the eu is the single market.' i agree with you completely. but what you did not say is: 'a great asset is the eu's other great integration project: the euro.' why didn't you say: 'the euro is a big asset'? i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. because if we look at the report that was adopted here, paragraph 2 says exactly what is wrong with the eurozone. it says: 'we have structural problems, we have insufficient growth in production potential, productivity, competitiveness, we lack ambitious and socially balanced structural reforms'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european semester is an annual process designed to improve the eu's economic and social performance. the main report this year is appropriate and we will support it. however, as the shadow rapporteur of the empl committee, i have only to assess the recommendations on employment and social policy. the euro crisis started eight years ago. it has caused lasting damage to europe and, in particular, to the member states of the euro zone. it has shown that in a very heterogeneous economic area a common currency for all countries and regions is not a sensible idea. states and regions have specific problems and need specific solutions. the proposals of my committee go in exactly the opposite direction. all the calls are aimed at increasing competences and responsibilities at eu level. wherever there is a problem, there is a call for centralisation and redistribution within europe. examples are the call for a european unemployment insurance scheme, more powers for the newly created european labour market authority and more funds for the social pillar. in no case is there any call for reducing eu competences or even saving resources. this is the wrong signal in terms of the money flow that is missing from brexit. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a good one.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first, the good news: the employment rate in the eu reached a level of more than 72% in the second half of 2017. that's 235 million people in work. the policy of solidarity and solidarity has borne fruit. the eu is on a growth path, as the european semester demonstrates. the bad news is that the situation varies greatly from one member state to another. this is why economic structures are to be examined. in order to avoid negative developments in the future, the aim is to collect experience from best practice and to identify positive drivers. one of the target groups for the problem is still the longterm unemployed. they're the ones that need to be in focus. we need more social investment. the average rate of youth unemployment in the eurozone is also too high, at 17.9%. we have been very vocal in the ep about the youth guarantee. the resulting youth employment initiative has now grown to eur 8.8 billion. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's social policy. let us face further challenges, such as the elimination of social inequalities and the reduction of the risk of poverty in large parts of the european union!
mr president, when the economic crisis hit us about a decade ago, euro humpty dumpty was sitting on a wall. we rushed to prevent him from falling and only just managed to do so. today he is still sitting there, starting to be in a better mood, as witnessed in the annual growth survey 2018. that is excellent news. by 2020, he may even start smiling. but just watching his cyclical mood swings is not enough; we need him to climb down that wall safely. in order to achieve this, we will need to complete banking union, both in terms of risk reduction and risk sharing, but more fundamentally we need greater clarity about who is in charge of what in the euro area. what should the role of monetary policy be in the next crisis? what should be the role of markets absorbing shocks? what should be the role of various elements of an enhanced european fiscal capacity? which of these elements should be automatic, which discretionary, and which ones tied to nationality and how? and how do we assure democratic legitimacy and accountability? many possible answers to these questions have already been put forward by the commission, by this house and by various expert groups. last year, president macron was elected. tomorrow, a new german government will be formed. the time has come finally to put the necessary elements together and help humpty dumpty climb down that wall safely.
the commission has already done so. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. i wish i had a more ambitious project. the requirements for a social europe must be identified and given top priority. the fight against unemployment and poverty is one of them, and the guarantee of a living wage on which people can really live. ten years after the outbreak of the european financial crisis, the low-wage sector continues to grow. poverty despite work is a scandal in europe, but unfortunately all too often a reality. europe can and must act in this respect. that is why my group has long called for an eu directive on fair working conditions for all workers, including those in precarious employment. this includes our call for a minimum income and for access to social protection for all. poverty and unemployment are not only dangerous for economic growth, but for the whole european project.
mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european commission has long stated that it wants to move away from a series of unrelated individual recommendations in the european semester towards a coherent pan-european approach. the package that was released last week gives me the feeling that in some places this could work. for the first time, the european commission has placed seven member states under surveillance for aggressive taxation in its country reports; the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which sets out the main priorities for the year. the european commission's naming of european tax evaders is a first. the commission has always maintained - i have a letter from commissioner moscovici - that there are no tax havens in the european union. i am glad that the commission has now carried out a reality check in the european semester. the commission is therefore already a step ahead of the council of ministers, which this week reduced its blacklist of tax havens by three more countries. i now expect the commission to make more than these observations. in its country-specific recommendations, the commission must clearly identify shortcomings and call for ambitious reforms. you can't stop halfway here. it is therefore all the more important that the country-specific recommendations are actually implemented. we in the european parliament are ready to help.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, we have taken note of the decision of the us president last week to impose tariffs on imports of steel and aluminium to the united states. we have also taken note of the possibility for allies to be excluded from the scope of such measures. we expect that the eu as a whole will be excluded, as a key political, security and economic partner that trades fairly with the united states. the eu and the us are strong historic allies. we share and promote fundamental values such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights. we also believe in, and stand for, an undistorted market economy, as well as open, rule-based and fair trade. in past years, both the us and the eu have faced increased imports and dumping of steel and aluminium – mostly from asia. to a large extent, this has been the consequence of global overcapacity, in particular in china, fuelled by massive domestic subsidies. as a response, both the eu and the united states have taken action against this in the form of anti-dumping measures on chinese steel and aluminium imports, which are allowed by the wto. thanks to this, our industry has been able to survive for the time being. the problem is not over yet, and this is why we have created a global forum on steel excess capacity in which the eu and us work together with china and others to address the root causes of the problem. this group aims at identifying and eliminating overcapacity and the support measures that fuel it. such work should be expedited. we should also better enforce wto rules and, ideally, update rules on subsidies which are incomplete and do not cover all situations well. this would provide stronger discipline on massive subsidies that can create distortions and hurt eu and us companies. the eu has already started to work with the us on this agenda. this is why we have created a trilateral cooperation on a level playing field with japan as well. the first meeting took place this weekend in brussels, on which commissioner malmström will debrief you. work will accelerate and intensify in the near future. we hope that china will understand the value of a strong rules-based order and join our effort, even if it means going further in the reform of their economic model, where the state still has a strong role. in the meantime, we sincerely hope that the process of exclusion of eu steel and aluminium exports from the scope of us measures will be expedited, transparent and smooth. we believe that our exports do not cause any threat to us security. commissioner malmström had a bilateral exchange with us trade representative lighthizer on this matter in the margins of the trilateral meeting this weekend and can tell you more about this.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, as you know, president trump signed off on import duties of 25% on steel and 10% on aluminium last week, under section 232 of the 1962 trade expansion act. this is a us law from the cold war and it was justified on national security grounds. these measures will enter into force on the night between 22 and 23 march 2018. we regret the adoption of these measures justifying tariffs on the basis of national security considerations. they risk undermining the multilateral trading system and, moreover, the european union – which is made up of friends and allies in nato – is not a threat to the national security of the us. during my meeting with us trade representative robert lighthizer this saturday, i made it clear to him that we are very disappointed indeed that long-standing allies and security partners from europe need to justify their exports of steel and aluminium and prove that they are not a threat to us security. we are of the firm view that the eu should be excluded as a whole from the section 232 measures announced next week, and i made this very clear to ambassador lighthizer. unfortunately, i did not leave saturday’s meeting with sufficient clarity regarding the exclusions. we are in contact with my us counterpart to obtain more clarity as soon as possible and we have been told that the us trade representative will publish a more detailed outline of the procedures for the exclusions very soon on their website. this would be very damaging to transatlantic relations and to the global rules system, which is based on a common global order that we have constructed together with our us partners. if the eu is not exempted from the measures, there will have to be a firm and resolute, but proportionate, response. we are continuing the preparations to ensure that we can respond, in line with wto rules, in the event that we are not excluded from the scope of the section 232 measures. last week, the college of commissioners discussed three strands of work for future measures that would defend our interests and those of the trading system. they will be fully in line with international obligations and in accordance with wto procedures. the first strand is that we would exercise our rights in the wto. we are talking to friends and partners across the world who are also affected by the section 232 decisions and who would be impacted by this measure. we are seeing if we can coordinate our rights in the wto. but wto proceedings take time, so we are also looking at other, more immediate, measures. the second track would be to protect our market from potentially significant trade diversion. by the us’s own assessment, steel imports should be reduced by 13 million tonnes, and there could be a surge of steel or aluminium imports into the eu following us tariffs. we are therefore preparing to put in our own safeguard measures while maximising our openness. we urge our trading partners to do likewise. we do not want to encourage further closing of the steel and aluminium markets. we suspect that the us’s steps are not actually based on security considerations, but that they are economic safeguard measures in disguise. we are therefore entitled to use the wto safeguard agreement to rebalance the benefits we have granted to the us in the past. these allow for measures corresponding to the economic loss suffered, and we are discussing different us products. so these are the three tracks we are discussing. we are ready to act in a proportionate way according to wto rules. we do not want things to escalate. we do not share the view that trade wars are good and that they are easy to win. on the contrary, they are very bad for the world and they are very easy to lose. so things should not be escalated; we will manoeuvre carefully, but of course we need to protect the interests of the citizens and our jobs. dialogue with the us is intense. it is continuing this week, and we hope that very soon we can report to you in more detail on the outcome of this. thank you very much, and i am looking forward to the debate. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the epp group has requested today's debate and has been gratefully supported by the other members. the signal we need today is that the european parliament fully supports the european commission. we are united, we are united as europeans and we want to respond together to the challenge of the steel and aluminium tariffs. my group, the european people's party, is in favour of free world trade. we have documented and demonstrated this in recent votes, for example on ceta, and we know that in the last few decades trade has led to the world becoming richer as a whole. south korea, turkey, many countries in africa, even china, have benefited massively from world trade, and the world has become more prosperous overall. and europe's prosperity is also consciously based on trade. we are competitive, we have good products, we are creative, and the world envies us for these products. the third positive argument for world trade is the impact on consumers: the choice is greater, the products are cheaper and everyone benefits. that's why i'm voting for world trade. the second thing that is important to us is to ask: what is happening in the united states, and how do we evaluate the measures? the epp group also sees no justification for the current measures against the european union. what security interests are involved? there is no dumping in the european union. the measures are unjustified and affect jobs. the epp will not tolerate this. a third point is important to us, that we are discussing adequate measures now, as cecilia malmström has presented them. we in the epp group believe that the measures being discussed in the commission are adequate measures. we must not overreact, but we must act decisively. so we think this is going in the right direction. we need unity and determination now. and four, we need to talk. we must argue and convince each other, for example, that in the united states 33 000 jobs are in steel production, but over 180 000 jobs are in steel processing. so donald trump is also hurting his jobs. and we finally have to talk about the real problem, which is china. we need to provide a cover for the european market, direct measures, so that there is no overcapacity and no more dumping on the european market. and we must be able to talk with the united states about china and its overproduction. if we compare the iphones with the bmws, there's going to be a laughing third, and that's china. we can't let that happen. so thanks also to paul ryan and many friends in the united states who, thank god, started the discussion. and finally, we should also see the opportunities in these debates with the united states. the world is confused about what's happening in washington. this is true for mexico, for canada, for japan, for mercosur. they are confused. and that is why the european union can now be the region that offers partnership with the rest of the world. we feel in the talks that there is a new openness. if donald trump wants to build walls, then we europeans must build even stronger bridges.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it is clear that mr trump has imposed these blockade tariffs for purely domestic reasons. the pennsylvania election, the mid-term review election in november, that's the reason. even under american law, it is highly controversial whether these measures are covered by this 1962 cold war law with national security at all. there'll be some lawsuits. but it cannot be that domestic considerations will ultimately undermine international law. and that's the point. it has imposed measures on the rest of the world, 25% on steel and 10% on aluminium against all importers. that is why it is crucial for us social democrats to return to the path of the law. this means that we are sending a clear signal, and we support the commission's action, but also strong joint action with the partners who are also affected, such as japan, brazil, mexico and other countries. we must say to mr trump together that we are for the rule of law and not for the rule of the stronger. it is therefore necessary to act together here and also to discuss with the critical forces in the united states that this domestically motivated action be stopped by the american congress.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. yes, mr katainen, you are absolutely right that the current debate on the trade conflict is about much more than just the us plans to increase tariffs on steel and aluminium. we live in a global economy and we have to face it, both in terms of production, sales, sales, trade - fair world trade - and in terms of social and related environmental conditions and impacts. if the time comes to act with moderation, then it cannot be an eye for an eye or everyone against everyone, but it must be about really fighting together with the usa, china and other producers in the global, international forums that we have in the wto, in what they call the steel forum, about how this global world economy must be organized. that is why i agree with you. let us call the wto arbitration tribunal to decide what the us president will decide in the end after yesterday's election and the vote in pittsburgh! let us prepare for the rapid deployment of our wto-compliant safeguards of eur 2.8 billion if a us market lockdown imposed by trump in the meantime leads to the diversion of surpluses to the european steel market! but above all, let us look for common solutions there! because it has to be about solutions for the people who are actually suffering from the development of world trade. there is poverty, there is social degradation, there is environmental destruction on all continents. we cannot allow trump to use these grievances in his own country to selfishly advance his agenda. i believe that we must implement this solution together, and in that sense you have the support of the gue/ngl.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to commend the commission for its prudent and wise behaviour in the last few days, rather than succumbing to the temptation to agree with the american president's rhetoric. at the same time, we cannot just sit back and hope that if we do nothing, the storm will pass. we are in a different situation from 2002, when we did not react to the measures of the bush presidency and simply let them go. it is therefore right that the eu is now discussing countermeasures which should not only be measured and considered but which should also be in line with the wto. the wto rules give us sufficient scope to react appropriately in this situation. the protectionist strategy of donald trump will not work in the medium term in an era of globally interconnected value chains, and here again the message to all colleagues is that protective tariffs and protectionism are to the detriment of the workers themselves. so let's stay global and open-minded here. the problem is not between the us and the eu, it is in very different parts of the world. (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. trump wants to make his country big, but he's making it small. the protection of industries which are shrinking because of the intense competition in the world does not make a country strong, but uncompetitive. mr lange had pointed out which jobs would be affected if we were to raise the price of steel and which jobs would be lost. trump is hurting his country. and if we take retaliatory measures, however proportionate, i don't think we're going to get anywhere. mr. trump is reacting like a defiant child and saying, "okay, i'll do more". we should adopt a different strategy, namely the strategy of lowering tariffs. why are american cars taxed at 10% but only at 2.5% in the us? let's just lower the 10%. who's afraid of american cars in this country? this is a sign, let us do what ttip says and make it unilateral. because if it is true that cheap imports increase competitiveness, then we can only benefit from it. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not sure i'm ready to go. i have listened with great interest to your proposal for a unilateral reduction in customs duties. do you agree that it was precisely in the context of the ttip negotiations with the united states that we wanted to reduce not only the tariffs on cars but almost all the tariffs between the european union and the united states, and that these negotiations are failing at the moment mainly because of the lack of willingness to negotiate on the part of the us president? secondly, do you agree with me that we cannot unilaterally lower tariffs on cars from america, but that we must always lower tariffs for everyone, and that of course the competitive situation in countries with low social and environmental standards, like china or india, is very, very difficult for us, and therefore we would of course mess up everything if we unilaterally lowered tariffs on cars?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to tell you. i agree with you about two-thirds of the time, but i can't quite make sense of your latest conclusions. if tariff reductions are really good for a country's competitiveness, then we should do it - no matter what mr trump thinks about it. i think it is right that we should send a signal: we do not want to raise tariffs, we want to lower them. that's a sign that mr. trump understands. if we say: we want to make europe bigger not through protectionism but through free trade - that is the language that mr trump may understand.
mr president, the transatlantic relationship is much more than steel, peanut butter and orange juice. it is a profound strategic, political and economic bond, built by brave leaders and visionaries. currently, president trump is behaving neither like a leader, nor a visionary. the truth is that he won’t bring back jobs to the us steel and aluminium sector in any significant numbers. his confrontational actions, if not stopped, will only cost more jobs on both sides of the atlantic. let’s be honest, it is not the european union that is treating the us badly as in the case of most unfair trading practices china is to blame. if the eu were resorting to unfair practices then president trump could have worked it out with the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, but he was the one who stopped the negotiations. he is responsible for our still having different tariffs on cars and he is responsible for our seeing almost no progress in recent years. dear president trump, if you are ready to become a world leader in tackling unfair trade methods, you will have to look for allies, and you might find them here. i am a member of the european parliament, working every day for prosperous trade relations between our two continents – and by the way you, mr trump, can’t fire me for doing that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are all outraged by president trump. how many times? some particularly outraged voices have even claimed that donald trump is in the process of turning the us into a rogue state. it can't be what it is. it is. i say we don't wallow in helpless rage. what we're seeing now is just the beginning. donald trump actually believes that the world trade order is a zero-sum game. he wants a world trade order that breaks with the existing one. he wants a world trade order in which the us can dictate and the rules are then adjusted to suit its interests. the ruthlessness with which he is currently acting against the allies is meant to express his determination to do so. but it is not addressed to us, it is to china. trump is going with the chinese approach. there is a chinese proverb that says, "kill the chicken to scare the monkey". we're supposed to be the chicken. i believe we must avoid a trade war and at the same time defend european interests. this is undoubtedly a most difficult task. this includes taking the matter to the wto arbitration tribunal, as the commission has proposed. it also means that we are sending a signal that we are not going to let the united states give us everything, that we are not just turning the other cheek. i hope that you, commissioner, and the whole commission, will see the unity of the member states behind your approach. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i wish you a happy hand.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we are not responsible for the chinese overcapacity, nor are we responsible for the lack of competitiveness of the american steel industry. therefore, these us measures against us are unjustified, wrong and harmful to both sides. but, ladies and gentlemen, we have a responsibility to work with all our partners in the world trade organisation to ensure that global trade continues to be governed by the rule of law and not by the rule of the stronger. it is therefore good that the european commission is engaging in talks. it is therefore good that the european commission is proposing countermeasures which are clear, but which are prudent and do not allow the situation to escalate further. president trump, i call upon you: dear mr. president, tear down this wall. tear down those measures which are harming the transatlantic relations, and tear down those unjustified measures against your close friends and allies.
mr president, interestingly, the tariffs are not based on the basic trade legislation from the 1980s, but on the national security act of 1962. the expected reaction of the commission would be that we go to the world trade organization (wto) and we might indicate retaliatory measures. but couldn’t it be a tactical measure that this is being based on the 1962 act? this is because we are not quite sure whether or not, in terms of the wto, if we lose the case based on national security concerns, then this could make the wto system explode. if the measures were based on the trade act of 1989, then a wto decision would have vertical effect on this specific measure, but if you lose the case on that measure, based on the national security angle, then, in principle, there would be a horizontal effect and that would make the system explode. i am just asking what your perception is of the tactical aspect of what mr lighthizer is going to do.
in writing. i support the commission's approach. the first step is to seek dialogue, as is customary between partners. but if it fails, i support the possible countermeasures announced by the european commission last week. europe is competitive, we produce high-quality products, we are inventive and creative, and therefore we do not allow ourselves to be pressured.
prime minister of portugal mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank president tajani for giving me the opportunity to address the european parliament to discuss the future of europe with you. it is a great pleasure for me to return to this house, where i served, albeit briefly, as a member and as vice-president, and which has contributed so much, as the only institution directly elected by the citizens, to improving transparency and democracy in europe. i also welcome the presence of the president of the commission, whose vision, pragmatism and experience and his europeanism have helped us to find solutions, to overcome divisions and to strengthen our union. in recent years, the european union has been rocked by a succession of crises unprecedented in its history and that have shaken it to its foundations from the great economic recession of 2008 to brexit and the dramatic refugee crisis in the summer of 2016. we are now, it is true, in a moment of appeasement. we can finally celebrate the return of economic growth and we have prevented brexit from becoming a principle of disintegration. in any case, there is no reason for complacency. the european union must live up to its historic responsibility. in bratislava, member states committed themselves to continue to work together to make the union more attractive and worthy of the trust and support of our citizens. in brussels, president juncker presented an ambitious white paper on the future of europe to this parliament on behalf of the commission. in gothenburg we proclaimed the 20 principles of the social pillar, and the leaders' agenda, proposed by president tusk, has allowed for a frank and direct debate between the heads of state and government. the question today is very simple: we are not going to be able to do that, but we are going to have to do it. will we have the courage to make choices and to give the union the means and instruments to meet the challenges we face? perhaps because portugal has returned to europe after 48 long years of dictatorship and 13 years of anachronistic colonial wars in africa, and because we have experienced the tensions of the revolutionary period that founded our democracy, portugal knows well that being european is not a mere geographical or historical coincidence. more than a single currency, more than an internal market, europe is above all a community of values. to be european is to belong to a system of values. peace, unconditional defence of democracy, the rule of law, freedom, equality, the dignity of the human person and solidarity - these are the values that brought portugal to europe. it was the will to consolidate the democracy that had been regained and to be able to share a common space of freedom, security, peace and prosperity. it was with this view that mário soares signed portugal's application for membership of the then eec in 1977 and signed the treaty of accession in 1985. i would therefore like to take this opportunity to thank president tajani once again for the tribute which this parliament has paid to this great european and former member of parliament. sharing a common home, sharing the same values does not, of course, mean renouncing our own identity or the freedom of each to make his own choices. the future of europe is not compatible with any single thought. democracy in europe cannot be divided by an idea of 'there is no alternative'. it means, on the contrary, agreeing amongst all a set of common rules of coexistence and giving each one the freedom to be able to follow his own path, in accordance with these common rules and for the benefit of all. like a big family, living with 28 or 27 in the same house is not always easy. so rules are necessary. but these rules do not serve to unify policies. the rules are there to ensure that common commitments can be achieved through the different policies that the electorate chooses, democratically and sovereignly. in portugal, we have defined an alternative to austerity policy, focused on more economic growth, more and better jobs and greater equality. the recovery in incomes has restored confidence to economic agents, allowing the strongest economic growth since the beginning of the century, sustained growth in private investment, exports and employment. it is true that we have done things differently, but we have followed the rules and we have, in fact, more solid public finances today than we had three years ago. we exited the excessive deficit procedure in 2017. we had the lowest deficit in the 43 years of our democracy last year and last week the european commission removed portugal from the list of countries with excessive macroeconomic imbalances. (applause) but most important of all, the assertion of democratic sovereignty has restored confidence in democratic institutions and in the european union, as the latest barometer shows, with a clear portuguese support for the european union. so we are not having an existential crisis. it is in the union, and with all those who want it, that we wish to build our future. and we have countless challenges ahead of us: climate change, instability at our external border, terrorism, globalisation, the digital transition and migration. but we must be aware that none of the major challenges we face will be better solved outside the union, by each member state on its own, however populous or prosperous it may be. only the european union as a whole will be able to lead concerted action at global level to implement the paris agreement, which is vital to respond to the climate change that threatens humanity's very existence. only by being united in permanent structured cooperation can we assume an increased responsibility, in solidarity and in complementarity with nato, in the face of the instability on our borders which threatens our peace and security. only together can we strengthen police cooperation, judicial cooperation and the exchange of data between our intelligence services to counter the terrorism that spreads fear on the streets of our cities. only the union will give strength to a trade policy which can help to regulate global markets and protect the high social, environmental and food safety standards which we want to preserve by regulating globalisation, which is challenging the sustainability of the european social model. only the development of the social pillar and the single market and joint investment in the knowledge society and the energy transition will enable us to ensure growth and decent jobs, the only effective response to the anxieties that the digital transition and automation are placing on the future of work. (applause) only at european level can we tackle the root causes of the problem of migration, which is changing the balance of our societies, by promoting inclusive growth and sustainable development, peace and human rights in africa, by cooperating with countries of origin and transit, by following the call by the united nations secretary-general, antónio guterres, for a new global compact on migration, just as only by acting in solidarity with each other can we ensure the defence of our common external border against the networks of organised crime that promote trafficking in human beings and by sharing in solidarity the humanitarian duty to ensure international protection for all those in need. yes, it is true that all these challenges exist and that we have to face them. not with big institutional debates or paralysing treaty revisions the key is to define what you want to do. the institutional architecture is only a tool that will enable us to make it happen. reversing the order is counterproductive and divides us on the accessory before uniting us on the essential. and time is of the essence. our focus must be on the citizens, listening to them and restoring their confidence in our ability to meet and overcome each of these challenges. what distinguishes democratic politics from populism is that democratic politics does not exploit fears or live on problems. on the contrary, democratic politics responds to problems, combats fear and anxiety and restores hope to the future of all citizens. globalisation is not met by closing borders or erecting walls, by retreating into protectionist logic or a xenophobic drift. we must make it clear that these are not and will never be europe's options. the european union will only gain if it continues to project the vision of a europe open to the world, from japan to mercosur. what globalisation requires is that we are able to invest in skills, innovation and infrastructure that put us in global networks, and only an economically, socially and territorially cohesive society can ensure sustained competitiveness. it is our political responsibility to respond to the legitimate aspirations of the european citizens, but we will only be able to do so if we know how to build a real union, more economically, socially and politically cohesive. to make this possible, two very clear priorities are needed: completing economic and monetary union - the most ambitious project we have ever managed to put into practice - and providing the union with resources commensurate with its responsibilities and the challenges we have to face. ladies and gentlemen, convergence is the key to european unity. only it can guarantee the necessary stability of the euro area, ensuring that risks are reduced and benefits are shared. the financial crisis we are experiencing has exposed the weaknesses of the single currency. in the face of an emergency, we avoided the disintegration that once threatened us, largely thanks to the informed action of the european central bank, and we created, with the juncker plan, a new instrument to support investment, which, with the contribution of this parliament, would even be strengthened. however, even with these advances, the structural weaknesses of the euro area remain unaddressed. asymmetries and imbalances between its members reduce potential growth and threaten the stability of the single currency. as long as economic and monetary union remains incomplete, the risks of new crises will be greater. we need to take advantage of this moment of growth and optimism in the markets to give a new impetus to economic and monetary union, which strengthens convergence and prevents new crises. (applause) economic and monetary union can never function satisfactorily on the basis of its monetary pillar alone. in order to save time, i shall not go into the issues of banking union which we have started and which we must conclude, the need to clarify obscure budgetary rules or the evolution of the european stability mechanism. i shall concentrate on what i consider essential to optimise the euro area as a monetary union, by correcting asymmetries and strengthening convergence. any mature monetary union has a budgetary capacity, and it is in this sense that i have been advocating the creation of a budgetary capacity specific to the euro area, linked to the exercise of the european semester. this budgetary capacity could serve as a stabilisation tool against external shocks, but its primary objective should be investment, providing the country-specific recommendations, as consolidated in the national reform programmes, with financial instruments for their implementation. it is not a question of establishing a transfer union or financing mechanisms for national inefficiencies. i want to be clear: i'm not advocating permanent transfers. the convergence mechanism i am proposing, somewhat similar to the reform instrument recently referred to by the commission, should be based on a contractual basis, so as to implement country-specific reforms, taking account of each country's own structural constraints, which will improve its growth potential, with quantified and timetabled targets, the achievement of which is conditional on the phased transfer of the funding tranches. for example, looking at the 'country report' for portugal, our priority should be to invest in education, lifelong learning, research and development and innovation, setting success metrics and timetables for achievement. convergence support is the right measure to hold each member state accountable for carrying out the reforms it needs. it is the best instrument for ensuring the stability of the euro area and for combining economic growth with budgetary discipline. it is a question of creating incentives for reform, positive conditionality and not punitive conditionality. it is that we cannot continue to look at the euro area as a collection of economies competing with each other and then with the rest of the world. we must treat the euro area as an integrated space, whose prosperity and cohesion benefit all its members, where the added value of the whole depends on the success of each and every one of us. (applause) i would like to thank you. the lasting and sustainable stabilisation of the euro area is the first condition for building europe's future on solid foundations. the second condition is that we should provide the union with a budget that is tailored to its needs and its ambitions. in its recent report on the next multiannual financial framework, the european parliament argued that more european policies and programmes can only be achieved with more resources, not less. we are following this parliament and we are entering this new round of negotiations on the multiannual financial framework with a clear position. we must strengthen the union's own resources and we need to increase the contributions of all the member states. portugal is ready to increase its contribution and supports the creation of new own resources, as proposed in the mario monti report, which has been the subject of numerous suggestions. only in this way can we honour the commitment we have made to our citizens to ensure greater security in the face of climate change, external threats and terrorism, and the future of our social model, employment and the management of migration, without sacrificing policies that are already part of the identity of the european union, such as the common agricultural policy or cohesion policy. it would be a grave mistake to sacrifice these policies. the success of the common agricultural policy is not limited to ensuring food security in europe, just as the success of cohesion policy is not limited to the contribution it has made to the economic and social modernisation of our territories. its greatest asset was to bring the european union into the daily lives of its citizens, to make europe something concrete in people's lives rather than an abstraction. with the agricultural policy and the cohesion policy, europe has reached every village, every hamlet, every part of our territory, from the big cities to the outermost regions. we must tell the truth to our citizens. we cannot ask for more from europe without giving more to europe. we cannot give europe more responsibilities without increasing our own contributions and its own resources. but we cannot, of course, simply want more, and more, and more. we must also be able to do things differently and do things better, exploiting the indispensable complementarity of policies and instruments and improving their efficiency. between competitiveness and cohesion, there is no longer any room for a europe of productivity and a europe of cohesion. we need a more competitive economy in the global market and a more cohesive society at home. but we must also be aware that agricultural policy must make a greater contribution to tackling climate change and cohesion policy must contribute to preventing radicalisation in the urban peripheries and must focus more on people as the instrument of our social pillar. similarly, the objective of cohesion cannot be absent from programmes such as horizon 2020 or the european defence fund, which should not exacerbate the asymmetries between our economies. only if all these policies are complementary will we be able to achieve greater convergence. this is why convergence must be the criterion of added value, which must be present across all policies and instruments, which must complement each other, reinforcing the potential for aggregate success. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are all aware of the difficulty of these debates, both on the completion of economic and monetary union and on the adoption of the next multiannual financial framework. but nothing that is difficult today is gained by being postponed. on the contrary, delay will make things even more difficult, because it will reduce the confidence that citizens have in our ability to make decisions and to respond to their needs, desires and aspirations. we must therefore do everything, absolutely everything, to bring these debates to a close during the current term of office of the present european parliament. (applause) this is a responsibility for all of us. we have to live up to our times. i am speaking, of course, for portugal. you can count on us. once again, as always, portugal is counting on europe, and europe can count on portugal. the challenges we face are very demanding, but whenever we doubt our ability to overcome them together, let us remember and be inspired by a great woman, simone veil, the first president of the european parliament directly elected by the citizens: i am, and i remain, an optimist. life has taught me that with time, progress always wins. cest long, cest slow, but in the end, i trust. (applause) i would like to thank you.
president of the commission. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to be taking part in this third debate on the future of europe in the presence and under the chairmanship of my friend mr antónio, prime minister of portugal. i was in portugal at the end of october last year and had the great honour of being invited by the president of the portuguese republic to exchange views with the members of the council of state on the same subject, the future of europe. i also had the privilege of talking to the prime minister and in a citizens' dialogue with the student citizens of coimbra about the major european issues and their hopes for the future of the union. that is to say, this subject rightly occupies the minds of our portuguese friends, not only their political leaders, but i think i can say that it also occupies a large part of portuguese society. portugal is a country i love very much, and i have spent one of the most important moments of my life there. portuguese people are very present in my home country, luxembourg: 20% of the luxembourg population is of portuguese origin. almost all my neighbors are portuguese. it is a joy every day to hear them speak portuguese. anecdote: very often, when i was prime minister in my country, our portuguese friends would stop me in the streets and on the sidewalks to say to me: 'mr prime minister, there are too many foreigners in luxembourg', which clearly proves that the integration of portuguese citizens in luxembourg is very successful. (laughter) i will also never forget that it was the portuguese people who, in april 1974, ended almost half a century of oppression and dictatorship, thus opening a peaceful path to democracy. this event has brought relief and hope to our entire continent. second anecdote: as a young man, i participated in a demonstration outside the portuguese consulate. towards the end of the dictatorship in your country, and to this day, the grand duchy police are investigating the following case: someone threw a stone at one of the windows of the consulate general, the police have not found the person responsible: he is in front of you. (laughter) portugal, after the cinnamon revolution, immediately and logically turned to europe, under the inspired leadership of mário soares, to anchor its young democracy in a solidary whole. we share the same ambitions, peace - too often forgotten and without which nothing else would be possible - and respect for the rule of law and fundamental rights. these are the universal values on which our union was built and it is on the preservation of these values that we must build the future of our union, for let us never forget that none of these values - peace, democracy, the rule of law - is a matter of course. we must constantly defend them and i know that we can count on our portuguese friends who have always shown that they know how to give life and colour to our common values and in particular to european solidarity. the reception of refugees by the portuguese people and the portuguese government is a clear example of this. portugal has done more than its share, relocating many refugees from greece and italy, which is an example that others should follow. (applause) i would like to thank in recent years portugal has been particularly hard hit by the economic and financial crisis and i am pleased to see that portugal is now showing good economic results. portugal was removed from the excessive deficit procedure last year and last week the commission concluded that macroeconomic imbalances are no longer excessive. who would have believed that a few years ago? who would have thought? the truth is that the country has gone from a deficit level of 10 to 11 percent to a level of less than 2 percent. unemployment is in the process of being corrected downwards and the employment rate is rising considerably by the day. the truth is that these advances have required the portuguese throughout these painful years of considerable effort which other europeans do not always appreciate. it is a beautiful collective performance that makes every portuguese proud. i would therefore like to pay tribute to the portuguese people, to those who have led the country through the years of crisis and who have led it towards correcting the imbalances, and above all to the portuguese people, especially the most modest. (applause) especially to the humblest of the portuguese who have contributed with admirable courage and with certain success to this great national effort. i would also like to stress that these remarkable results prove wrong those who have criticized the european commission for applying the stability pact with more wisdom, or even intelligence and heart by giving it a reading grid that takes into account the many social challenges in portugal. the situation has improved, but there is still work to be done. it is now a matter of consolidating the efforts made so as to put an end to these dark years once and for all and look resolutely to the future. yes, portugal still has imbalances, but i think they can be controlled. greater productivity growth remains essential to improving competitiveness and reducing debt. portugal knows that it can rely on the commission and our structural reform support programme to deliver on its necessary reforms. i am working with the prime minister on the definition of a pilot project to improve the skills and competences of adults with low levels of education. and i have confidence in the determination of the portuguese authorities, the responsible political forces, to correct the remaining structural weaknesses which may still impede the full economic development of the country. these are issues that i have always discussed frankly, openly, amicably with the prime minister and i intend to continue this sometimes difficult but always frank, friendly and open effort because i have always believed that the future of europe cannot be built by humiliating countries, by not respecting the dignity of peoples. i wanted, in the case of portugal, as in other cases, to replace the anticipatory sanction with constant dialogue, which leads, as the case of portugal shows, to better results. (applause) i would like to thank the prime minister's speech to this house showed that we share the same dream, the same love for europe and that we all believe that the european union remains the best future for ourselves and for future generations. in the coming months, therefore, we should complete together the work begun in recent years on the energy union, the digital union - the prime minister has spoken about this - the capital markets union and, of course, the deepening of the economic and monetary area, a subject on which we in the commission have a wide cross-section of views with our portuguese friends. this is particularly true of the need to put in place new instruments to ensure the stability, resilience of the euro area and to strengthen its internal convergence. the commission has made very specific proposals in this respect, including a new instrument to support national reforms and a stabilisation mechanism which will enable us to cope with major asymmetric shocks, because it will be our duty, ladies and gentlemen, to give the next financial perspective the means to match our ambitions. as antónio pointed out, we have many responsibilities, old and new, whether in immigration, defence policy, research, innovation or education. i believe that in portugal the national budget represents 43% of gross national income and the share of the european union is 1%, which means that out of every 100 euros, 43 euros go to the ministry of finance in lisbon, of which only one euro goes to europe. i welcome the prime minister's strong desire, reaffirmed today, to increase portugal's contribution to the european budget so that we can live up to our responsibilities. this is yet another portuguese example to be followed by - i hope - many others. but we know that often difficult choices remain to be made. the europe we leave to our children will depend on these choices. it is up to us to decide now what europe we want for tomorrow. let me take just one example: the research and innovation programme 'horizon 2020', which is not entirely innocent since commissioner carlos moedas, who has the good fortune and the happiness of being a portuguese national and is proud to be a commissioner, is in charge of it and he is doing a job - i would say - absolutely remarkable. but it is also a key programme for the growth and development of european enterprises. (applause) i would like to thank we are currently spending €80 million on this programme - the one i have just mentioned. if we decide to increase this to 120 million in the next financial framework, this would create 420 000 additional jobs by 2040 and increase gdp by 0.3%. if we go up to 160 million, that would mean creating 650 000 jobs by 2040 and a gdp growth of 0.5%. if we do this - and i think we should - the european union will become one of the world's leading players in research and innovation. finally, it goes without saying that the coming months will be crucial for the future of europe. we shall be judged on our deeds and not on our words, and portugal, which has been a part of all european developments since its accession and even before, has shown that it respects what it says, whatever the difficulties, and they were great. the future of europe also depends on portugal. (applause from the left)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the mr president, i would like to thank you for your kind words. because the president has indicated that the range of topics is so great, we too will always concentrate in the speeches. the last time i was here, my croatian colleague andrej plenković, i spoke on behalf of the epp group about the christian values of this continent. today i want to talk about another issue on this continent, which is the sense of fear that people on this continent feel, the fear of loss that is there, towards migration, globalization, climate change, the changes that people are facing. europe is in the midst of a debate between hope and fear, between partnership and selfishness, between europe and nationalism. it's the debate we have on this continent. the history of portugal actually gives us a good indication. five hundred years ago, when the chinese burned their fleet and turned themselves in, portuguese men like vasco da gama set out into the world, discovered the route to india, and profited from it for centuries. your country has benefited from it for centuries. even in the short history of the last few years, portugal has proven that taking off, that shaping, that building bridges is the right way to go in the financial crisis. it has already been raised by jean-claude juncker whether portugal has given the right answers. i would like to mention one name specifically, one who has helped to shape this, namely your predecessor, pedro passos coelho, who has played a decisive role in portugal's coming to this point today and in the economic data that we have, that economic growth is there. the fact that portugal is on this road to success is a common success, and therefore congratulations! putting the sails right, that's the job. so, if we're going to go back to this question of fear, i want to look back at the history of the continent, how we've dealt with the great fear issues of people. the question of being poor, the question of being poor in old age, the question of not having insurance for sickness. we have developed the idea of a social market economy 150 years ago, ladies and gentlemen, where the state takes care of absorbing people's fears. i believe that we have a duty today to rethink how we can achieve this social market economy in a globalised world, in a european world. we believe in the social partners. we are seeing, however, that the corporations are european in their structure and the trade unions, unfortunately, are not yet organised in a european way to really provide a counterweight. ladies and gentlemen, we have allocated over 86 billion euros in the european budget to the social fund to combat youth unemployment. for us as the epp, social policy is not primarily about providing, but about enabling. that is why it is right that we invest the money towards education, towards training, towards skills - by the way, not only for the young people but also for the 50+ generation, for the older generation, who often have difficulty in the labour markets, for the disabled, for all the people who need support. modern social policy is also modern tax policy, where craftsmen pay their bills, pay their taxes and the big corporations stay out of it. mr president, the problem of unanimity in the council on tax policy is one of the great problems, one of the great tasks. the fact that we are re-conceptualising social policy means more common legislation in tax policy. almost 9% of workers in europe currently do not have enough to live on, falling under the risk of poverty people who go to work. that is why every worker must be able to live with dignity from what he earns. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. let me say this last thing: the biggest social issue for us europeans is perhaps not even an internal european issue, but a global one. pope francis once wrote in one of his first encyclicals, this economy that we have today is killing. a very strong indictment of what we have as an economic system at the moment. that is why we europeans, as we move into the future, must consider how this economy, this economic model, will develop. i would argue that in future we should not only talk about tariffs or customs duties when we are discussing trade issues, but that we should also talk about minimum social standards when we are discussing trade agreements. if we can ensure that european supermarkets no longer sell products for which children have had to work, then that would be a great thing for europe. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not mr prime minister costa, i learned today that we agree that the eu and the euro system are not working very well at the moment. but i'm afraid that's where our commonalities end. while the grand coalition of pro-europeans here wants centralisation, common funds and, in the end, the eu superstate, i think this is the wrong way to go. centralization is damaging to individual responsibility and creativity. europe needs self-responsibility and creativity, not just in the commodity markets. unfortunately, we see that market players are being burdened by more and more regulation and at the same time more and more state industrial planning is being operated from brussels. europe also needs political competition. that's why brexit is not just a threat. it is also an opportunity because the british people need to be creative in solving their problems. this creativity can be a positive example for us and thus benefit us all. it is important that switzerland, which is at the heart of europe and is not a member of the eu, shows our citizens every day that it is possible to achieve exceptionally good economic results without the eu and without the euro. for us in germany, switzerland is now even important because there are german-language media outlets there that have not submitted to the political correctness that is ubiquitous in our country and that paint a different picture of reality. alternative facts may be a verbal invention of the united states, but we have had to put up with them for a long time in our countries, for example on the euro or on migration. it is good that we have many different voices in europe, which also preserve media competition against the dominance of the state media. as you can hear, i've mentioned competition three times. competition in the goods markets, where europe is not innovating enough. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and about competition for better information and media, where too many journalists still conform to the prevailing mainstream. the so-called pro-europeans, who are doing more harm to our continent than they may realize, are coming under increasing pressure, as the elections in many countries have shown in recent months. and we are very pleased that within the eu, under the leadership of the netherlands, denmark, finland, ireland, sweden and the three baltic states, there is a resistance to this centralisation. that really encourages me. prime minister costa! i am and have been and always will be an incorrigible optimist. and i'm going to be optimistic that in the end, reason will prevail.
mr president, in two sentences: what the colleague just did amounted to hate speech. i want you to look into that. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, with reference to rule 190(4), we would like to postpone this vote. before this vote, the econ coordinators tried to get additional parliamentary control rights for our house in the nomination of ecb board members. unfortunately, we have received a very disappointing answer from the eurogroup today regarding our demands for more gender diversity and for more say from this house about who will become board members, and regarding the question of more competition and transparency in the selection process. we hope for your support in order to put pressure on the council to get more parliamentary say over the nomination of board members. therefore, we should vote to postpone this vote for the nomination. we have every legal right to wait a bit longer. (applause)
this is a request for an adjournment under rule 190. i am not going to go into the details of the procedure, but i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i have now taken over the vote and was in a bit of a hurry. i usually take on anyone who comes forward to counter-talk. i was then told that a written notice of a counter-speech by mrs berès had been received. mr. giegold, if you have no objections to that? thank you very much.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i am not going to go into detail. now i will take the liberty of calling some of them. mr. caspary and mr. weber, mrs. bearder, mr. weidenholzer, and the woman in the field. could you please hurry? the colleagues don't seem to hear that. the oral explanations of vote will now follow.
the explanations of vote are closed.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not the first time we've discussed cybercrime and cybersecurity. the debate has been going on for some time, and we have passed many resolutions in this house with a whole series of demands. we have also introduced many laws which are important and which are great advances. and yet, in the recent past, and all the time, even the most secure networks are being hacked by government agencies and authorities, and it's becoming very clear that we have a huge need for backup. i just want to briefly summarize ten demands where i think we really need to do something. firstly, we need binding minimum standards for it products in the framework of the enisa reform, the common regulation on a cybersecurity act. we are getting a whole load of products on the european market every year that do not meet the minimum standards of safety at all. we have no such binding standards. that has to change! we need a liability. if gaps are not closed at all, it must be clear that there is also a liability for the companies that bring such gaps to the market. there can be no state-sponsored uncertainty. we cannot have our agencies buying up security holes to exploit them and then concealing the holes and preventing the infrastructure from being upgraded. a secure infrastructure is in place. we need to open up gaps instead of shutting them down, and we don't always have to put everything online. i think that as technology advances, we have to think a lot about whether we really have to connect everything to the internet all the time, or whether there are ways of preferring to disconnect. we also need to make products verifiable. we need people who can afford to hire. these are issues that we definitely need to address. we need a cyber strategy that also significantly improves the network competence of the police and the judiciary. we need open, verifiable standards that our regulators can review. it's a scandal that many agencies don't even know what's going on in the systems on their computers.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the true scale of cyberattacks is still underestimated, and the economic damage has already been named by colleagues. the dark figure is just too big, and i still feel that we are too lax in our handling of the whole thing. that means that time is of the essence, and we just have to get around this faster. this is a very important point, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. secondly, we have to recognize that this is a global problem, and that's why we also have to strengthen collaboration with like-minded partners around the world, as we do, because technology just blurs the lines too much. we must also try harder to create common standards here. the challenge is not just cybercrime, it's the internet of things, it's the different legislation and it's human action. what do we need? we need concepts, a strategy on how we can prevent cyberattacks, a strategy on how we can respond to them, which i think should include a hack back. we need a strategy for how we can make our systems more robust. that is what my colleagues have already said, we need standards, we need common rules, information, security by design, reporting obligations, the use of data protection measures, exercises and cooperation with other countries.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the members of the delegation for their presence in slovakia. i would caution against jumping to conclusions. we don't know why the journalist was shot. we must give the prosecutor and the police every opportunity to investigate in all directions, and we must not point out prejudices and biased ways - it would be a serious mistake - if we want this story to be clarified. but that also means that we have to deal with the systemic problems within slovakia, and i didn't like that we had female government officials with close ties to the mafia. i can't do that. i would like to see the concerns of the people addressed here and i would like to see us make sure that the situation is clear. commissioner king, we also have a few requests for you: the commission has published its annual report on the fight against corruption. we believe it would be good and important to do this report again. we have seen from the point of view of budgetary control that we have problems in the agricultural fund. we in budgetary control will now be working on these problems, in every sector - at the paying agency, at the agricultural funds. we shall deal with slovakia in detail and intensely, without any preconceptions. we have been quite satisfied with the slovak authorities so far. slovakia was not the country where we saw the biggest problems, but admittedly we also have a helicopter view, we don't see everything. but we will be catching up and working very intensively with the aim of helping slovakia, not condemning it, because slovakia is an important member of our european family and therefore deserves our full solidarity, but also that we put an end to certain forms of corruption.
i have to say, madam president, as in malta, we are seeing the same pattern again: there are new elections or discussions about new elections, individual resignations, but what we really need is the clarification of the murders and the clarification of the acts that the journalists have investigated. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we should therefore stand with those who are demonstrating in slovakia today - as they have done in malta - in support of european values. but we can also do something about this, and that is why i am calling on you, commissioner: at least now, to reinstate the annual anti-corruption report of the european commission and to ensure that fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law are monitored annually in all european member states. that would be enough for equal treatment. finally, i think that the social democratic party family should also ask themselves whether robert fico's comments about journalists being prostitutes, snakes and hyenas have not contributed to the climate for this murder. when did you distance yourself from robert fico? i'd like to hear that from you.
i have to say, madam president, when journalists are killed in the middle of europe for their work on corruption, on possible links between crime and politics, this has to be on the european agenda. because we cannot accept that corruption shakes confidence in public action. we cannot allow journalists to be threatened or even killed for their research. because independent, critical media are an indispensable pillar of democracy and the rule of law. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european centre for the development of vocational training (ecvet) and the establishment of a european centre for vocational training (ecvet). this is not just a recognition of journalistic work, but it would be a clear signal that we are united in our resolve to oppose corruption and abuse of power everywhere.
member of the commission. – madam president, this is an important debate. i very much welcome parliament’s support – the support that all of you have expressed – for getting to the bottom of this case as rapidly as possible. i recall that europol deployed its support team to slovakia on 28 february. they are there to provide on the spot support and assistance to the slovak investigation and to share their specialist knowledge of investigative, technical and forensic methods. i reiterate that we call upon the slovak authorities to engage fully with olaf in order to find out whether this case does indeed involve misuse of eu funds with a cross—border dimension. these are very important matters and we will not rest until we get to the bottom of them. i have heard the calls from several of you to look again at the arrangements for scrutiny on rule of law matters and indeed, in some cases, to look at potential legislation. i will pursue that with colleagues, but the commission does remain completely committed to the fight against corruption through a series of targeted initiatives, through the scrutiny that we carry out in the european semester, and through our practical and financial support for a wide range of projects in the field of anti-corruption. i repeat again that we will be coming forward with a legislative initiative to strengthen the protection of whistle—blowers at the eu level. we agree that whistle—blowers who unveil illegal activities play an important role, including as sources of information for journalists, and we agree that protecting whistle—blowers from retaliation is crucial for safeguarding investigative journalism. so we will return to that. this horrible crime is, as a number of you have said, unfortunately not an isolated case. there have been other attacks against journalists, in particular investigative journalists, and that clearly calls for a collective response from all of us, because freedom of expression and a free media are anchors of our democracies. so to all those who seek to undermine our democratic values and to those who want to silence independent voices, in particular in the media, we need to send a strong signal. we will not be intimidated or silenced. we will speak up and protect the values that we hold so dear.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, let me assure you that the council attaches great importance to the protection of journalists and the defence of media freedom. we are all shocked by the appalling circumstances surrounding the death of mr ján kuciak and ms martina kušnírová. our words of condemnation must now be followed by a strong response from the law-enforcement authorities. we are confident that the slovakian law enforcement authorities, assisted by europol as well as teams from several countries, will be capable of upholding the rule of law in the face of this brutal murder. i can assure the house that the council has taken careful note of the views the honourable members have expressed here today, and this is a very important issue for us.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to take part in this debate today, your debate on the common consolidated corporate tax base. a debate which is the culmination of the truly remarkable work of parliament on this subject. i would particularly like to highlight the unwavering commitment of rapporteurs paul tang and alain lamassoure to explain, to promote the benefits of accis throughout europe. they have not only done so here in this chamber, they have, as we say in french, "mouillé la chemise". the accis proposal is much more than a simple technical adjustment. it raises the question of the tax system we want to build in europe for the years to come and, as paul tang has just said, it is indeed the taxation of companies in the 21st century that we are now going to debate, namely a fairer tax system, a more efficient and more attractive tax system, rather than the maintenance of national divisions and administrative burdens and in the end a so-called tax race, from which no one ever emerges victorious. there is urgency because other economies, we know them, are developing their own tax strategy -- to put it bluntly, we saw it with the us tax reform. what will be the reaction of europe? are we simply going to leave it to the member states, in the name of the principle of fiscal sovereignty? if we do, we risk contradictory national reactions without a long-term vision, and again, everyone loses. i think instead that we have everything to gain and all of us to gain from defining a collective strategy at eu level with a real impact on the international stage. this is what the revised accis draft i presented in october 2016 offers, a fundamental project that, as you know, consists of two proposals: the establishment of a common corporate tax base and its consolidation. in saying this, i immediately respond to alain lamassoure that i agree with him, that doing things in two stages does not mean that we divide them but that one precedes the other and that one cannot go without the other. these are the three ccctb cs (accis, in french) that the commission is proposing. if this breakdown was made for pragmatic reasons, i want to recall that it is crucial to move on both fronts at the same time and this is very clearly what the companies that want this modern taxation expect from us. the accis will promote growth and competitiveness of the european union, that is what it is all about. it will support and attract businesses and investors to a genuine single tax market by removing national barriers and simplifying administrative procedures. it will also provide a fairer tax system, where taxes will finally be paid where the profit is generated, and we know that this demand for fairness is absolutely major and massive for our fellow citizens. finally, it responds to the legitimate concerns of all those who have been outraged for years by the scandals created by repeated tax evasion and also by reprehensible tax optimisation practices. the accis will remove the asymmetries between national systems, which are currently exploited by those who practice aggressive tax planning. it will also eliminate - paul tang stressed - transfer pricing and preferential regimes, which are now the main vectors of tax evasion. of course and alain lamassoure made that link , i can't start this debate without also talking about the taxation of digital companies, a topic that is in everyone's mind. we will indeed be discussing this at the end of the week in buenos aires at the g20 finance summit. we will examine the work of the oecd in this area. what is it? companies are offering more and more services online, while our tax system is still based on the principles of a national, industrial economy, where you know the decision centres, where you have a physical presence. this is a pre-internet era that is now largely gone and let us be aware that more and more, the information economy, the technological economy and the economy in general will merge, as our companies incorporate more and more data into their business. i therefore very strongly welcome the european parliament's proposal to define the digital permanent establishment as a necessary evolution towards a modern and fairer taxation. i also welcome your wish to introduce a digital factor in the tax distribution key. we will of course have to analyse its definition carefully, but the direction seems to me to be the right one. as i have said many times before this house, i remain convinced that with accis we have the powerful and even the optimal tool to introduce, in a structural way, this taxation of digital companies into the corporate tax rules of the 21st century. in parallel, other more targeted measures are also being studied, although i say this to alain lamassoure and i echo what he said. i remain convinced that the real reform is structural reform, the introduction of the digital presence in the common consolidated corporate tax base. but on 21 march i will also make more specific or targeted proposals on digital taxation by presenting two texts simultaneously. on the one hand, a proposal to revise the rules on corporation tax to take account of new forms of activity, with the aim of incorporating this new text into the accis, of which i have spoken, but on the other hand also a more specific proposal, which will apply until a revision of the rules on corporation taxation makes it possible to tax profits where value is actually created. i will nevertheless be very careful - i say this to alain lamassoure - to avoid the risks of double taxation and also this pachydermal approach which gives birth to a mouse which he spoke so nicely about. we must find and there are ways to find a third smart way and that is what the commission will try to propose next week with enough ambition to actually reach digital companies and also enough finesse to reach a consensus, because a good tax proposal is one that creates a consensus so that it is adopted under the conditions we know, that is to say, at 28. in conclusion, i call on the member states to remain ambitious because there is a lot at stake: the definition of a genuine european tax model. i am glad that the bulgarian presidency is dealing with this matter as a matter of priority, not in this house but in general. if the discussions are well advanced, they could lead to an agreement before the end of our common mandate, the mandate of this european parliament and the mandate of the european commission. i hope that after solid work under the bulgarian presidency we can reach an agreement under the austrian presidency, before the end of this year. that seems to me a reasonable and desirable objective. you can count on my determination to do everything in my power to ensure that this objective is respected. i hear the cassandras here and there announcing that this project will never happen, that it is a sea serpent that has already been blocked for seven years. to these pessimists, the optimist i am would like to give an example from the recent news to give hope. yesterday, at the ecofin council, the finance ministers agreed - yes, 28 of them! - to impose unprecedented transparency rules on intermediaries, such as banks, lawyers and other advisers on the tax arrangements they create, and the european parliament voted overwhelmingly on a report on this subject a few weeks ago. this is a major step forward for the transparency revolution that i have been calling for since i took office and for which i am fighting alongside you. it is one more step, it is one more victory that strengthens my determination to reach an agreement on accis, but if i mention this it is not to highlight a success, it is simply to say that we did it in nine months, not nine years, but nine months. it means that when you want to and when you put a little political energy into a subject, you can. i am convinced, after listening to your rapporteurs, that you want it and that we can do it when you want it. now, let's get to the debate!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. one of the key points that makes it easier for companies to do aggressive tax planning within the european union is simply the fact that we still have 28 tax systems. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax is paid, and that fraud is made more difficult. the taxation of digital companies has already been mentioned. i think this is very, very important, because our corporate tax law still assumes a physical plant where something is actually produced. in the digital age, however, this is not always the case. the site is somewhere, namely where a server is, but not necessarily where the value is created. and the fact that we are moving forward here and not waiting for the oecd to come up with proposals, i think is very worth mentioning. but i would also like to point out for tomorrow's vote that we are keeping what we have worked out together in the committee - and i am really grateful to the rapporteurs for that - as it is. i don't think we're getting anywhere with ideology here. the fact that research costs can be reduced, but not at financial institutions, is very much ideologically driven. the fact that we cannot agree to a lowering of the thresholds is, i think, also clear. and it is also clear that we should refrain from taxing, which is the responsibility of the member states. my appeal would be: let us decide together what we have worked out in committee! then we have a serious proposal for the council.
i would like to make it clear that i will only accept one blue card per speaker, otherwise the time delays will be too great. that is why we are now moving on to the next speaker.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the fact that property is binding is not only a proverb, but it is also stated in the german constitution. the second paragraph of article 14 states: 'property shall be compulsory and its use shall be in the public interest'. but far too often this duty has become a false voluntariness. the tax scandals of luxleaks, the panama papers and the paradise papers, the revelations of which will be discussed by the european parliament in a special committee, are still on everyone's lips and have caused justified indignation. because they have shown that google, apple, mcdonald's, facebook, starbucks and whatever they're all called, the states are losing hundreds of billions of dollars a year. we therefore welcome the fact that work is being done here at european level on a group taxation system which will no longer allow companies to shift their profits from a to b in order to avoid tax payments at the expense of the general good. we see this as a real step away from a dysfunctional tax system. as always, the devil is in the detail. the loose rules contained in the text continue to allow companies to shift profits generated here to non-european subsidiaries. this opens the door to further tax evasion practices. in addition, there is no minimum rate of taxation, and we believe that this will increase the level of tax dumping. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. good intentions are not the same as good deeds.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs, mr tang and mr lamassoure, and also encourage commissioner moscovici to continue his work to prevent unhealthy tax competition. we have already done a great deal, but there is still a great deal to be done because the member states are still in a deadlock on many issues. the results of the two taxe committees and the pana committee of inquiry have shown where the gaps are, where we need to improve, and in particular where we need to bring the tax system into the 21st century, when it comes to ensuring that international companies, especially those in the digital economy, pay their fair share in the financing of public infrastructure, administration and social welfare states, and not just benefit from being able to do business. that is a common objective here in parliament and i can say that we support all of that. another issue is the minimum tax rates. since we have no influence on taxation in this sense, it would be wrong to demand minimum rates. it would also be against the common interest to make small progress. i therefore hope that these questions, such as the question of a common tax base, will be taken up in the future in the codecision procedure. if tax rates remain within national competence, we will also have more influence on the content.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have spoken this week in various contexts about the withdrawal of the united kingdom from the eu, the so-called brexit, which for me as a member of the european budget committee raises a particular problem, namely a gap of about 10% in the budget of the european union and the consequent imperative need to reprogram expenditure. we are facing the balance between the demands of european citizens and the governments of the member states for an efficient eu and a collapsing revenue situation. today we have adopted the european parliament's own resources report and our proposal for the multiannual financial framework. i believe that there can hardly be a better new own resource for the budget of the european union than the common corporate tax base. we should apply for that. this is a european regulated instrument which is important in the common market, a european instrument for a european budget.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, the idea of taxing where value is created is a good idea. it is also right because it eliminates the imbalance which currently exists in a massive way between international groups and smes. but, as my predecessor has just emphatically confirmed, there are considerable doubts whether all those involved here are pursuing such noble aims or whether they are pursuing quite different ones. we have heard today the call for common tax rates. we have even heard that the big countries may put pressure on the smaller countries to tax as the big countries would like. and we have just heard that we need funding from the european budget along this route. ladies and gentlemen, this is a dead end. that is what we must prevent!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking the two rapporteurs, paul tang and alain lamassoure. i do not want to repeat everything that has been said, but i would like to emphasize four points. firstly, in my view, this is not a law that is now intended to punish a particular type of company, but it is a law that seeks to establish equality between small and mediumsized enterprises, based in europe or elsewhere in the world, and large companies, which have the chance to use the taxation possibilities that the member states have left them. secondly, it is important to make it clear that this law is not about restricting the freedom of the member states - no matter how large or small they are - but about regaining sovereignty so that we can achieve a european tax code that is truly uniform and allows fair competition between member states with different tax rates. that too seems very important to me. if we get this common corporate tax base, there will be competition between member states, but it will be fair competition. and so i think that this proposal will help us to achieve greater tax justice, and i am grateful that we are able to take this path. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. dear colleague frunzulică, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i think it's the right time, because we can't wait forever either. we've been waiting a long time. in 2008, this parliament discussed this proposal for the first time. it has been mentioned that the member states were very slow to participate. and it was only when the european commission courageously singled out individual cases that the extent of the damage became clear. i think that the eu countries cannot afford to spend 70 billion a year in the long term. we have to take a step, and that's why i think it's the right time. this also allowed me to mention the fourth point that was important to me.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 15 march 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral reply to the commission on the us attack on eu support payments to farmers under the cap (in relation to spanish olives) by czesław adam siekierski, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, and bernd lange, on behalf of the committee on international trade (o-000006/2018 - b8-0007/2018) (2018/2566 ((rsp)).
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are being investigated in two directions, and some would say under fire, on the question of olive oil from the united states. the first is anti-dumping investigations against individual olive producers. here too, in fact, one can very critically ask whether this is a justified subject of investigation, because we certainly do not allow dumping in the eu. we shall probably see the results of these anti-dumping investigations by the united states in june. i can also, in a way, understand why this anti-dumping investigation should be launched. but the second line, anti-subsidy measures: the allegation that there is subsidy fraud in the european union is something i cannot understand at all. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is a mockery because we clearly meet the criteria of the green box within the wto with the latest reform of the european agricultural policy. in this respect, it is an attack on the structures of the wto, and we have seen this in other contexts. we have already discussed this this morning, as far as steel is concerned. the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. that is why we must make it very clear that we cannot accept these anti-subsidy investigations and the imposition of duties. this is protectionism after all! we have asked the commission three times what the situation is with regard to the olive question, that is to say, what action the commission has taken so far. the commission is now going to sue the united states at the wto after the tariffs were imposed in january. are there any considerations to create security measures, countermeasures?
member of the commission. – mr president, we are discussing many different, very important issues today. the subject of this debate, as communicated to the commission, was corporate social responsibility. now we are on a much wider agenda. as i said, the european union does a lot on corporate social responsibility, inside and outside europe. we can always do more, of course, and that is why we have set up this multi-stakeholder platform to give us input and ideas, and we are also carrying out an internal assessment to see whether there are loopholes or things we can do better. and i have taken good note of things you said. the granting of regional investment aid, however, that involves the relocation of jobs from elsewhere in the eu is subject to strict commission control. the state aid rules provide safeguards to prevent member states from using public money to incentivise the relocation of jobs from one country in the eu to another. that is at the heart of fair competition in the internal market, and it is why, as long ago as 2014, we introduced specific conditions to ensure that regional investment aid cannot be granted to incentivise the relocation of jobs and business activities from one country to another. arrangements were strengthened in 2017 to ensure that these rules work well in practice. the company the honourable members are referring to today has not received any support under regional development funds in italy. we have contacted slovakia to investigate whether any investment aid was given to embraco from them, and we are still awaiting a response. we, as the commission, can act under state aid rules only if companies or sectors get a selective advantage that is not available for everyone, and we work to ensure that the general labour and taxation rules in europe work for everybody. should you have any indication that state aid might have led to relocation, my colleague commissioner vestager and her staff are ready to have a look at the relevant information. and, as i said, we are working constantly in a dialogue, not only with big, small and medium-sized companies but also with ngos, with stakeholders and with trade unions and labour organisations, to see how we can endeavour to improve corporate social responsibility. then on the tax issue, that is a totally different issue – related, i agree, to a certain extent, but subject to other types of activity and legislation – which was discussed in this chamber earlier today, i think.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. with more than 100 million cvs since 2005, europass is a successful, low-cost initiative at european level. it helps young and old to document skills, competences, qualifications, but also professional and personal aptitudes. standardised forms are used to provide transparency and facilitate the evaluation process. learners and jobseekers can be sure that qualified data will become an important cross-border decision-making tool, both for employers, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and for public authorities and institutions. our aim was to simplify europass, make it more user-friendly and make it even more efficient. in the european parliament we agreed that the transformation of the europass into a completely new form would have been too radical. the council also had considerable concerns from 14 member states. the eu commission reacted constructively, and what was initially a heavily criticised proposal gradually became a substantial portfolio for more european mobility. after ten months of work and many technical meetings, we agreed on the fourth trilogy in mid-december 2017. the use of the europass will not be compulsory, but will remain voluntary. i thank the shadow rapporteurs and the members of the two committees, employment and social affairs and culture and education, for the climate of openness and fairness. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. the council and the commission have made the same effort to reach consensus and have done so with us. the result: europass is not overburdened, the administrative and financial costs for the member states are absolutely clear, and the cost-benefit ratio is balanced. the continued existence of the national europass centres will be safeguarded. this group of experts has been in existence since 2004. there is competence, there is know-how, everything is proved, it was never a prevention machine. we have succeeded in preventing the introduction of esco into the europass. while we agree on the objective of better education, better qualifications and much more, a uniform terminology for the definition of vocational aptitudes and key qualifications is not yet mature enough. we look at esco; at the moment, it's a project that needs to be tested before it can actually be used. the results of the fourth trilogue were agreed at a joint meeting of the two committees for employment and culture. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i think that's a good joint success. this gives us a chance. a revised europass may be launched early next year. european mobility would then have a new and very attractive face.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank you for what i consider to be a really qualified debate. some were not quite in agreement, but the majority made that clear. what are we going to do with the europass? we want to say: young people and students and experienced workers, show your talents, show your skills, show up, make sure we have good data to help you, so that a training measure comes, so that you can find a job, so that you can also change a job! that's the challenge we have. we've tried to modernize this important framework that already exists, to make it more inclusive, to make it simpler, to make it more user-friendly -- i think this is absolutely essential -- and to say that we have to use all the digital possibilities that exist in doing so. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think we have a good foundation to work with. whenever we say that mobility is necessary, there is such a good offer, such a qualified instrument with which we can work. perhaps we can say afterwards that we have made our contribution to the fact that more mobility can really take place.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mr ferreira's report clearly sets out the problem of illegal fishing and the flag of convenience practice, which are now calling into question the fisheries agreement we had with the comoros. we must, however, continue a constructive dialogue with that country so that it can begin to take the fight against illegal fishing seriously. but beyond the comoros, major countries such as vietnam, china, russia, brazil and thailand are also regularly involved in illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and some even involve seamen in slavery, without worrying about it. vietnam has received only a yellow card, while the blue boats, which are mainly from vietnam, have long been plundering the waters of the indian and pacific oceans. the small island states of the pacific are suffering from a deteriorating situation and are witnessing the plundering of their exclusive economic zones. this is also the case for our outermost regions in europe and, more specifically, in france. in new caledonia, for example, blue vietnamese boats are regularly boarded by the french national navy. in guyana, illegal fishing vessels are sometimes found to be armed and everywhere there is a proliferation of mother ships stationed at the edge of the sea borders and supplied by smaller vessels. the commission can only be credible on this issue if it punishes all countries that practice or tolerate illegal fishing and if it completely abandons the policy of the strong with the weak and the weak with the strong.
the commission has already done so. it is a sad evening indeed, when we have to discuss the termination of the fisheries agreement with the comoros as the last item on the agenda today. this island group has an economy with a per capita gdp of only $1,000. it is situated between madagascar and mozambique in a very rich fishing area and we have - as my colleagues have already said - partnership relations since 1988. that is 30 years, and that includes development aid, so to speak. but this economy has not advanced at all. i am sure that this is also due to the system of government which prevails in the comoros, and which is autocratic. the 1.8 million we have put into the comoros budget each year under this fisheries agreement to enable us to obtain the 70 licences has gone somewhere, but certainly not to build up our own small-scale fishing fleet. and that's the problem. the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas - which includes the indian ocean - brings together every year the japanese, the chinese and the south koreans and sets quotas, including for bigeye tuna, bluefin tuna, in the indian ocean, swordfish and so on. i have seen firsthand how we can work together to combat illegal fishing and how we can chain up vessels. i am not talking about comorian fishing vessels fishing illegally, but about chinese, russian or other vessels. we must act together to prevent this from happening again.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. we have adopted a new legislation on the fair treatment of so-called conflict minerals a year ago. this was an important step in the framework of a value-based trade policy and also away from a trade policy focused only on bilateral agreements and towards a focus on value chains. this is the right approach to take in the face of global value chains. i also thank the commission for its very productive support of the negotiations. this was certainly a great success for all the institutions of the european union. this legislation will enter into full force on 1 january 2021. we have deliberately left a little more time because this is a new approach - a new approach which requires a responsible approach, a duty of care on the part of companies throughout the value chain. this is of course something new that has not been tried in practice. and that's why this longer period is right. we've focused on the four main so-called conflict minerals -- tantalum, tungsten, tin and gold -- that are currently being mined in regions that are plagued by civil war and other conflicts, and where people are forced, including children, to mine these minerals. i think anyone who has gold jewelry or a smartphone should be sure that the materials used in them are not the result of forced labor, of brutal situations. therefore, for these four minerals, the entire value chain with a duty of care, from the mine to the smelter to the product. these four minerals that we've focused on account for 35% of global trade, 35% is a lot. we are also taking an important step in this respect in the global context. and now the two committees have put this debate and the request for an oral answer to the vote because, of course, there are some steps to be taken in the preparation until january 2021. because legislation is the first step, but then there are some steps in terms of implementation. and of course we want to make the legislation so that there are no loopholes that allow this good legislation to be undermined. we want to make sure that the maximum of this positive effect is really felt. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the new rules are applied in full. the questions are mainly concerned with the question: what is the status of the recognition of voluntary industrial schemes? we have said in the legislation that if certain industries want to go ahead and have reliable self-sustaining industrial schemes, this will be recognised. is there any research already being done and are there agreements with the oecd to look at certain schemes? we have also asked for accompanying measures in the legislative framework, both in relation to small and mediumsized enterprises here in the community, which certainly have particular difficulties, and in relation to the question of how to provide development aid on the ground. the transparency of the data was also an important consideration. the question is whether the database has already been developed. and finally, of course, i said 35 percent of the minerals are accounted for, but that means 75 percent are not accounted for. what is the cooperation with other countries around the world to eventually cover 100%?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to address myself specifically to you, mrs malmström of the commission, but also to the council, which is absent, because i miss him in this very important debate on an important legislative procedure: there are now more than four million internal refugees in the congo. according to unicef, 13.1 million people are in need of humanitarian aid there, including 7.8 million children. these are destinies in the struggle for control of the raw materials, and their sale to europe and asia makes the warlords, but also merchants and buyers rich. that's how guns are funded. we have already discussed this meaning here on several occasions. i ask you: what specific information does the commission have on the supply routes and cash flows involved? if they do not have the information, what are you doing to get that information? the more than 360 companies in the responsible minerals initiative have acted in a proactive manner and have aligned their guidelines closely with those of the oecd. this week they have already provided their companies with the new reporting tools. in june 2018, that is, this year, their use will then become mandatory. when are we coming? mrs malmström, just because i was so happy that we had worked together and achieved so much, i am worried that today sceptics and bremser would like to see the initiative scrapped. this includes the obligation of transparency mentioned above. how far has the commission come in its accompanying support measures? how do we prepare for implementation in central africa? how do we prepare the companies in the european union? where are the member states? there's still a lot to do! mr michel has spoken about this. have planning posts been set up? are the customs lines legally prepared to implement the regulation? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament.
madam president, commissioner, i will speak for the rapporteur from the epp, iuliu winkler, and ask the questions he would have liked to ask, as he cannot be here. firstly, has there been any feedback on the handbook for economic operators detailing the criteria on conflict-affected and high-risk areas? secondly, what is the state of play on the member states’ competent authorities? has the deadline of 9 december been met? if not, has the commission taken any steps to assist in the establishment of these key national bodies? thirdly, is the translation process of the oecd due diligence guidance making progress? fourthly, likewise, has the commission taken steps to support smes in their preparatory efforts for complying with the due diligence requirements? lastly, what is the commission approach in promoting oecd due diligence standards and what related outreach actions have been undertaken in this regard? have major strategic partners shown an interest or already taken concrete steps in establishing similar standards for due diligence in order to prevent the financing of conflicts through the trade in illicitly mined minerals?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. transport is the only sector that continues to increase emissions, as it did last year and the years before that. we had another 0.5% more greenhouse gases in the mobility sector in 2016 than in 2015. you pointed out that we already had the 2014 clean power for transport directive. i have to say quite frankly, commissioner, knowing full well that this is not your fault, because they were not yet in action at the time, that this was a great opportunity that the member states destroyed. we had very clear quantitative targets in annex ii with your help at the time, which ultimately provided for the construction of such and such infrastructure in the various categories by 2020. it is precisely this annex ii that the council has taken out, so that we have now lost four full years. if this annex had been followed, we would have had 800 000 charging stations in 2020. now we only have 130,000. these are figures from the alternative fuels observatory, so they're right. so this is a big opportunity that we ultimately missed. i am all the more surprised that the commission is once again coming up with only an action plan. it's time for legislation, it's one before twelve. the other regions of the world are doing it for us. we know about the developments in china, we also know the pressure our industry is under. i therefore invite you all, and in particular the commission, to build this infrastructure, the cost of which we have probably calculated, now in the form of a european investment fund. there is the possibility of a rapid upswing in infrastructure with 24 billion euros that industry and the european union could share. if we can't do that - you've also mentioned this in the co2 legislation - i don't know if the car companies and the industry can meet the 2025 targets. let us therefore be ambitious! i am afraid that this action plan alone will not achieve that. we want what we want!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. i think that most people in this parliament are really on the same page. i fully agree with ismail ertrug of the s&d group. we have both been working on this legislation for the last period, and we both rightly regretted that the member states were so unambitious. i would therefore - just as he does - actually wish that we might have some other form of new legislation instead of an action plan. i know that this is not going well, because the implementation targets for 2022 are still not in sight. but we can already see that the national plans which have to be presented have been far too unambitious. there are many reasons for this. the oil price was too low, so they didn't start it. it is also true that consumers do not accept new technologies that are available on the market because they do not know whether they will be able to drive their vehicles. and that's true in all areas. i know that, because i was very much in favour of using lng more on ships. many ports are already equipped to do so. you can do that, of course, more in the north than in the south, because there are different limits. so we really need to pool our resources to move faster, and i hope we can do that here.
i have to say, madam president, my group is really concerned about the lack of seriousness with which this matter has been chosen as a matter of urgency here. there is no indication of the extent to which the killing of disabled children is common in uganda. we have heard it many times now, and only a documentary film with individual cases was the basis for this decision. i do not wish to minimize the suffering of these children and their families. but now a documentary is bringing uganda into the international spotlight. uganda, a poor country, was willing to take in over a million refugees. i think it's not a good time to talk about uganda like this. that is why we as a group did not sign this resolution.
madam president, have we voted on paragraph 39?
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the performance reserve of the esi funds by iskra mihaylova, on behalf of the committee on regional development (o-000005/2018 - b8-0006/2018) (2018/2546(rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, the performance framework and the reserve are among the main elements of the reinforced result—orientation of cohesion policy in the current period and the commission remains committed to the strong performance orientation of esi funds. for reasons of consistency, coherence, simplification and having a level playing field across member states, it is essential to maintain uniform conditions for applying the performance framework and to ensure that the achievement of milestones is assessed at the same time. let me reiterate that the commission is always ready to listen to ideas and proposals from the european parliament. mr president, honourable members, thank you for this debate. may i say very personally that you can be reassured that, as a former commissioner for this policy and having invested a lot of energy in the reform of this policy, i still have a very close eye on it and on performance in particular.
the debate is closed.
i would like to thank all the colleagues who have stayed until the end and i would like to thank in particular the services and the interpreters for their work this week and the guests for their interest. i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to thank you for the initiative to look at syria at the beginning of this plenary week. the ban on chemical weapons was adopted almost a hundred years ago an international convention in geneva and we cannot therefore look the other way when this commitment has now been breached. as you have reported, the intervention measures of our american, french and british friends were necessary because a signal had to be sent that we cannot tolerate this action in syria by assad and his partners. the use of chemical weapons must not be used against civilians. the activities of the allies in syria have been proportionate from our epp point of view. they were limited to the infrastructure necessary for the use of chemical weapons. but now, in our view, the window of opportunity for diplomacy has opened. russia must now abandon its blockade of the un security council. and if it is often said that europe is not present enough in the syrian conflict, i would like to point out that the europeans have now provided over nine billion euros in humanitarian aid in recent years. we europeans are partners with the people in the region who are affected and threatened. the eu is helping, and that is why, after these military strikes, a european initiative must now be taken to find a diplomatic solution to the conflict. thank you for your initiative, mr president.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not it's good that we have this brief discussion. but it's also good that we have the full discussion this week on syria. the use of chemical weapons is a war crime and must be stopped. there's no other sentence after that. but still, allow me to ask how this all happens. and we have to ask this question, because in the consequence that we need diplomacy, that we need de-escalation, that we need to urgently strengthen the united nations, we agree. but let's ask critically how we got into a situation where russia doesn't understand, where iran doesn't understand - i could look to northern syria and say turkey doesn't understand - that de-escalation is the need of the hour. we must speak a clear language - understanding-oriented but clear. if russia wants to demonstrate its strength, it doesn't have to be on the backs of poisoned children and attacks on hospitals. if mr erdoğan wants to demonstrate his strength, he doesn't have to do it in a situation where isis has been defeated in the north, he has waited with his tanks for so long until the kurds have cleared the conflict area to let the tanks go now. and if iran wants a future in the modern world, it needs to consider its role in this conflict scenario. i have a request: strengthen the back of mrs mogherini! the european union must speak with one voice and we european members of parliament call for an immediate ceasefire, humanitarian aid and a political solution with the binding participation of all parties.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, chemical warfare is always totally unacceptable and it is very difficult to imagine what kind of a person could bombard his own population with chemical weapons. this is totally unimaginable, and it should not have happened ever. what we need now is that the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons (opcw) gets a strong a comprehensive mandate, is able to work in syria, and that such a situation is not repeated. international law needs to be upheld and indeed russia needs to finally give up its blockade at the un institutions. all the suffering that we’ve seen for so many years in syria needs to end. it has lasted way too long. i believe many opportunities have also been missed in the past to find, or at least to have the opportunity to find, a solution. the international community and especially the european union must do more to stop this war and must develop a political strategy, because air strikes will not end this war. a solution can only be political and diplomatic. it cannot be made by weapons and i think it’s really important that we indeed speak more with one european voice, because if we speak with one voice, we have much more weight behind us. we are much stronger if we speak with one voice and not if we speak with 28 different voices. i am really hoping that we will see increased efforts now to end this war, to stop the suffering of so many millions of women, children, men, so many people who had to flee who are still stuck in syria. this needs to be our focus of attention.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not my group and i will not agree with this description of what happened last weekend - the military attack, the military attack - in any case. we too condemn the use of chemical weapons and we are in favour of their banning, because chemical weapons do not exist anywhere in the world. and in europe, where chemical weapons were first used in the last century, we have a great deal of sensitivity to them. we consider the use of chemical weapons to be a violation of international law, a crime under international law, and it must be punished. but there are political, diplomatic, international bodies, institutions, commitments and agreements. and if we really want to achieve anything, then we must do everything possible to get russia to side with those who are clearly and unequivocally opposed to the use of chemical weapons. i think it is madness to send missiles, to organise supposedly targeted strikes! the commission has not yet been able to explain to us what has really been destroyed, and i also assume that these strikes will not facilitate a political or diplomatic solution. i have never seen in the last two or three years, or in this parliament, how much the media, and especially governments, have played down the operation - it was only a targeted operation. it's been played with fire! and i cannot understand at all that the heads of government of the european union seriously believe that they should stand next to trump to discuss with him the use of missiles, of weapons in general - someone who says this today and presses the other button tomorrow. that cannot be the role of the eu! we must ensure - and i understand this by a single voice - that we say clearly and unambiguously: no, we are not playing trump's game, nor assad's, nor putin's. we're not playing for either of them, or any of the three. we are an independent organization, a political force in the world, which is primarily focused on de-escalation, on diplomacy and on strengthening the un. what happened this weekend is that the un secretary-general was shamed, that he was confronted with facts that made his entire commitment null and void. i think we should also live up to that responsibility. and by the way, when you say that the heads of government are worried, the people are worried. people in the member states are worried, not just in the eu but far beyond. we must, as a parliament, oppose such a game of fire and not downplay it by pretending that it was all just a little game.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. on 15 may, the community celebrates the international day of the family. this official united nations day of action is based on general assembly resolution 47/237 of 20 september 1993. this year's theme is 'promoting the role of the family in a peaceful society and sustainable development'. i ask you how the european parliament intends to support this official family day on 15 may in the spirit of the united nations resolution on principles. i ask you this also because the european parliament wants to celebrate on 17 may what is known as the international day against homophobia, transphobia and biphobia. the theme is 'celebrating the diversity of sex and gender'. but may 17 is by no means an official day that would justify it, either in the member states or in the eu or in the united nations. i hope you will agree with me that we need to ask the member states first whether the european parliament can just as easily put up the gender rainbow flag in public spaces. this is a debasement of state symbols. and i hope that you will agree with me on the need to inform on 15 may, international family day, with the same effort, the same resources and the same determination, about the importance of the family, based on marriage between a man and a woman, for the sustainable development of all western societies and the european union.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. we have been discussing the situation in the republic of moldova for well over six months. because there are also controversial issues, we then tried to bring together those who could solve the problem, and not everyone from moldova was willing to come to the table from both sides. and now, after six months, we're suddenly pulling something out of it because it fits so well, maybe for the election campaign in chisinau. i don't think that's right. we should at least deal with this situation again when we are voting on something that is well over six months old.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'climate change' in the definition of the term 'climate change'. by designing all three pillars, we have filled this with life. with the agreement on burden sharing and an ambitious lulucf regulation, we have now made european climate policy concrete. i would like to thank my colleague gerbrandy for the good cooperation. but while burden sharing is about co2 reduction targets, lulucf is about the positive contribution of agriculture and forestry to combating climate change. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we have achieved that there are serious and robust accounting rules for co2 capture and release. parliament has worked to strike a balance between flexibility and comparable accounting rules for the 28 member states. and the question is, what does that balance look like? i am convinced that we have succeeded in strengthening the bioeconomy - wood for houses, furniture and bioenergy - but at the same time we have found a benchmark against which to measure the impact on the climate, the so-called forest reference value. it is important for me personally to emphasize that the guidelines are addressed directly to the member states and not to the forest owners. this is the only way to ensure active and sustainable forest management. this is good for the forest, good for the climate and, last but not least, good for the forestry manager. it is precisely through farsighted and responsible management that our forests have grown over the last 25 years to an area the size of portugal - that is to say, nine million hectares. another success is the inclusion of managed wetlands in the accounting system for member states from 2026 at the latest. this is particularly evident in view of the enormous amounts of co2 stored there. the council has welcomed us on the wetlands, and we have had to accept the compromise on the so-called compensation mechanisms and the forest reference value. i would have liked to have seen the reference value of 20002012, which would have given member states even more flexibility in their harvest rates without weakening the climate balance. because flexible forest management means active and sustainable use, which opens up even more storage potential. in spite of all this, ladies and gentlemen, i am convinced that we have reached a balanced and ambitious compromise in the trilogue. in the lulucf area, there is no reduction potential, but on the contrary, there is a huge potential for climate change. in total, our forests absorb about 10% of the total eu emissions. this performance is absolutely positive, it is great and it needs to be strengthened accordingly. with this legislation we are sending a message: we want our forests in europe to continue to be managed sustainably and with foresight, and we want this to be valued. we want to keep a strong forestry in europe. ladies and gentlemen, vote for this regulation on wednesday, because climate change and the contribution of the forest are of concern to us all. let's take responsibility for ourselves and our children.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not it was a battle between ideology and science. it's not right to leave a forest alone. when a forest is in a quasi-self-balancing state, there's a lot of good that happens, but there's no carbon storage. we want to manage our forests sustainably, and sustainable management is the key to ensuring that the forest, the forest, can also act as a carbon store. i am very grateful to the rapporteur, mr linz, for bringing this report back to the scientific facts, if you will, so that our forest can fulfil its full range of functions, namely that it can function in its protective, useful and recreational role. i hope that the implementation of the regulation will be made more bureaucratic.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you and congratulations to the two rapporteurs. you both fought well. we are a little more satisfied with the report by norbert lins. i think it is particularly important that he said that we are not making direct commitments to individual foresters here, but that the legislation is directed at the member states. the gerbrandy report on burden sharing or climate action, i agree with those who say: 'we could have imagined a little more.' i find it particularly regrettable that the council of ministers is always ready to impose strict climate protection requirements when they do not concern the member states. in the eec, we agreed to this in the end, and this is a good compromise. the council of ministers tightened up the legislation. he's been toning them down in the load-sharing, and that's not a good balance. we must nevertheless agree to it tomorrow, even if we are not satisfied. because we need this legislation to make a difference in these other sectors. i think it is irresponsible to vote against. it's a small step forward, but it's one we have to take now.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the lulucf regulation is a climate change instrument and not a forestry policy. i am therefore pleased with the result, which, through its forward-looking accounting approach, continues to enable our forestry sector to manage european forests sustainably. we are dealing in this house with the decarbonisation of our society in the context of climate policy and beyond, as well as with other important issues for the future, such as the bioeconomy or the circular economy. our forests are not just a carbon store for the climate balance, but a resource. they provide renewable building and packaging materials, but also renewable energy for electricity, heat and mobility. we can effectively ensure sustainable management in the member states - unlike what often happens with imports. for these reasons, it is extremely important that we do not maneuver into the background, because our different objectives cancel each other out. fortunately, we were able to prevent that in this case. so thank you very much to all the colleagues.
member of the commission. – mr president, i thank all of you for this debate, which shows again how seriously the european union takes its commitments under the paris agreement. i think that together we can be proud of the result of our joint effort to agree on the legal framework for the next decade for the sectors not covered by the european union emissions trading system. we all know about the scale of efforts needed to reach our long—term climate targets and some contributors to the debate have pointed to that. specifically ms dali pointed to the lack of ambition of the efforts set in the proposal for a regulation,saying that these are too low and that this does not put the european union on track towards the necessary long—term emission reductions. i will make two comments. first, that the ambition level increase is significant because a modified trajectory – a starting date as assured by the european parliament of seven months earlier – saves more than 120 million tonnes of emissions over the period 2021—2030 and hence increases the additional effort needed, compared to the initial proposal, by more than ten percent. my second remark is that, in order to address the long—term issues that have been pointed out, the commission will address them in the context of developing the european union mid—century strategy. we intend to deliver the commission’s input in november this year. it is very clear that, if the european union’s mid—century strategy or the global stocktake after the paris agreement lead to changes in european union emission reduction targets, the review clause caters for the corresponding need to adapt the efforts set out in the regulation. so this is not a closed effort. it is an open matter that we will have to discuss in the framework of the future reflection that the commission has to do on the long—term trajectories. but, coming back to the issue of the two regulations on effort sharing and lulucf, today i invite you to lend your support to them in tomorrow’s vote. i think it is very important to ensure that they can enter swiftly into force and that the necessary provisions can be in place by january 2021, because there is no time to lose in our fight against climate change.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. thank you for this debate. i am also grateful that the commissioner has once again highlighted the exemplary work that the european union is doing here, that is, the example we are setting internationally. i would also like to say to those colleagues who have made it clear that we are not just talking about the period from 2021 to 2030, but much more. i would also like to thank those who have made it clear that this process is not yet over, but that we will of course continue to have a say in the delegated acts, for example in the context of the debate on the lulucf regulation. i would also like to thank mr brannen, who made it clear that we have identified the positive incentives, that we are not coming up with a regulatory law, but that we have put in place a positive incentive, for example, in the area of long-lived wood products. i do not agree with a colleague from the gue/ngl group who said that we are only pursuing cosmetic policies here. i think it will turn out that this is not the case. i also thank the colleagues who have made it clear that there is a multifunctionality in forestry and agriculture, so that ideology has no place here, but that all areas of society must be taken into account: both the forest as a supplier of wood products, the land as a supplier for food production, but also the enormous contribution, the enormous potential for co2 savings, and that we can achieve everything - including a higher saving effect, at the same time providing wood and also ensuring food production in europe. i would like to thank all the members, the commission and the council once again for what i believe to be a very good result.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. it is a year ago today that parliament tabled its first draft. in fact, mr timmermans, we were a little concerned when you withdrew the first report from your predecessor. but i think that turned out for the best. i would like to return to the heart of this paper, which is the question of resource efficiency. this is the pivotal issue we have to deal with for our children and the next economic generation, and for that we need harmonised definitions. this was a very confusing situation in europe. we need clear methods of calculation. here we are, mr. vice president, one number ahead of you, as you might have guessed. so we now have a more or less calculated method, and the recycling targets are already very substantial. even good countries, which are already a little further along in this matter, say: 'we cannot do more at the moment.' and the harmonization of standards in recycling matters is particularly important, because it was also a matter of the whole package. so there were always big differences between germany and austria and also problems for the smes. the commission has already made a number of proposals. because competitiveness and sustainability, that's a medal. and this medal is supposed to empower us in a resource-poor continent - that's who we are, resources are scarce. and that is why the vote next wednesday is extremely important. i personally believe that the decision from china has a salutary effect. of course there's trouble now. but i remember this: when i got a blue letter at school, it was very healing. and that's why i think we're on the right track. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i have only one wish: i have been working on waste in this house for thirty years. we must now finally defeat the enemy within ourselves and really implement what we decide here. that's exactly what we haven't done in the last few years.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am very pleased that we are having this debate today. we all want to leave our descendants a good and clean planet that provides them with what they need. we're actually pretty far away from that at the moment. we risk that not being the case. the importance of this subject is also shown by the fact that at least at the beginning of the debate there were two commissioners present: commissioner vella and also vice-president timmermanns. the commission is very concerned about this, and so are we. we must see to it that we avoid waste, that we recycle it when it is there. i'm very much interested in the sea. everyone knows that i love the sea. we've just been able to do a plastic exhibition in brussels with a few colleagues, which shows how serious waste problems can be for the ocean. there's a million square miles of plastic island in the pacific ocean alone. if we want to prevent this from happening, we must change our thinking. we must also see that we create alternative products, that we also collect and recycle the waste that exists, for example. this is a great opportunity for new start-ups, it can also bring new jobs. we just need to talk about it enough. this package is a very good one, and i'm glad we're going to agree to it.
i have to say, madam president, the circular economy is the second most important pillar of sustainable development on this planet, after climate protection. we are making good progress with the circular economy package, but we are still a long way from the target. waste landfills should be a model to be used in the future. it is not about waste, but about raw materials and recyclable materials. so it's important that we not only separate, that we not only recycle, but that we also create a market for secondary raw materials so that these things really get into the cycle. i see we've worked hard here, especially the reporter. the commission's action plan was not so ambitious, and i hope that the plastics strategy will be speeded up. we must also avoid plastic in the first place, and the plastic tax should not be a taboo. i think we need to give incentives, and then the producers and the consumers will follow. so tomorrow, i think, a big step forward, but we're still a long way from the finish line.
i have many, many messages for the following spontaneous word exchange procedure. normally, five minutes is allotted. i would therefore like to ask seven colleagues to speak and the others to be patient, because we have other, very important, issues to discuss. spontaneous speech
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 18 april 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report of ms daciana octavia sârbu, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation of the seventh environment action programme (2017/2030 (ini)) (a8-0059/2018).
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to congratulate ms sârbu and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on their excellent report on the implementation of the 7th environment action programme (eap). this initiative is well timed and contains several useful recommendations, which we will look into carefully, as the commission is also working on its own evaluation. your report points to specific areas for improvement. land and soil degradation and, more broadly, the sustainability of agriculture and of our mobility are among the areas in which a lot still needs to be done. it is, however, fair to say that overall there has been good progress and we are working to meet our goals to protect our climate and pave the way for a low-carbon and circular economy. the circular economy package, including our new waste legislation and the commission’s plastics strategy, will help us on our way to decoupling economic growth from environmental pressures, including carbon emissions. we will continue to deliver on this, for example by delivering a proposal on single—use plastics before the end of may, in addition to a legislative proposal for water reuse in agricultural irrigation. the european union is also well on track to meet its climate and energy targets for 2020. we expect emissions to reduce by more than 20% by 2020, taking the first steps that put the eu towards a transformation to a low-carbon economy, as stated in the 7th eap. as part of a global effort to limit the average temperature increase to well below two degrees centigrade compared to pre-industrial levels, we are also working towards reducing by 2050 greenhouse gas emissions by 80% to 95%, compared to 1990 levels. under the paris agreement, the eu has pledged to reduce emissions by at least 40% domestically by 2030 compared to 1990. we have taken key steps on putting in place the legislative framework on how to get there. i can mention here the eu emissions trading system (ets) revision for after 2020, the targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions at member state-level in sectors other than ets and the regulation of absorptions and emissions in the land sectors. you discussed the last two earlier this evening with my colleague, commissioner arias cañete. in terms of quality of life and a healthy environment for our citizens, we have worked hard together to protect people’s health from exposure to harmful pollutants. in 2016, the revised national emission ceilings directive set ambitious 2020 and 2030 emission reduction commitments for five main air pollutants, including particulate matter. we ratified the minamata convention to protect our citizens from the emission and release of mercury. we have reviewed our flagship chemical legislation ‘reach’ and are checking whether the broader chemicals acquis is still fit for purpose. these are all important steps towards a non-toxic environment. we have also made progress on the so-called enabling framework, with specific initiatives to close gaps relating to knowledge, financing and implementation. the environment implementation review (eir) and the environmental compliance action plan will help to make this happen, not against but together with the member states in all areas, including our fight against air pollution. our nature action plan to improve the implementation of the birds and habitats directives is an important step forward in strengthening the conservation of biodiversity, complementing the invasive alien species regulation, which is tackling an important driver of biodiversity loss in the eu. but 2020 is around the corner and we need to do more to achieve our biodiversity targets. a major challenge is the alarming decline of pollinators. this requires urgent and decisive action, and we will respond soon with an initiative to address this problem in line with what this parliament has called for. the commission’s recently adopted action plan for sustainable finance will make europe a frontrunner in shifting trillions of euros towards those investments needed to build a sustainable economy. i welcome your strong support for an ambitious environmental agenda. we need to successfully address environmental challenges to meet the sustainable development goals. the european union has always been, and should continue to be, a frontrunner for sustainability and we must continue to show leadership in this process at all levels: at global level and, even more importantly, here at home.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. unfortunately, courage and determination are not always the qualities of the commission and this house, even when the political will is there. as a result, we must now admit that we will definitely not achieve the objectives of the seventh environmental action programme, because that would require a review of many policy areas - above all the common agricultural policy, which is currently being reviewed. the commission could thus now demonstrate how seriously it takes environmental objectives. we must be curious to see whether it will propose incentives for higher environmental standards in agriculture, whether it will want to reduce the use of pesticides massively and finally put a stop to the excessive use of antibiotics in livestock farming. the commission must finally recognise that substantial improvements in environmental protection and food safety can only be achieved if there is a major change in production methods and social consumption behaviour. commissioner, you could make a major contribution to this. just courage dare to do the impossible for once! perhaps then we will be able to achieve the environmental objectives in the future.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 17 april 2018.
the next item is the joint debate on: the report by michaela šojdrová, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on gender equality in the media sector in the eu (2017/2210(ini)) (a8-0031/2018); and the request for an oral reply to the commission on the empowerment of women and girls through the digital economy by agnieszka kozłowska-rajewicz, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-000004/2018 - b8-0010/2018) (2017/3016(rsp)).
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. ladies and gentlemen, only 17% of the newspaper journalistic workforce is female. on television, nine out of ten interviews are with men. statistically, in cinema and tv films from germany, for every two male protagonists, there is a woman in a leading role. in information programmes, men are more likely to speak than women (72%) and in expert panels (79%). the moderation of quiz shows and reality shows is 80% male domain. do you know how many of the german eu correspondents for private media in brussels are women? there are 40 male correspondents and only 10 female correspondents. it is time to do something about women's rights and not just make a fuss. because the people in charge of newsrooms and movie studios are concerned about this imbalance, but they don't want to change anything. we must respond with clear political demands. a mandatory quota for women in media and journalistic professions must now be enforced.
i have to say, madam president, i am in favour of promoting women in areas where they are disadvantaged. we must be careful, however, that we do not turn equal opportunities into equal outcomes, because that is the wrong way to go about it. that is why i am against rigid quotas. i don't want 50% of any position to go to women and 50% to men. instead, i want us to be 100% always taking the best and putting them in the right positions. that must be our goal. we should also remember that in such discussions we should not focus solely on career paths. we should realize that performance is also provided in families, and we must ensure that performance in families is also appropriately valued and that we do not have a conflict between work on the one hand and family on the other, but that there is a good integration. so for equal opportunities, yes, but not for equality.
the commission has already done so. for reasons of clarity, i would like to point out that it is forbidden to fire cruise missiles at foreign countries. and to our old colleague lambsdorff, who is furious because germany has cancelled its participation in this nonsense, i would like to say: dear count, if you absolutely want to go to war, nobody will stop you. there's a tradition of skydiving in the fdp. wink and smile. we can't send the bundeswehr with us. it's not working. the only thing they could do is drop a defective military device on assad's palace. a leopard 2 from 8,000 meters will go right through it. similar, by the way, to the german nato tanks in afrin, where the bosporus nut is currently waging a brutal war of aggression. a word to president macron: you give great speeches at the sorbonne. you've had the french elite career. you should know that the most important legacy of your culture is enlightenment: first you enlighten, then you shoot, not the other way around. how will you defend yourself to voltaire and diderot? ask your wife. she might have known both of them personally.
blue-card question. – thank you for reminding us that we are not talking really about european values, but about universal values: we have freedom of the press, we have the respect of human rights, and we have democracies also in other parts of the world: take japan, or take chile, or take korea as an example. don’t you believe that the constant reminding that these values are european gives the dictatorships, for instance in china, the right to say they that have their values whereas we have our values?
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking today about the fact that a committee has decided in an emergency procedure that the european union may subsidize so-called civil society organisations directly from its coffers. i already have a big problem with the procedure. how is it that on such an important subject there is no own-initiative report, which is properly decided in committee, on which there are amendments and, above all, public debates? they have opted for a backroom procedure. the committee has met to decide in a small circle something that will upend the existing system of subsidies. in your resolution you call for the introduction of a special instrument to promote european values, firstly financially and secondly directly. so money for these organizations is passed on to the government and parliament of the respective member state. of course, you think of hungary and poland with this new instrument. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i see it quite the other way around: hungary and poland are defending european diversity. they fight to preserve the nation-states. they are fighting for things not to be governed from the distant ivory tower of brussels, but they are fighting for subsidiarity. they are the true defenders of europe. i can see that this doesn't fit into your plan. they want a centrally governed, unified europe. and you're willing to go to any lengths to do it. you know you'll never get a majority of the voters to support it. but you can't choose another people. that's why you're trying to manufacture a consensus. they want to influence public opinion. i don't have to tell you that this is undemocratic. it is also illiberal and contrary to the spirit of the separation of powers. do you not realize how ridiculous you are making yourself when you accuse orbán and also the poles of violating the liberal-democratic "comment" while you trample on western democracy? i'm afraid not because you won't listen to me. i can only ask you one last question to help you get back on track: will you not learn from brexit? the way you are doing it, you are about to tear down everything that makes up europe. i find that most regrettable.
madam president, fundamental rights are under attack in the european union. some rights that we have actually taken for granted in the past are suddenly in question again and it is not the first time, because despite the fact that we call them european values, they have been undermined also in europe in the past and this has always ended in catastrophe. but this continent is stronger. our citizens are stronger, and that is why it is so important that we support the brave people who are defending fundamental rights in the european union right now, because they are not only defending their own rights, they are defending all our freedom and all our democracies at the same time, and in these difficult moments, we have to stand together as europeans and stand up for what this union is founded on. for these people, it is important to have our solidarity. but at the same time, i really think it’s about time that we also pay them credit for what they have been doing in the past and that we support them with a fundamental values instrument.
i have to say, madam president, do you know the word respect? let me quote briefly: latin respectus, "to look back, consider, consideration", also respeto, "to look back, consider", denotes a form of appreciation, attention and reverence for another being or institution. i would like to ask the question: do we here in europe still have respect for other governments? i say to you: you don't have to like the pis party, orbán, the romanian government or even the politically influential system of the judiciary in france, but we do well to respect it. unfortunately, that skill is lacking in this house. it is a pity, because it is anti-european, it is destroying europe. my appeal is: let us have the courage to be european again, to trust each other, to talk to each other instead of against each other. i invite you to go out, risk an empty parliament and meet the people again. i am doing this in the whole of germany, and it would be good for everyone here to listen to their national states once again.
president of the french republic. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. i am very pleased and honoured to accept your invitation today, mr president, to be able, as you have just said, to discuss freely the situation in europe in a very particular context. i am glad that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to speak to the house, because i have already made the proposals and made the speeches several months ago, particularly at the sorbonne, and it is this time of exchange which seems to me indispensable today in this place where you bring our europe to life every day in its various sensitivities, its divergences and its convergences, by building the indispensable compromises that make it move forward. we shall be exchanging views in a very particular context which, i believe, makes our responsibility even greater. a context which is first of all one of divisions and, at times, doubts within europe, a context in which brexit continues to be discussed and worked on. here i want to commend the work carried out over the past few months by michel barnier, but which is also one of a doubt that is being born in many of our european countries and which, month after month, has been able to bring out sensitivities that call into question what sometimes seemed to be fundamental. a context in which a form of european civil war is reappearing, in which our differences, sometimes our national egos, seem more important than what unites us in the face of the rest of the world. a context in which the fascination and i will return to this illiberal grows every day. a context in which geopolitical threats - and we will certainly return to them in the discussion - place europe with greater responsibility every day. a context of major international conflicts, such as in the levant or the sahel, but also of the emergence of great authoritarian powers and a clearly defined strategy aimed at challenging the framework of multilateralism in which europe had taken its place, and which was also the framework of its influence, in which we had collectively built peace. we are debating today at a time of great transformations linked to digital technology, global warming and its consequences, which are seriously challenging the foundations of the industrial society on which our great compromises were based, are raising fears, are leading us to re-examine some of the great balances and are forcing us to rethink the grammar of action that is collectively ours. so this moment gives us a very special responsibility. we cannot pretend that our discussions are somehow ordinary. this is the moment that separates us from the forthcoming european elections, when we will have to make our struggles for the ideals that made us live. to begin our discussion, i just want to share with you two strong convictions. the first is that if we decide to abandon our commitment to democracy and all that it brings to europe, we will be going the wrong way. the second is that in this context we can and must build a new european sovereignty, in which we will give our citizens the clear and firm answer that we can protect them and provide a response to these world disorders. (applause) i would like to thank in this world and in this difficult time, european democracy - i believe this very deeply - is our best chance. the worst mistake we could make would be to abandon our model, or rather our identity. here in strasbourg and in brussels, you are living every day the democracy in europe that tocqueville spoke of. our identity is first and foremost this democracy which respects the individual, minorities and fundamental rights, and which was called by the name i still claim, liberal democracy. i do not want to allow this deadly illusion to take hold, which, let us never forget, has plunged our continent into the abyss here, as elsewhere, this illusion of strong power, nationalism and the abandonment of freedoms. i reject the idea, which is spreading even in europe, that democracy is doomed to impotence. in the face of authoritarianism all around us, the answer is not authoritarian democracy but the authority of democracy. (applause) because this freedom emancipates and protects the individual. a parliament like yours, ours, is a european miracle. the peaceful assembly of the elected representatives of the peoples of europe to deliberate together on their differences, strong and heavy in their history and what has sometimes divided them, is a model unique in the world. we've been living off this treasure for 70 years. don't get used to it. we've taken all the risks and gone through the worst to get here. and if we want to be even more concrete, let us look around us, compare ourselves and sometimes look at those powers that can fascinate some with so-called efficiency. where else in the world do we have this same demand in matters obviously economic, geopolitical, diplomatic and military, but also respect for minorities, freedom of conscience, equality between men and women, respect for privacy? where else could you have been so alive and so strong? so there are divisions between countries, even within this house, but, beyond those divisions, this democratic model that brings us together is unique in the world. europe's identity is more than a democracy concerned about freedom. it is a unique culture in the world which combines this passion for freedom, the taste for equality, and the attachment to the diversity of ideas, languages and landscapes. this european model is neither abstract nor outdated. it is now embodied in our common commitment to protecting the environment, the climate and health. it is developing today in our approach to the digital revolution where only europeans are as committed to freedom of innovation as they are to fair regulation and the protection of their privacy. this identity clearly distinguishes us from the authoritarian powers in the first place, but today also, it must be noted, from some of our closest allies. our american partner, with whom we share so much, is now facing the temptation to withdraw and reject multilateralism, the climate challenge or trade issues. i am convinced that this model is as powerful as any other and as fragile because its strength at any given moment depends on our commitment and our demand. every day, we must defend it together. so, to live up to this commitment, the first condition is truth and responsibility. some people, blaming all our ills on a europe that has been dishonored, and thus evading their own responsibilities, tell us with aplomb that the peoples no longer want europe. they offer golden paths. sometimes you believe them. they would then evade their responsibilities when it came to leading their people to the end of this adventure. others wisely argue that we should not rush to the extreme to avoid hurrying people, that this would be playing into the hands of the populists. they want to get used to a music that we know well, that sometimes of paralysis, not being aware of the time that is ours. i think nothing is more wrong than to say that it would be convenient to dissolve the people or to excite their passions so as not to propose a way, to criticize without proposing, to destroy without building. it is not the people who have abandoned the european idea, it is the treachery of the clergy that threatens it. the anger of the peoples of europe must be heard today. it is not pedagogy that they need, but a new project, a demand for efficiency in everyday life, and those who trade in the anger they are fuelling, propose as the only future the dead end of a return to the nationalist dismemberment of yesterday. we've experienced all the ways and all the consequences. to revive the europe of the peoples, we must therefore agree to act differently, drawing on the source of democracy. let's face it: how can we be satisfied with european elections in which less than one in two citizens travel to vote? so let us build in the coming year the reality of a structured debate on convictions and proposals. we cannot do today what we did yesterday, that is to say, refuse to talk about europe, divide up the seats, blame brussels or strasbourg for all the ills. to continue to do that is to decide to have a set of cheats that may be more comfortable for each of us, but that won't solve any problems. i believe, as you do, in the nobility and complexity of democratic choice. as representatives of the peoples of europe, you embody it. you make choices every day, you make compromises, you forge solutions, because you have received the mandate of the peoples, and our common duty is to make this european democracy, which is so young at heart, live. that is why, ahead of the elections and the time constrained by the electoral campaigns, we must make the debate live, create this european public space which we have often left in ruins. it is in this spirit of experimentation and innovation that i proposed citizen consultations this year. i'll be launching this one in france this afternoon. a frank, open, tough and difficult debate, but indispensable to know what unites and what separates, to get out of the simplistic yes or no alternative to a question whose presuppositions and implicit texts are generally not examined, and to have a critical debate democratically on the europe that is ours. i am glad that all the member states have agreed to share this approach. i am aware of the commitment of president juncker and the european commission to this action and i want to thank them for it, and i also appreciate your essential role, mr president tajani, in this exercise. i want to thank you for that, too. i invite each and every one of you in your countries and throughout europe to lead and participate in these vital debates, because they are a condition of this democratic vitality. the second conviction i want to share with you is that european sovereignty is necessary. defending the european idea is not defending an abstract idea, the dilution of our own sovereignty. no, it is to recognise that, faced with these great upheavals in the world, these great transformations, at the moment we are living, we need a sovereignty stronger than our own, complementary and not a substitute, which alone will allow us, in the face of great migrations, global insecurity and economic, social and environmental transformations, to provide the right answers. this is the european sovereignty i believe in. (applause) you have done a lot on this and i want to congratulate you, but by the end of this parliamentary term, in the spring of 2019, we must achieve tangible results on several fronts: immigration, unblocking the toxic debate on the dublin regulation and relocations, but also going beyond that debate, building the external and internal solidarity that our europe needs. i therefore propose the creation of a european programme that directly supports financially the local authorities that welcome and integrate refugees. (applause) i would like to thank the second topic will be the taxation of digital technology, following the commission's proposal, by creating a short-term tax to put an end to the most shocking excesses. i support this proposal. it is essential and i hope it will help to find ways of earmarking resources for the next budget. the reform of economic and monetary union is a third front that is indispensable before the end of this parliamentary term, through the definition of a roadmap for a phased approach to banking union and the establishment of a fiscal capacity to promote stability and convergence in the euro area. finally, what holds us together is not just a currency or a treaty, but a sense of belonging, in other words a culture. and i could mention, because it is essential, the establishment of european universities which are really making progress or the deployment of erasmus, but i want to emphasize here one of your ongoing work, which is essential to me, that of copyright, the protection of creators and artistic creation. this abundance which permeates our societies is the cultural bouillon without which europe would no longer be the continent of vital diversity and creative genius. (applause) i would like to thank on these four fronts, this parliament has a special responsibility and you have understood what france's position will be. but beyond that, we must build this full and complete european sovereignty to protect our fellow citizens. in the field of internal and external security and defence, we have made great progress in recent months and i welcome the work being done by your assembly on the european defence fund. in the face of all the current tensions with some neighbours such as russia, europe has shown a face of unity and sovereignty. we need to continue this work. sovereignty is also economic and commercial. we have shown that united face here too, and i welcome the progress made in recent months, at the initiative of the commission, in the area of economic and commercial sovereignty to defend our strategic investment sectors. these were essential steps forward in the pursuit, in the commercial field - and we will certainly return to them in the debate - of a united, voluntary position precisely in the matter of developing our economic opportunities but protecting our legitimate interests, those of our workers and those of our consumers. i believe in this economic sovereignty which we must pursue through the competitiveness which each state builds up through its reforms, through the indispensable solidarity which we must further develop within the economic and monetary union and through a more realistic trade policy. sovereignty is also climate and energy sovereignty. it is indispensable. we will have to open the debate quickly to increase the european contribution under the paris agreement. we are here finishing the discussions on the energy-climate package, but it is clear that we will have to open a new stage. many of you have already committed to this and i hope that in the coming months we can reopen the debate on a carbon price floor. france will push for a minimum price and france will support a border tax on co2. it is not a technical whim or a technical instrument, it is the condition for a credible energy transition. the fourth sovereignty we must take further is that of health and food. in our daily policies, in our budgetary choices today and tomorrow, we must support high-quality food sovereignty. this is what our fellow citizens expect of us, this is what we owe them. it is good for our economies and our territory, it is good for our citizens and it is a choice consistent with our long-term commitments. the fifth sovereignty we must defend is, of course, digital sovereignty. i would like to commend you for your work in drawing up what is now seen in all international debates as the reference legislation, the legislation which protects the personal data of our citizens. where others thought we were those who were offering some sort of illegitimate protections, we are becoming the only geographical space in the world where we are promoting innovation and disruptive innovation - i will defend these choices in future debates - and where, at the same time, we are empowering ourselves to protect individual freedoms. finally, this europe of freedom and equality is based on a foundation of social values which we proclaimed together in gothenburg. this social europe is also the europe of sovereignty, of this foundation in which we believe. there are differences, but we must not allow them to become entrenched. the very meaning of the european adventure is that of increased convergence. that is why we have fought for the last few months to regulate the work of the commission. the european parliament has made it possible to improve further the compromise reached in the council and i am glad that this reform can be completed soon, and i would like to commend the work that has been done. this is precisely the image of a europe that is protective and efficient. we must continue to build these european sovereignties. they must be at the heart of a coherent project and they must feed into the philosophy of the next multiannual financial framework, and i want to conclude on this point. this budget, which we are about to discuss, must express a political project of coherence, efficiency and convergence. france is ready to increase its contribution, but to do so, it is necessary to consider a re-founding of the budget itself by creating new own resources, which i support, in the digital sector and in certain energy resources, by abolishing the rebates which would not survive brexit, by properly financing european action in the field of defence and migration, by modernising current policies and by defining conditionalities, i would say, rather, criteria for fiscal and social convergence, in particular. we must not renounce any ambition of existing policies, but we must add new ambitions to those we have. this is at least what france will be working towards in the coming months. (applause) i would like to thank as you will have understood, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is in my view the seat of european legitimacy, responsibility and therefore vitality. it is here that part of the future of europe is at stake, europe as a gathering of our sovereignties, by and with an even greater sovereignty, the one that unites us, this union for peace and solidarity offering the world a single area of stability and security. it is here that we must anchor the rebirth of a europe driven by the very spirit of its peoples. i hope that in the coming months we will be able to overcome the divisions between north and south, east and west, the small and the large, the retreat into national egoisms. i belong to a generation that has never known war. i belong to a generation that is affording itself the luxury of forgetting what our predecessors have experienced. there are many today who think that we can continue to prefer the usual confrontations, the certainties of yesterday because we have become accustomed to them, the well-known and well-considered divisions. but i also come from a land and a family that has known all the bloodshed of our past history. so the choices are simple. i don't want to be part of a generation of sleepwalkers. i don't want to be part of a generation that has forgotten its own past or that refuses to see the torments of its own present. everyone, in the times to come, will take responsibility, but i want to belong to a generation that has firmly decided to defend its democracy because it is not a word that is no longer dirty or to which we have become accustomed or in which we are languishing, it is a word that makes sense because it is the fruit of past battles. i want to belong to a generation that will defend this european sovereignty because we fought for it, because it has meaning and because it is the condition that will allow future generations to choose their future for themselves. i will not give in to any fascination with authoritarian sovereignty, i will not give in to any ease of the present times, but i think that together, our responsibility in the coming months is to organise the real european debate, to have the real european timetables which alone will allow our peoples to choose those who want a europe that no longer offers, those who want a europe of retreat, those who want a europe of habit or those who are ready to carry a europe of ambition, of a reinvented sovereignty, of a living democracy, the one we believe in.
president of the commission. mr president of the parliament, mr president of the republic, i largely agree with what the president has just said. the president of the republic, like you, mr president of parliament, wanted a manly dialogue between the president of the republic and the european parliament. i therefore take the floor without exaggeration. i would like to say first of all, as a luxembourg who i am and a european who i want to be, that i am very moved and very pleased to see the president of the republic express himself in the way he has done. the real france is back! (applause from the left) we luxembourgers, with our usual modesty, are in the habit of saying that luxembourg is the little france of the foreign countries. i therefore welcome the return of france to our midst and i would like to say to you that your election, mr president, and the electoral campaign that you ran have given europe new hope. i wish you success in your ambition during the election campaign and in the aftermath of the presidential events. you can count on the commission to support you in your approach and i hope that there will be, as is already the case today, a genuine complicity of ambition between the president of the french republic and the commission. you have shown this on many occasions, you were among those who supported all the commission's efforts to make social europe not a poem, not a dream, but a reality of today and tomorrow. may others follow you in this ambition, which is ours too! you were at the commission's side when it came to relaunching investment europe, the juncker plan as it was known at the time, today's efsi, which led to the mobilisation of €273 billion in investment, including €41 billion in france. so our joint approach is producing results. i would like you to continue to co-lead the european fight for commercial sovereignty. i do not want to see this sad spectacle of a europe on offer in international trade policy. i would like europe to remain open but not to be a europe of the 'gifted'. we have common interests to defend, particularly in the steel industry, among others. i would like us to work together to ensure that the gap that often divides europe between east and west is bridged by a renewed common ambition. i believe that the fate of europe is not to be written by dividing and turning against each other. europe is one. (applause) i know how much you value the franco-german friendship and i am geographically and historically very much in favour of many rapprochements between these two countries and these two nations. however, let us not forget that europe is not only franco-german. we are 28, tomorrow 27 and we also need the input of others to keep the engine running. we are 27 and not just french or german. (applause) i would like to thank i would like our radar of the future to continue to signal the fate of the peoples of the balkans. i would like to recall the european perspective we proposed to the western balkan countries in 2003 in thessaloniki, greece - a city i like very much, since i had the honour of being made an honorary doctor of the university of thessaloniki. so i have a deep attachment to this city, not only for historical reasons, but also for personal reasons. in 2003, we decided to give the countries of the western balkans a credible european perspective. i am aware of all the difficulties surrounding this subject which the commission will be discussing today with federica mogherini and others. i am not naive, i am aware of the difficulties, the efforts that the countries of the western balkans must make, the need to improve the performance of certain countries in the western balkans in certain areas, but if we take away from these countries, in this extremely complicated - i should say tragic - region, the european perspective, we will experience again what we experienced in the 1990s. i do not want a return to war in the western balkans! we must be committed to this ambition. (applause) finally, i support the approach of the president of the republic, who wants to launch this citizens' dialogue. it is in fact an extension of an initiative of the commission, which we call the citizens' dialogues. i have taken part in many of these dialogues, and we have conducted over 500 in all the member states of the european union. i encourage the president of the republic, the french government and the minister for european affairs to make this a major event, not only in france but throughout europe. europe deserves a thorough democratic debate. in fact, tomorrow's history is written today. i wish we could write it together. (applause from the left)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, the european parliament, this house, has waited a long time for a pro-european french president like mr macron. president macron, my group is glad to have you here. france is a proud country, but you know france can only be strong if europe is strong. you spoke today about the values of europe, about our common union of values. and you are right, secondly, to convince europeans it is important that europe must deliver – protect our borders, stabilise our euro, fight against terrorism, common defence, fair taxation – the list is long and you can rely on the ppe as a strong partner in this agenda. concrete projects and values: this has always been the approach for convincing people about europe over the last decades. so why, today, is europe under so much pressure and even in crisis? my answer is: people do not feel involved. the reality is that they still see europe as an external power and not as their own project. the key question for the future of europe is: who has the power? the people in europe, or some elite groups? to answer this question we do not have to invent anything new. we simply have to practise what is the essence of europe, what has been fought for over generations with blood, sweat and tears; we must dare to practise parliamentary democracy in the future. you spoke about democracy. i want to be a little bit more precise. what makes parliamentary democracy such a strong force? it gives people a say and brings them together. when my voice matters, i care, i engage, i belong, and i am willing to work for a greater common good. and what if my voice does not count? then it starts to feel like this is not my europe. this is visible everywhere today: in newspaper headlines, in facebook comments and in voting turnout. when you lose people, you lose europe. it is good to knock on the doors of europeans and ask for their opinion on europe, and many members of this european parliament are doing this on a daily basis; to speak, to convince, to discuss with europeans. but it makes, in the end, a big difference, and you know this: to simply stand in front of people and ask them their opinion (afterwards you can care or not), or whether you stand in front of people and ask for their vote, because then the people have the power. that is why we need parliamentary democracy. and now to be more precise. true democracy does not work just during the meetings of the heads of state or government. too often, they postpone their decisions, too often, they only look at who is the loser, who is the winner, and tomorrow’s headlines at home. true democracy does not mean decisions are taken behind closed doors. true democracy means more than just a meeting – and jean-claude juncker has already said this – between angela merkel and emmanuel macron: the franco—german axis is important but it is not europe. europe is much, much, much, much more. (applause) true democracy does not mean denying responsibility. leaders and national ministers cannot keep blaming and shaming brussels for their own decisions, and true democracy does not mean dividing us into good and bad europeans. i respect the will of the voters in every member state, whether it pleases me or not. so what is true democracy? president macron, just take a look around here. the chamber of the european parliament is the right place to discuss this. every citizen is given a voice here. you can find communists, you can find conservatives, christian democrats, liberals, greens, social democrats and even right-wing extremists. some people call this old europe: i call this democratic europe, where people recognise themselves, with their concerns and needs, with their different views and with their representatives. the european parliament is the political landscape of our continent and they can be proud of this. there is no vote on a president of europe, there is no european-wide referendum. there is simply only one event where all europeans together are asked for their opinion on europe. political issues in europe must be in the hands of the voters during the european elections, just as national interest issues are in the hands of voters during national elections. and for the same reason, the european parliament is the only place to elect and to control the european executive bodies – the commission, or, as i call it, the government of europe. this is why the people must be given the right to decide who will become the next president of the european commission. candidates must stand for election, must defend their programme, explain to people what they stand for and, finally, they have to look for the support of a majority of this chamber of freely-elected members of the european parliament. (applause) this is how the german bundestag works. this is how the spanish cortes works, this is how the polish sejm works. it is simply parliamentary democracy in practice, which gives the power to the people. and let’s call a spade a spade. not a college, but a government; not a commissioner, but a minister; not a regulation, but a law; it would make things understandable for people if we were to do so. and those who want to become a commissioner next year should probably run in the european elections. let the people decide who the government should send to the commission next year. other elements are equally important. a true democracy can only survive if it has common basic convictions. there is no french, german or croatian way of life, there is only a european way of life, and we can be proud of this fundament. it is unique in the world. a true democracy in europe also means believing in a vision. politicians like kohl, delors and mitterrand have made the impossible possible because they followed their european dream. but again, the key question for true democracy is: when this parliament decides to freeze the negotiation process with turkey, then the process has to be really frozen. when this parliament is deciding about strengthening the external border, then frontex officers have to be sent to the external border, and when this parliament decides to introduce free interrail passes, then the project has to see the light of day. so the people of europe must decide – and we are representatives of the people of europe – about the future of the european project. if we ignore the european people, the people will ignore us, and that is what we are facing sometimes today. so let us rebuild europe as the most successful form of government ever invented by man: a parliamentary democracy. and i know this idea is not welcomed by everybody, but we have to overcome our trauma. since 2005 we have been discussing more about red lines and not enough about ambitions. the french say no more treaty change, the germans say no more money, the central europeans say no more brussels. i tell you, my main fear is not another brexit; my main fear is a frightened europe, and we will not be able to cope with the next crisis if we go on with this, so let’s start now. today we have the president of france with us. with his forward-looking approach for europe we can achieve a lot. the ppe is ready to work for a democratic europe with ambitious projects, but in the end the people are the owners of the european dream and the european future. as a young student, i was very much marked by the history of the ‘weisse rose’. young people, students in munich – the youngest was sophie scholl, 22-years-old – were arrested by the gestapo in february 1943. they had used flyers to call for resistance against the nazis. i quote from one of their flyers: ‘the imperialist idea of power must be disarmed whatever side it comes from, for all time. [...] only with generous cooperation between the peoples of europe will it be possible to create the ground on which a new construction is possible. [...] freedom of speech, freedom of confession, protection of individual citizens from the arbitrariness of violent criminal states, these are the foundations of a new europe.’ in munich 1943, four young people were executed for these ideas. this has always motivated me to carry on their dream, dear friends. (applause)and i am sure they would be proud of what has been achieved during the last decades, a europe of peace and freedom. and the task of my generation now is to build up a real democratic europe, but the future is in the hands of the people of this continent, a true parliamentary democracy for europe. let us begin. (loud applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to welcome president macron on behalf of the socialists and democrats. in these days where the enemies of europe, those who would like to fight the european project, shout out their hate, and in these days where fake news is governing whole countries, we need to certify and to reconfirm that we need this united europe and we need a strong europe. somebody like you, president macron, having dedicated his own faith to his commitment on europe, is very warmly welcomed in this house. thank you for your courage. thank you for your pro-european stance. we need that and we would like to see more leaders doing the same. just look at the slaughtering in syria and what happened over the weekend. but, please, this is a real case for a unified europe. this is a real case for strengthening the european institutions. this is a real case for strengthening federica mogherini, the high representative, the united nations and antónio guterres. so please work in that direction. more is needed than the action of member states. look at the facebook scandal. look at the situation in europe and world-wide. data protection is at the top of the agenda today. but, just as we need european institutions to strengthen our foreign policy, we need european legislation. facebook needs european legislation. facebook urgently needs the community method and our group, the socialists and democrats, proudly lead on e—privacy and on general data protection. please support us in the council. and now, forgive me, when i start to talk about the relationship between paris and berlin, i feel tempted to switch to my native tongue. herr präsident, mit wem wollen sie arbeiten? wer ist ihr partner? es ist richtig, dass wir die beethoven-hymne singen – die europahymne. aber es reicht nicht, rote teppiche abzuschreiten und die hymne zu singen. wir müssen unseren traum wirklichkeit werden lassen und nebenbei, wenn wir über geschichte in deutschland reden: friedrich schiller der den text zu dieser großartigen europahymne geschrieben hat, hat es getan gegen die deutsche kleinstaaterei, gegen die napoleonischen kriege und zu einer zeit, wo die liberalen gerade dabei waren zu entdecken, dass ihre idee der freiheit der menschen nur in einer gesellschaft der gleichen, nur in einer gesellschaft der brüderlichkeit und der schwesterlichkeit wirklichkeit werden kann. wenn wir uns heute fragen „wo hapert es denn in europa? “, lassen sie uns zu den wurzeln zurückgehen. wenn diese europäische idee der universellen freiheit die menschen betrübt, weil sie nicht eine welt der brüderlichkeit und der schwesterlichkeit schafft, dann wird die axt an das europäische projekt gelegt, und das ist mit der grund, warum wir heute schwierigkeiten haben, und daran müssen wir erinnern, um es zu überwinden. also wieder die frage: mit wem wollen sie arbeiten? sie haben schwere tage vor sich. „madame no“ in berlin hat schon gezeigt, wie schwierig es werden wird, die reform der wirtschafts- und währungsunion zu betreiben, und die vielen kleinen mini-schäubles, die sich da anlässlich der debatten auch heute im deutschen bundestag jetzt schon positionieren, werden ihnen das geschäft nicht erleichtern. (zwischenrufe und beifall.) welche geschichte lernen wir? es ist nicht die zwischenstaatlichkeit. nein, sie brauchen eine starke europäische kommission. sie brauchen eine starke europäische kommission, unterstützt von einem starken europäischen parlament. nur das wird die wirtschafts- und währungsunion voranbringen, und dafür stehen die europäischen sozialdemokraten, meine damen und herren. wenn sie nach einem zwischenstaatlichen projekt mit berlin suchen, habe ich einen vorschlag: gehen sie zu angela merkel und sagen sie ihr: „pass auf, angela, du reduzierst drastisch den gebrauch von kohle und ich reduziere drastisch den gebrauch des atomstroms.“ das wäre das beste bilaterale projekt, das frankreich und deutschland einer nachhaltigen entwicklung der europäischen union andienen könnten. (beifall) sie haben die richtige parole gewählt:europe is about protecting our people. europa muss seine menschen beschützen. aber warum blockieren sie dann das paket zur vereinbarkeit von beruf und privatleben im rat? wir haben gekämpft um dieses paket, und wir wollen erreichen, dass die mutter nach der babypause zurückkommen kann und selber entscheiden darf, wann sie in der familie und wann sie am arbeitsplatz ist. das ist eine wichtige sache, die wir gemeinsam voranbringen können. warum blockieren wir die finanztransaktionssteuer, wenn es um gerechtigkeit geht? (beifall) warum schaffen wir nicht mehr für eine europäische körperschaftsteuer, wenn wir die großkonzerne besteuern wollen? und nicht zuletzt: europas würde entscheidet sich im umgang mit flüchtlingen. sind sie sicher, dass das, was im moment in frankreich unternommen wird, der größe der nation und der europäischen würde entspricht? ich habe fragezeichen. sozialdemokraten kämpfen seit mehr als 150 jahren – seit mehr als 150 jahren! – für ein vereintes und für ein solidarisches europa. das ist nicht immer das europa der roten teppiche, aber das ist ganz sicher das europa der schulen und hochschulen, der werkshallen und der marktplätze. ich glaube, herr präsident, sie müssen sich entscheiden: wenn sie mit den menschen sein wollen, werden sie in meiner fraktion freunde finden. aber das muss dann wirklichkeit werden in unserer gemeinsamen konkreten politik. wir wünschen ihnen glück, aber wir wünschen ihnen auch, dass sie sich richtig entscheiden! (beifall)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. congratulations on winning the european theme! people are really dissatisfied with the european union. some want europe to stay out of things, but others want more europe. when mr bullmann talks about social issues, in my own country only 25% of the people want europe to take more care of the social policy. but 75% of the people in my home country want more european migration and asylum policies. they want a common right to asylum, a common asylum procedure and uniform benefits. let's get on with it. three quarters of the people in my country want a better european foreign and defence policy. now, in the framework of pesco, they have agreed to develop a fighter jet together by 2040. this is ridiculous! can't we do this faster and more intensely? and three quarters want more protection at europe's external borders. the budget too: 10,000 frontex soldiers would cost us just 600 million euros a year. this is a little more than one euro per citizen, and we would really be addressing a core issue of people's expectations of the european union. i would be very, very grateful if we could not only talk here, but above all deliver in the months leading up to the election.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, the issue of nord stream 2 is part of the european solidarity you have mentioned in the field of energy policy. this is the issue that is currently dividing the european member states. nord stream 2 would increase europe's dependence on russian gas at a time when, as you said earlier, it is important for europe to have a clear common position on russia. this parliament is rejecting nord stream 2 by a majority. how will you help us prevent this false project?
in writing. i share macron's view that the european parliament has a major role to play in shaping the future of the eu. we are the institution directly elected by the citizens. we are the link between the needs of citizens and policy making. i hope that parliament's position will be taken more seriously in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what is the un global compact on migration? flight and migration are global challenges, and most refugees are outside the european union in regions that are much poorer and often more unstable than our continent. but all states must contribute, including by accepting and integrating refugees. and that the united states, whose citizens were almost all immigrants, should be the one to escape this challenge is a travesty of history. the eu is in a good position in the negotiations with one exception: orbán is stoking fears in his country with lies about the causes of flight and migration, and he also does not want to shape global migration, but to prevent it. in our resolution we also call for the fight against racism and misinformation. i find it almost unbearable what i have to hear here today, and we should start fighting false reports here in the house as well. there is no mass migration in europe. if we had distributed the arrivals in 2015 equally among all countries, based on the population, for example, in hungary, exactly 30,000 would have arrived, in germany, exactly 240,000 instead of 880,000. i think it is outrageous that you are saying that the majority of europe's citizens do not want migration ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) (the president cut the speaker off) (the speaker declines to answer a question from mr woolfe under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this discussion shows very clearly what is particularly wrong with the migration crisis: there is far too much ideology in this issue. and i think, frankly, it's just inhuman that some people here now pretend to have the philosopher's stone, which says, we just need to open up more, we need to be more receptive to migrants, we need to provide them with safe passage and so on. it all sounds wonderful, but it's an illusion! we can see that in europe - and in particular in some countries, including germany - there is mass migration, and we must keep an eye on the feasibility of this. this feasibility has not only been achieved, but exceeded in some municipalities in germany. mrs sippel, you are well aware that some mayors in germany write letters of protest saying: 'we are no longer in control of the situation.' as you can say: "it's all theoretically solvable somehow". "i'm sorry, i have no understanding at all". (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you very much for this question. i was in africa. i have also spoken to the members of parliament who are responsible for this, and one thing is clear: if we in germany, for example, have to spend 20 000 euros a year to take care of a refugee, we could use the same amount to help 50 or even 100 people in north africa. this alone should make us think whether we are starting at the right place.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. before mrs merkel came to parliament, vice-president timmermans said: 'thank you, mrs merkel, it is now possible for the 100 to 140 million black people from africa to come to europe. mr avramopoulos, you say that the first state in europe is resisting and does not want to join this global pact. the u.s. is out. yeah, what's that about? why don't you even have a referendum in europe and let the people vote on what the people actually want? i say that europe cannot and does not want to integrate this mass upheaval. ask the people who want to live in the cities, in the areas, in the suburbs with the alienation. they had to introduce special laws in all the european countries so that today hardly any citizen dares to say: i've had enough. we have to change something in this policy.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think we are on the right track with our resolution. we need to show our citizens that we want and can manage migration sustainably. we are concerned with lasting solutions, that is, with the resettlement of refugees, with local integration and also with return, and above all with addressing the causes of flight locally. what we need is better international coordination, common binding objectives, solidarity and partnership between countries of origin, transit and host countries. this is also the key to a better approach to migration. the so-called migration pact and the refugee pact are important steps in this direction. they help to improve the implementation of existing principles and obligations. we european social democrats stand unitedly and unequivocally behind the work of the united nations. because we need to create perspectives and address the causes of global injustice through an equal and fair partnership with africa, for example. that includes fair trade, which is something we need to talk about here. on this basis, we can work together to achieve more effective development cooperation, conflict resolution and sustainable economic growth. that's our first priority. it's not about charity. it's about justice and solidarity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the un compact on migration and refugees confuses two things: economic migration and refugees and asylum seekers who are only seeking temporary protection and should be given it, which is not migration at all. it has been said quite correctly: we have millions of migrants, and only a fraction of them reach europe. and yet we are already debating whether this is mass immigration to europe. but we are only helping a fraction of them, whereas with the same money we can actually help many, many millions more refugees on the ground. this un pact is now intended to increase incentives and opportunities for migration and thus exacerbate problems in the destination countries. it is already very bitter, mrs sippel. you can continue the debate if you cite the most disastrous example of migration, the united states, as an example.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the contribution made in part by the enf and the non-attached members is shameful, because we do not see any political will to solve the problems, but only the intention to make political capital out of the difficult situation in which we find ourselves. fidesz and jobbik did very well in the elections from their point of view - unfortunately. unfortunately, many of their fellow citizens have become complacent in this situation. i think the global compact is a good opportunity. we are united in the eu with the exception of one country, hungary. viktor orbán is the one who is making us untrustworthy as the eu. he and hungary must stand by what is common ground: we stand by human rights, and that includes the right to provide reasonable care for refugees who come to us. we must take care of what happens to the children and the women, and we must find solutions. all i've heard is the opposite of what's needed. we need - some of the previous speakers have said this - a strengthening of development cooperation. we were too late. but if we tackle the causes of flight, we are on the right track.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the brussels donors' conference on syria next week should focus on the following areas: protection of the civilian population, humanitarian aid and support for refugees, prospects for a peaceful syria. during the military offensive in eastern ghouta that began in february, the syrian army and its allies committed massive war crimes by heavily bombing the besieged civilian population, killing and injuring thousands. ten days ago, the syrian army allegedly used chemical weapons against civilians in the city of douma. it is important that these allegations are now investigated by inspectors from the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons on the ground. the use of weapons of mass destruction must remain an absolute taboo. a longer-term presence of international inspectors in syria is needed to ensure the complete destruction of the chemical weapons stockpile there. i strongly oppose the military strikes by the united states, france and the united kingdom last weekend. without an international mandate and combined with president trump's war rhetoric, this military action posed a significant risk of a conflagration. and it is important that the international community is committed to ensuring that all those responsible for war crimes committed in syria are held to account. i therefore welcome the fact that the eu foreign ministers have made this clear once again this week. finally, the syrian conference must make it clear that only political negotiations can provide a prospect for a peaceful syria. for a resolution of the conflict, there must be an immediate ceasefire. this will require bringing all parties back to the negotiating table. the european union must also contribute to this by means of a coordinated european diplomacy. the conference of donors must guarantee humanitarian aid in the region in the long term. in addition, scope for further support measures should be explored with civil society representatives.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. i think it was a good decision to focus your speech on what needs to be done and how the eu wants to act in order to ultimately contribute to ending the unsustainable, inhumane conditions and the involvement of global nuclear powers in this conflict and to a stable long-term solution. the problem is that some of the heads of government, those responsible - also within the eu - are now pretending that what happened last weekend was more or less a symbolic act, a kind of sandbox game. but i don't think we're in a sandbox, and everyone - at least that was my impression - was glad that there was no further escalation. but how can it be that on the one hand we talk about wanting diplomatic, political solutions, that we talk about the unsustainable situation even within the un security council due to the veto policy of some states - in particular russia - and on the other hand we tremble at the fact that russia will hopefully not respond with adequate measures to what the us, france and the uk have unleashed? it was a fatal mistake for russia to terminate the joint un investigation mechanism last year after it was proven that chemical weapons were used by the assad regime a year ago. and it is all to be done to get back to common investigative mechanisms so that it finally comes to light, and those responsible must be punished. that's not in dispute in this house. but what is controversial is to what extent self-selection without prior evidence actually opens the political and diplomatic doors and brings all parties to the table. that's not the case! what happened was counterproductive, and that must be said loud and clear! our job is to really bring everyone in and prevent a few wildlings from thinking that they can play sandbox games to satisfy their own egos, but ultimately endanger the lives of hundreds of thousands of people. and i must say something else: if the aim was to destroy production sites for chemical weapons, then this is as dangerous as saying, for example, that you want to punish a violation of international law by responding with a violation of international law. the destruction of weapons production facilities causes the release of weapons. this puts people at risk, puts the future and the lives and health of people at risk. and i would like to know if there is any information on this, how much ammunition has been released and how much has changed. this needs to be investigated just like all the previous allegations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. we are fortunately, i think, all in agreement: the use of chemical weapons cannot be justified. this is a heinous crime against humanity which we all want to condemn and fight. we should also agree that military action should be taken only after it is proven who did it. mrs lochbihler of the greens has just rightly said: 'this must be investigated and then we can react.' what has happened is the opposite, and mr weber defended that very eloquently here yesterday when the subject came up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. you mean shoot first, negotiate later? it can't be like this. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of chemical weapons. we have no clear evidence, as far as i know, that this was the assad government. shouldn't this be checked carefully first? and then can't you consider what steps to take? and then, is not the last of all the steps to be taken the use of military force? we cannot therefore agree with the reaction that has been given without clearly examining what the actual facts are. emotionality, as it is presented here, is the worst counselor in such a difficult matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. a few days ago, the us, france and the uk decided to show the assad regime with missiles that there are limits. international law prohibits the use of chemical weapons. but anyone who uses them will have to expect our clear opposition. it may be that the timing of such action was necessary. i would have been more comfortable if, firstly, the outcome of the opcw investigation had been awaited and, secondly, it had been incorporated into a real strategy. i cannot see a syrian strategy - not from the eu, not from the west, and certainly not from the usa. the desire to take out assad is very understandable after his crimes against his own people. but that is for the syrians to decide. it's not a strategy by itself. i very much hope that the governments of the member states will give the high representative a clear mandate and the necessary authority to bring the parties involved to the table, in a clear and open manner, under the umbrella of the un in geneva, on behalf of all of them, in order to achieve through negotiations that the people of syria, free from war, free from fear, can decide for themselves their future. the brussels conference can be a first step in this direction. mrs mogherini said earlier that she wanted to act more strongly than in the past. there's nothing to add to that.
these were the participants in the spontaneous wording procedure. i regret that i cannot give the floor to the others. this is also due to the fact that many, many of our colleagues simply overdo their time. we simply do not have time to give everyone the floor. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in russia (2018/2669 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i do not know if i can speak for my group at all. we have been wondering until now what we really want to discuss. the situation in russia hasn't told us much. and i will tell you a secret: why more than 720 members of parliament have not come here to discuss this, the council has not come here at all, and the commission has only brought in those who are likely to be prosecuted if they do not come: it's just that we're doing the same thing over and over again. we have a long list of things that we don't like, that are against international law, that are maybe just "highly likely" -- that's the new word choice of some -- and then we figure out where we need to be a little bit more forceful. and that was it. but i think politics is just getting started. this includes sanctions on the one hand, but it also includes much more confidence-building measures. it's very difficult. it's hard for me to imagine how this is going to work. but if we don't overcome our silence, if we are content to always list what other people are doing wrong, and that perhaps there is a sanction for it, then it won't work, and i'm starting to get scared. the start treaty expires in two years. what about the inf treaties? we have to find a way to talk to each other again. i would ask the commission, the high representative, to think more about this than has been possible so far. and secondly and lastly, we as a parliament must return to dialogue with our colleagues, and that means that the work of the cooperation committee must finally begin again. if we have nothing to say to each other, we don't need to talk about each other, because nothing will get better.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i must admit that i was a little confused when i thought about today's debate, but not because i think we should only debate when we have a new strategy for russia in mind. i am sorry to say that mr fleckenstein has now left, as have the 720 colleagues he has just addressed. i think that what we have done so far has not gone far enough. there are two camps in the european union. some say: "this was all too much and wrong in tone, and we must once again be more lenient in our dealings with russia". and the others say, "this is all not consistent enough, and we have to work on it". i believe that this can go on for a while and that this indecision of the european union is one of our major problems and more likely a guarantee of failure. the european union has never declared itself an enemy of russia or the kremlin. since i have been observing the conflict very clearly at least with the occupation of crimea and the beginning of the war in donbass, but also around such events as the bombing of syria, for example aleppo, or the poison gas attack in the uk i already think it becomes clear: russia is sending the signal that it wants to show the west that it is strong and that it is somehow defending itself against what has developed in the west. how to deal with it, whether, for example, after the reaction to this air strike on chemical plants in syria, we now have a new moment to talk about it, i find that exciting. i think what president macron said in the debate today was correct. i think that we have to keep exploring all the possibilities for change in the kremlin. but when it gets as difficult as in the donbass, with a ceasefire in syria and recently russia has done everything to support new escalations, they have supported the turks in afrin, they have positioned iran in its new position of power in syria if we fail, then actually the instrument we have given ourselves with sanctions is one that we need to further develop. the eu must be prepared to use its economic strength in such conflicts... (the president cut the speaker off)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. yes, our debate in the european parliament on the situation in russia has long been conducted as if it were a matter of "fair versus unfair" or "rule-based versus ruleless". but above all, it is a conflict of interests and the question of who will prevail globally and thus also nationally. so we are also taking an exact inventory here - i am with my colleagues. for years, the rulers in russia have been pursuing the same political approaches as the eu: privatization, tax avoidance, corruption, liberalization or withdrawal of the state from social services. but the same policies also produce similar results: real wage cuts, increasing poverty and thus also fear of the future, or the desire for a little 'stability' on the one hand and the vastly growing wealth of the few dollar billionaires and millionaires on the other. the recent elections have confirmed that the foreign policy of the "putin system" is also widely accepted in the libertarian urban milieu. national pride is insatiable, and its policies eat up important resources. the partners therefore have to meet again today...
we have just had the british-british discussion. we need that all the time. i now turn to the other speakers. i want to make it very clear that after five seconds of exaggeration, i will withdraw because we are already in a very long time lag.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have heard it today, the list of russian aggression is long: from crimea to eastern ukraine, from the ongoing attempts to destabilise countries like georgia and moldova, from the events in salisbury, from cyberattacks, disinformation campaigns to support for the barbaric assad regime in syria. i think that the vast majority of this parliament very much regrets that this unacceptable policy of moscow represents a significant step backwards for our relations, a step backwards for which moscow is responsible. russia is, of course, our greatest neighbour, with whom we want to guarantee peace in europe, the integrity of national borders and the sovereignty of all states on the basis of the osce principles. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this is the policy of the russian president and his clique in moscow, but there is more to it than that, and i think it is good that our german president, frank-walter steinmeier, has recently said: 'we must not declare russia as a whole, the country and its people, to be the enemy, quite apart from putin'. a relationship with russia based on mutual trust and peaceful balancing of interests remains our goal. unfortunately, we're a long way from that. to achieve this, we should also strengthen civil society cooperation with russia. it is about direct personal contacts, especially with young people, and the erasmus+ programme can make a valuable contribution to this.
blue-card question. – you said you would not like russia to develop into an authoritarian system. what kind of system do you think president putin and others have established in russia?
i think there's been a misunderstanding. but it's always good to have something like this cleared up.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. spontaneous speech
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the prospects for peace on the korean peninsula in the light of recent developments (2018/2643 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not not long ago, korea was threatened by nuclear war. fortunately, this situation has now improved considerably. we can even see at the moment that there is a will for cooperation between north and south korea. the meeting on 27 april has already been mentioned. we welcome these very positive effects. but that is far from a cause for optimism, because we have to look at the situation in the whole area. and here i see at least one big problem with japan, whose defense still has big gaps and that is obviously in the sights of russia. the russian navy's activities around japan are significant. the situation on the korean peninsula cannot therefore be viewed independently. and we still don't know what the north korean president really wants. on the one hand, he has achieved what he has long wanted to achieve, namely, a certain international recognition. he has also eased the pressure that has been put on him, especially by china. but whether all this is enough to pacify the situation is questionable. i therefore urge the high representative to take a more active role in this area and to seek a peaceful solution.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not in mathematics, there's a rule: minus times minus is plus. i hope that this can be applied to politics. a face-to-face meeting between the crazy and unpredictable leader of north korea and the equally crazy and unpredictable mr. "america first". maybe something good will come of it. there's at least one positive aspect to this: as long as they're talking to each other, they're not shooting at each other. but what can donald trump really offer the north korean leader for scrapping his nuclear weapons? the nuclear missiles are the best life insurance for kim jong un. on the other hand, donald trump desperately needs a foreign policy success to cover up the many domestic failures. so as far as the negotiations are concerned, i am sticking to the principle of hope, as expressed by the german philosopher ernst bloch. after that, the talks end peacefully and in absolute perfection or in absolute disaster. let's hope mr. trump makes a great deal. the most incredible things are possible these days, especially in politics.
mr president, two weeks ago, following a visit to japan, i had the honour of leading a committee on foreign affairs delegation to south korea. some of our colleagues who were on this trip are present in the plenary. i see that mr czarnecki, mr brok, ms gill and ms šuica are here. during our political talks in seoul, our delegation underlined that the eu and the european parliament have been long—standing supporters of respect for international law, universal values and, in particular, of nuclear non—proliferation. we conveyed three main messages. firstly, in the light of the latest promising developments on the korean peninsula, we supported the opening of a new high-level dialogue with north korea. secondly, we recalled that this dialogue should aim at a peaceful resolution and at the denuclearisation of the korean peninsula. thirdly, we emphasised that pressure on north korea must be maintained until the regime in pyongyang delivers in a concrete manner. a final remark: regarding the prospects of the ultimate goal of reunification of the two koreas, the case of my home country, germany, has taught us that such a process can take a very long time, but it has also shown that all of a sudden things can move very quickly once the process has begun. therefore, i sincerely wish the korean people all the best.
mr president, madam president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. let me now put forward two descriptions that we must not forget: south korea is a democracy and democracies should always be supported. north korea is a cruel dictatorship. this is a picture that you have to see as a prerequisite. but we should make sure that the talks between the two koreas are supported. we should ensure that nuclear weapons are eliminated, for the sake of security in the region, but also to give more credibility to the non-proliferation treaty as a whole. that is why we are asking our american friends not to abandon the nuclear deal with iran. because if you give it up, north korea has an alibi to prove none of it. there's an internal connection here that we need to see. i am pleased, if we have our information, that for the first time since january the people's republic of china has fully turned to sanctions against north korea - significant restrictions on oil supplies and the like - in order to push north korea to do more to pursue a peaceful solution. this is a very important step where you have to see - and america has to watch - that china is increasingly presenting itself as a force for order in the region, which is what we also experienced on this trip that mr mcallister spoke about in japan. but i think that we should try to support the solutions there, to support the unity, even if it is difficult, but one thing is clear: in this whole process we must not forget the freedom and peace for south korea.
mr president, the honourable presidency of the council! i welcome the recent signs of an inter-korean rapprochement process which has intensified in recent weeks. it is essential that this dialogue be maintained with international support. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. therefore, china and russia must continue to use their influence on the leadership in pyongyang to prevent the regime from further nuclear and missile tests in violation of international law. similarly, us president donald trump should use diplomacy and discretion when meeting kim jong un in may, and use the un and eu-backed sanctions programme against the north korean leadership as leverage. in the long term, the iran nuclear deal serves as a reference for a possible deal with north korea. that is why it is imperative that president trump back off from his plan to unilaterally terminate the iran deal. the european union should contribute its mediation role and diplomatic strength to advancing inter-korean talks and international negotiations on the denuclearisation of north korea.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. on 1 march two greek soldiers entered a military exclusion zone in turkish territory - quite obviously without intention, i.e. by mistake. you were arrested by the turkish military and have been in custody ever since. we know these two soldiers were on patrol in an area where there's a lot of illegal border crossings. so they protected the eu's external border. everything, everything, indicates that it was an accidental crossing of the border in bad weather. this does not prevent the turkish side from accusing the two soldiers of nato partner greece of military espionage and of entering a military exclusion zone but without a real charge, as would be customary in a state governed by the rule of law. this is unacceptable! and it is obvious that erdoğan wants to use the imprisoned soldiers as a pawn to force greece to extradite suspected turkish coup plotters. this approach is also unacceptable. and that is why we here in the european parliament today, by a large majority, call for the speedy conclusion of the judicial process and the release of the detainees. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the commission's report published today reinforces this picture. he comes to a devastating verdict: turkey is moving further and further away from the eu. the continuing undermining of human rights and the rule of law and the disproportionate treatment in afrin are just a few examples. despite some progress in the area of market economy and migration policy, the eu cannot negotiate new deals with this turkey and this regime. i have already said in the last debate on turkey that it is up to the turkish government itself to decide whether it wants to be part of our community of values or whether it wants to become an increasingly illiberal autocracy. the latter has no place in the eu.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the involvement of parliament in the form of the so-called strategic dialogue between parliament, the eeas and the commission has so far been nothing more than occupational therapy for members, in which the eeas and the commission have been dragged through 90-minute meetings with generalist positions. it had nothing to do with intelligence or even cooperation or parliamentary control. the proposed merger of all the financial instruments into one will worsen this state of parliamentary non-participation. we reject that. this is also the case in the context of the increasing diversion of the financial resources of the instruments concerned. once thought of as civilian instruments for improving socioeconomic development and peacebuilding, they are now being subordinated to eu security and economic interests. the eu-turkey deal on refugee protection was co-financed by the pre-accession facility. the instrument for stability and peace, conceived as a purely civilian instrument for development, disarmament, reintegration, conflict prevention and peaceful conflict resolution, has also been available since last autumn for the training, maintenance and equipping of armies in third countries. this is the complete subordination of civilian and development policies to military and security policies. the use of development aid for military purposes is a declaration of bankruptcy for peaceful purposes. that is why we abstain from voting on the report, but we support all the proposals for democratic participation.
madam president, mr mimica, you are very welcome. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her report and add two points. firstly, the funds earmarked for development cooperation must in no case be used to finance the military in partner countries. the commission has already made a successful attempt to do this last year with the member states and the commission, and i see no reason why we should now fall back on this. the instrument for stability and peace should therefore be given special consideration in the planning of the multiannual financial framework from 2020 onwards. we are waiting for the commission's proposal, which i hope will take this into account. secondly, the eu and most member states have not fulfilled their commitments to spend 0.7% of gni on official development cooperation. in this context, their financing needs to be extended in the context of the future design of the external financing instruments beyond 2020.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. if i have just heard this last speech, the end of the world is again imminent, and the chances of these negotiations are not being recognized. we need to see that australia is a democracy like us, based on the same values, and that it is necessary that in this world of cooperation between states that are not democracies, and in which my predecessor never sees a problem - be it china, be it russia - that cooperation between democracies needs to be strengthened in these times of geostrategic uncertainty. the strengthening of free world trade is a strengthening of our own prosperity, our social policy as well as a strengthening of the stability of this world, and we have to see that after the withdrawal of the americans from tpp and some alleged cooperation of the united states with china at the expense of other countries in the pacific area like japan it is extremely important that the european commission goes into this vacuum and makes agreements as it has done with south korea where this will be completed soon, with japan, now australia, new zealand, and i believe that we should be stronger in latin america. i believe that the democracies of the world should unite for the social and economic benefit of our citizens and for the defense of peace and justice in a world order that provides security, and that is why i thank the commission for the policy of moving forward quickly on this.
the commission has already done so. thank you very much for the opportunity to say two sentences. i believe that these principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are crucial for legitimacy, but also for decision-making efficiency. because it's an important tool of legitimacy and organization to make a difference here. but at the same time we must see that these two principles have a sister, which is the principle of solidarity. so we should always remember that this has to be in balance. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the proposals put forward by the rapporteur. and that's why we always have to see the balance between things. i would like to remind you once again that the european national parliaments naturally play an important role here. we are always talking about the yellow card, but there is also the orange card in the lisbon treaty, which must be taken into account and is too seldom mentioned, and which strengthens the role of the national parliaments much more than the yellow card does. we should remember that too. but the decision should always be taken at the level to which the treaty and the constitution give the competence and not a mixture of decisions.
president of the european council. – mr president, let me brief the house on the outcome of the march european council, where leaders tackled a number of issues ranging from russia and turkey to trade, taxation and brexit. the european council agreed with the uk government’s assessment that it is highly likely that the russian federation is responsible for the nerve agent attack in salisbury. we expressed full solidarity with the united kingdom by condemning this attack and, as a response, many leaders decided to expel russian diplomats. the eu ambassador to moscow was recalled for consultations. speaking about russia, i should mention last weekend’s targeted airstrikes by france, the united kingdom and the united states against syrian chemical weapons facilities. the use of chemical weapons, anywhere in the world, must not become normalised. nor can it be without consequences. the airstrikes were necessary and proportionate to deter further use of chemical weapons by the syrian regime to kill its own people. it is urgent that all parties in syria engage in the un-led political process to end this tragedy. above all, russia and iran should stop playing games and seriously engage in finding a responsible and peaceful solution. the european council discussed trade and called for a permanent eu exemption from the us tariffs on steel and aluminium. we strongly supported the steps taken by the commission to ensure that the interests of the union are fully protected. if there is no permanent exemption for the eu, we will have no choice but to react. we wish to avoid this route, which is why i called for a dialogue that will bring more trade between the us and the eu, not less. free and fair trade is one of the most powerful engines for growth and jobs, and we should make full use of it. it is simply in everyone’s interest. leaders also discussed the digital economy, which is a great opportunity but also a challenge for tax systems. there was a clear understanding that we need to make our tax systems fit for the digital era. a global tax regime would certainly be most welcome, but many felt that it would take too much time to prepare. the discussion confirmed the leaders’ desire to work towards an effective and fair solution among eu member states. in the context of the digital economy, we also discussed recent revelations related to facebook and cambridge analytica. the european council called on social networks and digital platforms to guarantee transparent practices and full protection of citizens’ privacy and personal data. eu and national legislation must be respected and enforced. this important matter, together with other issues relating to digital europe, will be discussed by the leaders at the informal meeting in sofia in may. during the euro summit, leaders exchanged views on long-term challenges ahead of the emu. the eu economy is back to pre-crisis growth rates, which makes this a very good time to reflect strategically on our ambitions. many of the themes we discussed – like a fiscal capacity for the euro area – are difficult, but i see avenues to be explored. as we agreed in december, the most urgent political priority remains strengthening the banking union and further developing the european stability mechanism. this remains my goal, even though i am not a blind optimist. in june we will aim to take a first set of decisions and provide additional guidance on the way forward. on brexit, the eu27 adopted guidelines for the future eu-uk relationship and welcomed the progress made on the withdrawal agreement. we want to use the positive momentum in these negotiations to finally settle outstanding issues such as the solution to avoid a hard border between ireland and northern ireland. the uk’s decision on brexit has caused the problem, and the uk will have to help solve it. without a solution, there will be no withdrawal agreement and no transition. leaders will assess the negotiations in june. in parallel, we will start our first talks about the future eu-uk relationship. finally, on turkey. despite many controversies, we agreed that the eu-turkey meeting should go ahead. i met president erdoğan in varna, together with jean-claude and prime minister borissov. we took stock of where things now stand in our relationship and set out some parameters for the future. we expressed clearly different views on democratic standards, turkey’s involvement in syria and its illegal actions in the eastern mediterranean as well as the aegean sea. however, we decided to keep the lines of communication open. we will also continue to work closely together on issues such as migration and terrorism. before concluding, let me say a few words about the western balkans, where i will travel next week to prepare the eu-western balkans summit in sofia on 17 may. the message to our friends is clear: the european union is, and will continue to be, the most reliable partner for the entire region, as the biggest investor, the biggest donor, the biggest trading market and the best promise for a better future for citizens. our summit should reaffirm the european perspective of the region. and, more importantly, it should improve, in concrete terms, connections with and within the region.
president of the european commission. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. donald tusk has reported extensively on the last european council. there is little to add to this, except that i would like to point out once again that, as far as our trade relations with the united states of america are concerned, we are firmly of the view that these derogations which we have received on a transitional basis from the american side for our benefit, in order for this to become a system which will last, must be converted into permanent derogations. i would like to add, en un mot comme en mille, puisque donald tusk has spoken at the summit with the western balkans, that the commission has proposed at its meeting here to open accession negotiations with albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the opening of negotiations is not a decision which is the sole responsibility of the commission; it is obviously a decision which must be taken by the council. the opening of negotiations does not mean that negotiations will begin tomorrow, nor that a date will be fixed for the end of these negotiations. all the candidate countries will be judged on their own merits and we shall see, in the months and semesters to come, what the council's decision will be, which i would not like to anticipate. however, we agreed in this house that the western balkans needed a european perspective so that the tragedies we witnessed during the 1990s would not happen again. it is therefore incumbent upon the states concerned to prepare and to make progress. some have made substantial progress, others more modest progress. the future will show whether the states concerned are able to become members of the union, but it is a process which will take a great deal of time. as for the other decisions of the european council, i would like to see us make significant progress in the completion of banking union by june, including on all fiscal and related issues.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not alone in this. welcome to the european parliament! the european council has already made a number of important decisions, and i am sure that the european council will make a number of important decisions. that means a lot of topics have been put off again. nevertheless, there are issues that move us and that drive us. we have now completed two important elections in europe on the issue of migration. in italy, there was an election, in hungary, there was an election. we in the epp group believe that the time window is now open on the issue of migration, the most important issue for this continent. we have seen it in the election campaigns, how people are eager to move forward on this most important issue now and to find solutions. the score is on the table. we need external border controls, we need the contingents to take in people in a structured way in the future, and we need a marshall plan for africa. my group and the whole parliament have already made clear decisions on this. we're ready to go. we are ready to close, and we hope that the council will finally move forward. the second major issue is the reform of the euro. it is legitimate - even if i look towards berlin - to define national positions. this is quite normal in european domestic politics. but now is no longer the time for national positions, but now is the time to seek compromise, to approach each other. that is why i hope that we will really get on track with the euro reform by the june summit. the big message is that with the european monetary fund we will become independent of the international monetary fund in the future. i don't want to be dependent on donald trump to make a political point in future crises. we have to solve our own problems. finally, on brexit, we have a strong, united european union. thanks for the work. ireland is the open question. we are all irish in this regard. we have a clear message to send that we stand behind our irish friends. and yet, the last few weeks have shown that we are partners - on the syrian issue, on the issue of dealing with russia - and that we will continue to work in partnership with each other, including the uk, even if we now go our separate ways in the european union. the final thought on russia. what if we were to group together, analyse and summarise the activities which russia is now carrying out on european territory? theresa may gave a remarkable speech in the house of commons in london a few weeks ago, where she talked about the influence of fake news, the influence of russian propaganda. we have reports in el pais in spain that prove how russia has influenced the catalan conflict. we know that russia has financed the national front and is thus supporting far-right parties in europe. i would be very interested to have the commission present a balance sheet on the whole of the situation where we have russian influence everywhere. to solve the problem, we need to identify the problem. and that's why we have to be aware that we have an aggressive behavior in russia now that challenges europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to say that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief explanation of his position. i must say, however, that it is a sign of poverty when the country which benefits most from the euro is now the one where the cdu/csu parliamentary group is putting up the stop sign. the demand that this monetary fund, contrary to what the commission has proposed, can only come about through a treaty amendment, means nothing other than that the whole thing will be postponed for years by the need for referendums. no, we will not get the european monetary fund in time. and that's why the task is to clean up. but i would like to say this about the council meeting: if you look at the conclusions, they also deal with the pillar of social rights, they deal with poverty, they deal with education. and it says: it remains a common commitment to implement these social rights in europe. but the monitoring of implementation should be carried out in accordance with the competences. the commission is not going to be able to do that, because it is not going to be able to do that. and what do we see at the same time? people across europe are demonstrating in support of the european treaties, often with the european flag in their hands. let us look at hungary, romania, malta, where there are still two corrupt ministers in the government. look at slovakia or germany, where people are trying to enforce their right to clean air under the european treaties. but the member states say: corruption, fundamental social rights, the rule of law - that is not the competence of the eu. but this is a breach of the fundamental european rights enshrined in the treaties. however, article 7 is such a sharp sword that we cannot enforce it. i would therefore like to propose to you, mr juncker, that you respond to the member states' refusal to act on this issue. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules of the competition are applied. let us make sure that you actually submit the annual report on corruption that was planned and do not sweep it under the carpet in the european semester. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, we are waiting - and daphne galizia deserves to be - for your report on the deficiencies in the rule of law in malta. we're still waiting for that. so please, if the council won't act, you will. the people on the streets of europe expect it.
mr president, let me take this opportunity to reflect on the speech of the french president of yesterday: he developed a vision of europe, a vision of a centralised europe, and it is exactly that vision which drove the united kingdom out of the european union. i would suggest that the council and the commission change their policy and make an offer to britain: an offer which enables britain to get what they always wanted without brexit. let us stop this ridiculous situation where two trains are running on the same track against each other. brexit is a lose-lose situation and a disaster for both britain and the european union. so i expect you, mr juncker, and you, mr tusk, to have the courage and take the initiative and make an offer to britain which enables the remainers to stay and enables the brexiteers to save face and stay in the union by getting what they always wanted.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the budget. first of all, i would like to thank the court of auditors for the annual report on the implementation of the 2016 budget and, of course, the directors-general of the commission for their annual reports, which have been the basis for our parliamentary work. i would also like to thank the staff of the secretariats and our offices and all the shadow rapporteurs for the wide-ranging consultations. seven months of work are now behind us and i can already foresee the positive outcome: the commission can be given a discharge for the implementation of the general budget for 2016. the commission also welcomes the fact that the estimated error rates have been reduced, although in the area of shared management the 2% error rate target has not yet been fully achieved in most cases. however, in very few cases more than 5% of the processes examined were considered to be affected by errors. however, it can also be seen that many errors have been corrected after corrections in project and programme implementation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. compliance remains important, but performance should become more important. we must also point out some weaknesses in the planning and implementation of the programme. 2016 was the third year of the new funding period, but in terms of programme implementation and absorption of cohesion policy funding, we were only at the beginning of the year. in order to avoid further delays and the risk of significant over-payments at the end of the support period, the commission and the member states must step up their efforts and speed up programme implementation in order to make this important instrument for creating growth and jobs in the regions effective. in the agricultural policy, new instruments such as greening and the young farmers programme have not yet achieved their objectives. migration policy and the integration of migrants, as well as the protection of europe's external borders, are new challenges that require a separate budget chapter. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the community's energy supply. the increase in trust funds and the variety of financial instruments obscure transparency and make it difficult for parliament to control the implementation of the budget. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its powers of control. the eu is the largest donor of development aid. however, to better assess the achievement of the objectives, we need more meaningful indicators than before. the annual monitoring reports of the eu delegations should also be made publicly available. in 387 articles, parliament has formulated its observations and proposals on the implementation of the 2016 budget. most of the committees have delivered their opinions. i hope that we can continue the discussion on this basis, also with regard to the new multiannual financial framework.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and above all, i would like to warmly welcome the presidency of the council, our former colleague monika panayotova. we're glad you're here, because we can't always count on you. but you, as the second leg of the legislature, are of course very necessary to discuss with you afterwards the improvements we want to achieve. we would be very happy if we could make progress on one point in particular, namely the discharge to the council. i am a little confused because i should have taken over mr valli's reports on the other seven institutions. i think he is talking about the reports themselves, so i can actually concentrate on the integrity report, on the resolution which is also here today with the discharge. i would also like to thank the president-in-office. i do not know how long it has been since we last had the opportunity to discuss the financial management of the eu at prime time and in the morning. it's been a long time. and that 's why i have to say: it's a new experience to be able to have a fresh and relaxed discussion here, and not just from 11:30 p.m. to 1:30 a.m. as is usually the case. i see a nod of the head. so thank you very much for the privilege. i would like to pay a compliment to the members of the committee on the rules of procedure, the verification of credentials and immunities. we have always succeeded in finding common ground, regardless of party politics. the commission's integrity policy resolution has put this normally substantive cooperation on a new footing; we're used to it. but we have so far succeeded in presenting something that already has a common breath. that is why the vote today is so important. there are amendments which are, for example, a no-go for my group. i am talking about amendments nos 1, 6, 7 and 13, which are votes of principle for the epp group. so if they were adopted, the epp would vote against them and i would withdraw my name from this resolution. i say this quite openly because i think it's important for all involved to know this. i do not wish to use the considerable speaking time to comment further on the resolution. i would just like to warn against further tightening up a resolution which is already clear and actually goes to the limit. that's not necessary. we believe that everything is there in a friendly tone, without naming names, and those who are meant know exactly that they are meant. it is therefore not necessary to clarify matters that are clear. it would also only harm us all and bring nothing at all. i would like to thank mr valli in particular for his work, because his work will bear my name afterwards, which i think is unfair. it's usually the other way around. i would like to say that i am sorry that you have withdrawn your name because of one point, namely brexit - there is an amendment that has been adopted, that brexit is regretted - because i think you have done a good job, and you have done a really remarkable job. i would like to thank you very much for that. i would also like to thank the court of auditors for a point which is important in my colleague mr valli's report on the other institutions, namely the special report by the court of justice. i think we have a real job to do here. and when i see that the court of justice has some amazing flaws after all - and that the best legal system is useless if it takes too long to get what you deserve - then i believe that we have a common task here. i want to speak to the council again. i believe that it is time to set up the working party on council relief and i would like to ask you, as the bulgarian presidency of the council, which can tackle old conflicts with new vigour and enthusiasm, to take up this matter. we must move forward on this issue. we cannot continue to use the same procedure year after year. we're ready to work this out together. please be happy.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i was tasked with reviewing the maritime safety agency, emsa. in addition to maritime safety, emsa is also responsible for pollution prevention and, for example, for monitoring the sea with remote controlled flight systems. she does all that very well. it has also been given the task of working with the european coast guard and contributing to our migration policy and to the management of refugee flows. there she will be given additional posts and she has already prepared herself to work well with frontex and also with the fisheries agency. i have to say that everything is actually very well in order at emsa. it also included in the fraud prevention strategy not only the adoption of the strategy but also an offer of ethical behaviour training for staff. it has also developed its own monitoring tool on the recommendation of the internal audit. so it's all good. we have noted in the transport committee that emsa has managed very well. the overwhelming majority of 40 votes - only two were against - agreed that we should agree to the discharge.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on transport and tourism. mr president, commissioner, mr president of the court of auditors! i was given the opportunity to take the exam through the european railway agency and the shift2rail joint undertaking. both are competitive, safe and sustainable. that is also the task they have to fulfil. to do this, both organisations need to work effectively and efficiently, and proper allocation of resources is the key. i can attest that both shift2rail and era have been properly and lawfully managed. i have a few brief remarks to make, however. we still have a costly double standard at the railway agency. the court has rightly criticised this. we are also critical of this and we want to see this finally resolved. secondly, the era will of course be given new operational tasks under the fourth railway package and should take this into account in its job creation. shift2rail is about strengthening synergies with european railway companies in the construction phase we are in and to play a more coordinating role in the future. but we can give both agencies immunity.
president of the european court of auditors. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. i should like to say a few words very briefly. mr frunzulică and mrs kappel raised the subject of the vulnerability of development aid. we're watching this closely, of course. but we know, of course, that certain areas of development aid are particularly prone to error because of the complexity of development aid. mrs de monte has called for less complex rules. that's what's been going on all this time. i keep hearing from the eib, when i am dealing with the eib, that people often prefer to pay for efsi loans with normal european grants because efsi loans are less bureaucratic and easier to get. of course, that doesn't make sense. we must bring this to a common, equal quality level so that they can be used in a targeted and fair manner. this is something that the court supports. mrs kadenbach pointed out that there had been marked progress in the error rate, particularly in the area of agricultural policy. that is very true, and that is very gratifying. i would just like to point out one thing, which is also true in the agricultural sector: an improvement in the error rate does not necessarily mean an improvement in performance, in other words in efficiency. they're not necessarily correlated. these are two different areas which must be considered independently of each other and which we must consider. mr chrysogonos touched on the subjects of the internal affairs and justice sectors. we have changed the structures of the responsibilities of the chambers in our house in such a way that the third chamber has a new focus of work, namely the whole area of home and justice, and will also set new priorities in this area in the work programmes of the next few years. mr sarvamaa spoke of the streamlined improvement of the discharge procedure. i've said a lot about that before. i think that makes sense and that we should really get to work on this. we are open to finding ways of interinstitutional cooperation to speed up and improve this so that we can, ideally, arrive at the n+1 solution, as mr sarvamaa has said. mrs ayala sender and mrs dlabajová spoke of the success of the fact that we had for the first time submitted a qualified opinion. i would like to say this again, as i did when i presented the annual report: this is a joint success. we all did it together. and if we know where we came from, what the situation was like ten or twenty years ago and what progress has been made, we are still not where we want to be, but we have made tremendous strides forward, and this is thanks to the cooperation of parliament, the court of auditors, the council and, of course, above all, the commission. we just have to keep going.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the majority of your valuable comments were recommendations or findings. there were a few questions on your part. we are taking the findings and recommendations and will take them seriously in our further work. there were several verbal messages to the agencies. the agencies are doing valuable work, but if there has been a miscalculation somewhere, we have a certain problem of oversight. who really has full responsibility for agencies? agencies perform tasks based on european law and are located somewhere between parliament, the council and the commission. full service responsibility is lacking. that is why i am reluctant to strengthen agencies in any way. or we can bring in full responsibility. the commission is not prepared to accept this. that's not really your core task when it comes to the legislative and executive branches. or the commission will do it if parliament and the council so wish. i therefore think that a debate on the principles of the agencies of the future, with increased responsibilities, more staff and more financial resources, is appropriate. secondly, the pension of one of my colleagues in the commission was mentioned - perhaps several - i do not know. i can say that i am receiving a fair salary as a member of the commission and at present i do not receive any pension or pension at all, either from previous work in parliaments or as a former regional head of government. but: salary and pension the commission has no responsibility for this. these are the rules of parliament and of the council. we are doing many things wrong, but for pensions which may be actively collected by commissioners in office today, these are your rules and the council's rules. please give us in our mailbox what belongs to us, no less and no more. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. we have, after all, completed and submitted our work last year at least a month earlier than has been the custom for many years. we should examine together whether we can jointly establish the legal basis for a more rapid control and discharge procedure. the more early the debates take place, the more recommendations are on the table, the sooner they can be incorporated into the active, current budget management. actually, today, in april 2018, we should be talking about 2017 and not 2016. we want the procedure to be shortened, and we are prepared to do so. i shall be glad to return to this subject at an appropriate time. i would like to thank you for this very, very pleasant and very substantive debate.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, i would like to respond and to make some comments on what has been said as remarks and messages from your side. on the question by mr czarnecki – he is not in the plenary but maybe he will see my comments afterwards – i would like to focus your attention on two main points. firstly, we all share the principles of responsibility, transparency and accountability. so the council is, in principle, providing the ep with all the recommendations, according to the treaty, because, as we all know, the parliament, on the recommendation of the council, gives discharge to the commission. in relation to the 2016 budget discharge procedure, i have to underline that the court of auditors did not identify any problems concerning the council. secondly, i would like to reiterate what i have already said on the request of the chair of the committee on budgetary control, ms gräßle. the council will soon adopt a mandate to start discussions with the parliament on the procedure of cooperation between the council and the parliament on the discharge procedure. concerning the remark made by mr staes relating to the staff of the coordinating secretariat for the european agencies, i took careful note of this. regarding the call of commissioner oettinger on the message to accelerate the work on the future agreement for the post—2020 multiannual financial framework, i have to say – and assure you – that, as the presidency, we will advance the work as much as possible during our term. the presidency will start work on the proposal as soon as it is presented by the commission. of course, the possibility of an early agreement very much depends on the proposal itself and we will do our best to achieve as much as possible, with the close cooperation of the european commission. to conclude, i would like to say that this debate has shown that we share many concerns. i can agree that an unqualified audit opinion of the court for the management of eu funds remains an ultimate goal and that further improvements are still necessary. allow me also to repeat that all financial actors need to fully assume their responsibilities in this respect. the european union budget is an important tool for achieving the policy objectives that we have agreed upon. we need results, notably in terms of growth, jobs and investment, stronger entrepreneurship and a more competitive europe. in a situation where resources are scarce we cannot afford to misuse one single euro. let us, through this debate, also send a clear message to the european citizens and taxpayers that the quality of eu spending is improving and that the european union budget is on track in delivering concrete and expected results.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the budget. thank you very much for your contributions. i was now working on the discharge report for the commission for the third time in succession, the second time as rapporteur for parliament. it was a challenging but also a rewarding job. the only thing that has bothered me, and this has been mentioned here on several occasions, is the length of our working procedures until we actually get to the presentation of the report. i am therefore grateful to klaus heiner lehne, president of the court of auditors, and to günther oettinger, commissioner for the budget, for their efforts to ensure that we arrive at a streamlined approach in order to be able to discharge a budget as soon as possible and thus incorporate the lessons learned in the current budget implementation process even better and more effectively. i would like to draw attention to the report on the special reports of the court of auditors which i have before me. the special reports have increasingly become a very valuable source for our work to date. they should be given much greater consideration in the specialised committees, since they provide the data and details on the implementation of european programmes and projects and thus make a major contribution to transparency in budget implementation. after the discharge report is before the discharge report. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2016 and to provide information on the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2017.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i would like to add my voice to what mr vaughan said. so parliament certainly has the greatest burden to bear in the discharge procedure. mr secretary-general, you are still able to answer more than 200 questions reliably with a budget that is still relatively manageable. this means that no one in the eu is as well controlled as parliament. i would like to take this to the council as a sign of the quality of our work. i therefore want to give the council a homework assignment - and i think you are almost overburdened with a homework assignment, given the many tasks and also the problematic situations in the council - namely, to take forward the discharge debate within the council. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this, but i am saying that it should be involved in the work of the european parliament. if you don't do it with us, it may never come. i would also like to give the commission three homework assignments and remind it of them: first, the evaluation of the previous multiannual programmes - this evaluation is still missing, and this is of course very important in order to draw conclusions from it - then the reduction of the deadline - i will continue to invite this - and, of course, the budgeting of the edf. we want to not only relieve the burden, but we want to be involved in what is being done in development aid. i myself am taking three homework assignments with me, namely the reduction of the deadline and then of course the discharge to the council and the round table on the staff regulations. the invitation from you, commissioner, has arrived. there's another wave going through the house, preventing us from doing anything here. there is an astonishing overlap.i have to say that if the committee on budgetary control has anything to complain about, it is that we have not raised this question how we occupy top positions in all the institutions for a long time. the fact that we have not done so is also linked to the fact that we are deliberately prevented from doing so. this prevention is not a good idea. that's why we're doing this.
the next item on the agenda is the vote.
i would like to say in advance, in order to avoid any debate, that we have some questions about certain language versions, in particular paragraph 20 which has been deleted. you can be sure that the services will make every effort to produce adequate translations in each language.
i'm trying to do this as conscientiously and as quickly as possible. (applause from the centre) and i'm trying to keep an eye on you, too. but if you wish to speak on the rules of procedure, it would be good if you also made an audible announcement.
mr president, the work of mr staes seems to be so popular that i suggest we vote on all his reports in one vote.
i'm sorry, but i have to go. mr corbett and i have been trying for over a year to change the rules of procedure and it is precisely at this point that we have come across granite in the committee on budgetary control. so please contact the relevant colleagues.
thank you for the flowers, mr. sarvamaa.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i thank you very much, mrs morvai. i would ask you very kindly, mrs morvai, to try to keep to the minutes. i can't be cutting you off every time. everyone here is as punctual as they can be. i'm under the impression that if you're allowed to talk, you'll talk for 20 minutes. we've got to make sure we play by the rules here. (interruption by mrs morvai)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, there are more facebook users in europe than there are in the us. the social network might be based in the silicon valley, but it is active worldwide and, therefore, it also has responsibilities all across the globe. i have said it before and will repeat it again, mark zuckerberg has to come to the european parliament to answer our questions; a simple apology will not do. and it will not do either if the commissioners now start to travel to the us and ask very nicely for audiences with mr zuckerberg. it’s very worrying that one single tool can be so dominant on the market, and all of us know it can be a very annoying tool with all the ads and all the weird groups that you are being added to. but it is also probably the best way – or only way – to we can stay in touch with most of our friends because they are on it. it’s also the only place where you can share cat pictures with your grandmother; nowhere else could you possibly do that, so we stay there. and despite the dramatic data leakages, despite the ads, despite all of that, we keep spending and wasting our time scrolling down our timeline. for many in europe, facebook has become a necessity, rather than a nice option. that also means that facebook has a huge responsibility, and so far it has shied away from taking up this responsibility. it has ignored even the most basic data protection rules, and that must be over, once and for all. and it’s our duty as european legislators to make sure that our citizens and their data is protected. it’s our duty, they have put their trust in us and we need to comply with that,
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not yes, what we are experiencing today with facebook is a fatal reminder of the long-dead reality of the best-selling book "the circle". this is not just about cambridge analytica, but about a corporation that has become dominant in the global media industry without taking any ethical responsibility for it. and facebook is not a neutral platform! reality is shortened with each click in algorithms, based on software that decides what's shown and what's not. it can be manipulated piece by piece. zuckerberg didn't somehow get that to happen. he doesn't have to pretend he doesn't know. he knew about the scandal since 2015 and he did nothing! why didn't he do something? because ultimately, this is also a business model of facebook, to make money logically from data. they may, but they also have responsibilities. so is google, so is amazon. clear rules and consequences are therefore needed to prevent abuse. what we as a group are demanding is full disclosure of the misuse of european data by facebook. i want zuckerberg to come here and we'll have a say, especially in the committee responsible. i want to know from him how facebook actually intends to implement the general data protection regulation after may 25, if it is actually valid. if there are no guarantees, then it must pay the appropriate penalties. we should be working on that. and another thing: this is not just a crisis of trust at facebook, but it is about upholding fundamental rights, and because of that, your honour, you have to be much more proactive, you have to actually push for this to happen. otherwise, there would be penalties.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. knowledge is power, and power is all too easily abused when there are no adequate rules to protect the individual. the consequences of this lack of regulation are seen in the recent facebook scandal: millions of times more data is misused to manipulate voters. zuckerberg's remorseful appearances cannot mask the fact that facebook is engaged in an aggressive data capitalism, hidden behind colorful likes and seemingly harmless apps. the fact that facebook is currently experimenting with facial recognition software shows how little learning is actually happening. and yet facebook is just the tip of the iceberg. the collection and processing of data has become a business model in which we are manipulated, as customers and consumers as well as voters. we end up paying for many of the digital and seemingly free offerings with a loss of privacy, choice and democracy. governments, parliaments, business and civil society can now prove that they have understood and are taking action. thanks to the data protection regulation, the eu will be able to respond to data capitalists in the only language they understand, that of money, from may. the fines can amount to up to four percent of worldwide sales. and if facebook then allows dubious apps to entice users to withdraw their consent through insufficient or incorrect information, facebook must also be held accountable. but the data protection regulation alone is not enough. we need the eprivacy regulation to protect online privacy. eprivacy protects not only personal data, but the confidentiality of communications as a whole. the rules that we have are so outdated that they don't even cover actors like facebook. that has to change. eprivacy is designed to protect the content of conversations in private facebook messengers, some of which have also been read. the regulation also provides for specific standards of protection for consent to personalised advertising. and we want strict technical specifications for the browser to allow tracking only with the user's consent. but as with the general data protection regulation, member states are putting the brakes on eprivacy and playing the hand of industry. the european parliament has had a position since the autumn. the member states must now finally take a stand in the face of the millions of breaches of the law by facebook, so that joint negotiations can begin and we can also better protect our citizens digitally.
mr president, these days we all can see advertisements by facebook praising the european union’s general data protection (gdpr) as the new standard to protect citizens’ privacy and data in europe and everywhere in the world, as facebook reacts by implementing the gdpr standards on a global level. so, 37 days before the gdpr is even being applied, it is already setting the global standard for protecting personal data. we can be very proud, as the european union and, especially as parliament, that we have a tool to protect the privacy and integrity of our citizens’ lives with the gdpr in place. but i would also agree it is very important to understand that there is a missing brick in this wall, and that is the e-privacy regulation. we still need to fix that problem because the communication data needs to be protected in a specific way. it is important that facebook is not only relying on ads, as they say is their business model, but is also delivering for trust by delivering solutions and actions in the way of how they do their business model. the business model of just earning money by using the data of individuals has to change, because that’s not only facebook’s business model. there are other companies – we don’t talk about google, twitter, or even companies you maybe not have heard of like actium or thomson reuters having your data, exploiting it and selling it. we need to get more rules in place, especially also for consumer control to get connectivity across the platforms in order to have a choice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we need to be a little more honest here. the systematic analysis and subsequent use of large amounts of user data is not a new phenomenon. for many years we have seen such reports in the media and in the reports of data protection officers. so what we're seeing here now may be the tip of the iceberg, but it's not new in that sense, and the fact that data is being traded is not new either. that is why we have adopted this basic regulation on data protection here at european level. what i think we haven't really appreciated, and i would say that this is not the right answer to these data uses in the future, is that we're basically transferring an old structure into this new world. we should have thought more about consent, because consent is the element that ultimately ensures the legality of data processing and data use. we have been a little too lax in this whole process. so i think we need to think even more about whether we need to approach these stories even differently. we need more control. and we have to be honest with each other. even with a new general data protection regulation coming into force next month, we will still have such scandals because the abuse cannot be regulated. we can only assume that we are providing a guide to how to handle this data within the legal framework. but we will not be able to regulate the abuse.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the scandal we're discussing today is making waves in the public eye. but the waves are not high enough. this is because many citizens still do not understand the extent of the data that their user behaviour provides to the internet companies, social media and what is done with this data. and i think that's what we need to do. we need to make it much clearer to citizens how much of this data is being used and how much data about individuals is actually being collected simply from user behaviour. and the only way we can do that is by requiring the internet companies, the social media companies, to regularly inform each user about what data is stored for that user. it must be standard practice for every user to regularly check what is stored by them with these companies. and it should also be documented what the corporations are getting out of it and to which companies it is being sold. so all i can say is that the words have changed enough, let me see action now!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. over two billion people use facebook worldwide, 400 million people in europe. this company has become a global platform for communication, information and political campaigning. in other words, facebook is the infrastructure of today's democratic public. and as with any form of infrastructure, the one who builds it and defines the rules also has the power to decide who benefits the most from it. when the government builds a road, it stipulates that all cars must be able to drive at the same speed. when facebook changes its algorithm, it often decides that certain content gets more attention than others. in the information society, knowledge is power, in the algorithmic information society, digital infrastructure is power, because digital infrastructure can favor or disadvantage knowledge. the point is therefore that the democratic society decides the rules under which the infrastructure of our information society operates. we therefore need a european digital supervisor alongside european banking supervision. and you, commissioner, can put this proposal forward and thereby give the people back control.
mr president, one aspect i am missing so far in this debate is that the facebook scandal is also a scandal of secrecy. we must demand more transparency about data breaches on the one hand, but more generally about how personalised algorithms work and who is served which customised messages on whose behalf. in a world where information flows are now so personalised that we no longer really have one shared reality, we must make it understandable and investigate how information is spread and who is spreading it. as we debate regulatory responses to the scandal, here is my proposal: let us regulate advertising targeting. there is an arms race in the industry to collect ever more data, to create ever more precise psychological profiles of users and to move ever closer to outright manipulation – just to secure advertising revenues. let’s end this arms race and return a share of the advertising market to those whose business model is not based on invading our privacy.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. money laundering is known to cause great economic damage to the member states of the european union. in germany alone, according to recent studies, up to 100 billion euros are laundered each year. worldwide, we are talking about up to 1.5 trillion euros a year. it is a question of dirty money, which in most cases is generated by criminal schemes, dirty money which then finds its way into, for example, the real estate market, contributing to its hot run and rents at sometimes astronomical levels and thus driving people out of their homes. that is why my group supports the efforts made by parliament here. but money laundering is and remains a major problem in the eu. the commission has also been working on a new proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we expressly welcome the fact that a publicly accessible register of beneficial owners of companies is finally being introduced and that whistleblower protection is being improved. in the fight against dirty money, full transparency is one of our strongest weapons. but why take a step in the right direction and then stop halfway? why not a public register like this for trusts and foundations? and in other places too, the outcome of the negotiations is unfortunately behind the possibilities. the sanctions regime for breaches of the money laundering law will not be tightened, and unfortunately no agreement was reached on the urgent need to establish a real estate register. so the fight against dirty money, gangsters and tax cheats continues.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. the directive we are discussing is, as its name suggests, aimed at combating money laundering and terrorist financing. and yet well over half of the speakers today are quite right to talk about tax evasion, which this directive is supposed to help to combat. why all this confusion when all three are reasonable goals? the background is very simple: what you are doing here is creating the glass citizen, the complete destruction of any anonymity, any private retreat of the citizen from the state. they create complete transparency for states and non-governmental organisations vis-à-vis the citizen. and that's exactly what you couldn't make the citizen taste for just because of the taxing things in life. that's why you're here, trying to transport something you're not capable of, by stirring up fear. you're not going to hit terrorism, you're not going to stop money laundering. they will only put 500 million european citizens under general suspicion in the future and ensure that people who behave in an upright manner will no longer enjoy the protection of the state.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would also like to thank the rapporteur and all the shadow rapporteurs. i believe that we have succeeded in finding a solution to a highly political and difficult issue, which is also a matter of public debate, and we have got a lot under control. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the existing authorities in the member states are able to see themselves in a common european system of responsibility for vehicle inspection, partly because they are faced with a control by the european commission which did not exist in the past. i believe that this has led to the member states having to take a greater role in the control themselves and also to the member states' supervisory authorities having greater independence in the field of typeapproval. this is an important step towards making member states more aware of their responsibilities in this process, which they unfortunately did not see as much as they should have in the past. secondly, it is important that we make it clear that vehicles must of course be put on the market by the manufacturers in a way that complies with the rules laid down by the legislator and that no loopholes may be exploited, and certainly not in an unlawful manner. the third is that we have also ensured, with the resolution we are now drafting, that what is needed is not delayed by long discussions on the establishment of a new authority, but that we can use the experts of the authorities we already have today directly. i therefore believe that the commission and parliament have put forward a really good proposal which must now enter into force as soon as possible. thank you to everyone who has helped.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. after four years, we have almost completed the project of a new environmental regulation after 18 trilogues under six council presidencies. i should like to thank in particular the maltese presidency, but also the estonian presidency, for making this possible. we have now put together 260 pages of organic legislation - as one of the journalists said yesterday - the bible of organic farming. i should like to thank in particular - i do not want to end this now - my colleagues in the shadow press for the excellent cooperation we have had. i should like to thank the commission and, of course, the secretariat for their excellent cooperation. but i also want to thank two people who have been working with me all this time: hannes lorenzen and also corinna hartmann, who have invested a lot of time in making this happen. we can proudly say that we now have a regulation which is an improvement on the old regulation and above all - this is very important - strengthens the confidence of consumers, but also of farmers in the eco-sector. and that is very important. the most important thing we have to do is to build trust in the eco-label. we have thus also laid a solid foundation for the dynamic development of the bio-sector in europe. we can also see from the double-digit growth rates that the eco-sector in europe is also succeeding in developing further. i would also like to mention a few points which are very important. we have improved import controls: one standard instead of 64 different standards. this will also strengthen consumer confidence in imports. but we have also left enough room for imports from the global south so that we do not close the market there now. but we have also - and this must be said in this area - strengthened the competitive position of european farmers. we have strengthened controls overall, we have put process-oriented control at the forefront and annual control is still standard in this regulation. this does not exclude the possibility that risk controls will play a significant role in future controls. and we have simplified things: group certification - that is mainly for small businesses and small traders, also in europe. we have incorporated the principle of 'land-based agriculture' in this regulation, with a few exceptions in the nordic countries, in greenhouses. this principle is enormously important for organic farming. and we have continued to make efforts to improve the seed sector, so that in future all european countries will have organic seed and, in the long term, organic animals for the sector. the first basis for this is databases in all member states, not just in some. the aim will be to have the same standard in all member states. but we have also tried to set different standards in the bio-sector in the breeding, namely that we develop a right of our own. organic seed has different conditions in seed production, and we will strengthen that. and in the future, heterogeneous material will no longer be subject to the strict rules that must be applied in other areas. this is a very important advantage for future regulation. and we've talked about pesticides, of course, although i have to be very clear here: organic farming is more than pesticide-free, organic farming goes much further. but we said first: we must strengthen the foundations on which we are debating at all. the commission is therefore asked to submit a report in the next few years to clarify the situation with regard to pollution: where does it come from, who causes it? we have asked the sector to strengthen its precautionary measures. but the commercial sector is also called upon to take account of the ecological sector in the end. now we are going to the delegated and implementing acts, and i hope also in good cooperation with the commission, so that we can finally solve this part in cooperation with the sector.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am particularly pleased to be here and to participate in this debate this evening because in ireland we have a saying that ‘it’s a long road that has no turn’ and there were certainly many twists and turns on this road over the last four years. i have to compliment the patience and determination of everybody in trying to reach our objective of harmonising and regulating the organic sector. i would particularly like to thank the rapporteur, mr häusling and his shadows, mr lins, mr andrieu, mr jakovčić, ms girling, mr zullo, ms senra rodríguez, and the late mr ferrand. i welcome the conclusion of this process, which, in my view, is overdue. a lot of people were reluctant to accept that we could achieve an outcome that was successful. when it was put on the commission work programme i took a leap of faith in the ability of everybody to be able to reach an agreement and i’m glad that it wasn’t totally misplaced. we should remember that many of the current rules are over 20 years old, and they needed to be updated in any event to reflect the major changes that have taken place in the eu organic sector over that time. we are talking about a very dynamic sector which has enormous potential and one that has been transformed from a niche sector to one that is very much in the mainstream in agriculture. it is a market that is now worth about eur 27 billion per annum, which is 125% more than it was 10 years ago. so i’m satisfied that we have managed to reach a reasonable and balanced compromise in many areas, which meets the essential priorities for the three institutions. most importantly, it reaches a stability and predictability, from the point of view of the organic operators across the european union. the agreement provides the conditions for european union organic production to accelerate its move away from being simply a niche production and continue on its path of sustained growth while maintaining consumer confidence. the consumer must have trust in the organic brand and in the organic logo. the text on which you are about to vote will ensure fair competition and a level playing field for eu organic farmers, while the assurance is being offered to consumers by the eu organic logo in terms of production and quality standards and these will be further strengthened from this process. the new regulation has further harmonised the production rules which has wiped away the à la carte derogations: it will ensure that the same rules apply to all organic producers and products. today we have 60-plus different standards that apply to imported organic foods and these will be replaced by compliance, meaning that those who wish to export their organic products to the eu market must respect eu organic rules. this ensures a level playing field between the operators from both inside and outside the european union. moreover, the new regulation brings greater simplification for our farmers, something that i have prioritised since becoming commissioner. for example, small farmers now will be able to choose group certification, which will reduce their certification costs and make it easier for them to join the organic scheme. the scope of the organic rules has been extended to cover a range of new products such as salt, cork and essential oils. it will also be possible in the future to add new products in order to respond to the development of the sector and to the consumers’ demand, providing additional opportunities for our producers. new opportunities will also be created by the opening of new markets for organic heterogeneous seeds, as mr häusling has just said, and indeed other plant reproductive material with a high level of genetic and phenotypic biodiversity. this will improve biodiversity and crop sustainability and will boost innovation. resistance to pests and diseases will be improved and better adaptation to local conditions will be a focus. as regards controls, the delimitation between horizontal food safety rules and the rules that are meant to guarantee the respect of organic principles have been clarified. the horizontal official controls regulation will be valid for organics, while the organic regulation contains additional rules to target the specificity of the sector. opening up to risk-based controls will lower the burden for producers and allow authorities to better use their available resources. i’m glad that we got a pragmatic outcome on demarcated beds, which will give another 10 years to our friends in scandinavia to protect their existing system. i’m disappointed that we didn’t reach a more ambitious outcome on pesticides. mr häusling didn’t refer to this at all, he gave a different version of events to know why we didn’t reach an outcome on this, but we will let this pass on this occasion. as far as you can see, and from what i’ve just said, you can see that the road has been a long and winding one, but i’m sure we can all agree that we did our best to achieve an outcome that is a big improvement on the old system, which has stood us in good stead over 20 years, but needed to be modernised. we’re not talking anymore about a niche market, we’re talking about a very solid sector, and constant growth and export opportunities are increasingly available on third-country markets. we are modernising the sector as we were trying to do with our agricultural policy generally. can i finally repeat my appreciation to mr häusling and his team, to my own officials in the commission and all of the shadows that have been part of the three institutions that have brought this about and for the tenacity to see it through when many people thought we couldn’t do so?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has been very active in this area. the new organic regulation is making europe's organic farming fit for the future. the market for organic products is growing steadily, as the commissioner has pointed out. the niche of the industry is no longer one. organic has established itself. for interested farmers, organic farming offers great potential for development. more and more consumers are buying organically produced goods. we support all of this with the text to be adopted. we have set realistic targets and - i mean - we have also created new legal certainty. at the same time, we are preserving the coexistence of organic and conventional farming. all this was and is the motivation for me to get involved in this dossier. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is no accident that the negotiations took 18 trilogues and more than a year and a half. the commission's original proposal of march 2014 promised a lot, but did not set the right direction for organic farming. in the end, we as a parliament were able to bring about many improvements in tough trilogue negotiations. i thank everyone, the rapporteur, the commission, the council, for the good result we were able to achieve in the end.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. good things take time that's really what you can say about the eu's environmental regulation. after four years, four presidencies and eighteen trilogues, a result has finally been reached. the demand for organically produced food is increasing and to meet this demand, a review of the existing eu organic regulations was urgently needed. now there is a real common framework and uniform european standards for organic products. three things are important to me: producers from non-eu countries who want to import their organic products into the eu have to comply with our rules. this will ensure fair competition and consumer protection. farms which comply with the rules may be inspected at most every two years. that means less fees. of course, this is only possible if there are no objections. and thirdly, a compromise was reached whereby producers of organic baby food and follow-on food can also label their products as organic. thank you to the reporters!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. can we be satisfied? i'm telling you, it's not me. a speaker said a phrase earlier, a proverb. i'd just say new isn't always better. i would like to compare these trialogue agreements on ecological regulation to a backpack, a backpack that we carry on the back of the ecological farmer, but also on the back of society. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. it is about shifting the burden of proof, which should be unilaterally - and really only unilaterally - placed on organic farmers. it is about the abolition of the polluter-pays principle. we have too little of the polluter principle when it comes to environmental toxins anyway. but here it is attacked again in a big, massive style and secretly, very secretly, hidden behind the shadows of the year 2021 figures and four years later, then the procedural idea of ecological regulation, which we know and appreciate in germany, for example, falls to a final control. i would say that the many implementing and delegated acts are bringing the uncertainty we have had for the last four years into the next four years. that is why i shall be voting against the eco-regulation.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i'm glad to see so much support. it wasn't always like that at this point. we had some very controversial arguments. i believe that if we get a large majority in parliament tomorrow, it will also be a good sign for the sector that we are making a serious effort to meet the demands of the sector, but also the additional growing demands of consumers. there are two points on which there is no longer any controversy: the fact that we have made substantial progress in the field of seeds is a matter of general agreement. the fact that we are unifying the import rules and thus making them a little bit safer is also a matter of complete consensus here. we do not have a consensus - i admit that, commissioner, we did not have much to say about this earlier - on the subject of limit values. no one wants pesticide residues, either in the conventional or in the biological domain. i can see that. the main issue is this: and this was the debate that was held in germany in particular: do we leave the risk to the organic sector alone or not? i hope that the investigation which will then take place will provide more clarity. and then, of course, we'll have to talk about it again. of course, i would also like to see uniform rules in all areas, but i am also pleased - and i was really pleased today - that on the one hand copa cogeca, which was not always in favour, has supported this new regulation and that the german sector, which was particularly critical, has also said that parliament is providing an extra piece of legal certainty and that important impulses are also being given by parliament. it is important to me, even after these long and difficult negotiations, that we have also taken the sector a good deal further, and especially now, with the implementation of delegated and implementing acts, it is important that we work together on a practical implementation, so to speak, so that in the end even those who still have doubts today can say: it was a good deal of work that we all did together here. we haven't revolutionized the organic sector. we have developed the existing law in a very positive direction, and for this i thank once again all those who have contributed to it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank mr rangel very warmly for his excellent report, which seeks to make clear that national parliaments and the european parliament need to work together more closely. we must not be in competition, but we must have an exchange of information so that we can have more control and control over the executives at national and european level. but it must also be clear that the decisions in a parliament must be taken where the competence lies. we cannot have a shared competence in decision-making. in the case of european competence, it is the european parliament; in the case of national competence, it is the national parliament. we must then keep the information flowing, as we have done at various events, such as the article 13 events in economic and monetary union, the meeting of foreign policy representatives of national parliaments and the european parliament, or cosac, for example. but we also need to make it clear that we are also looking at this at the national level. it would be good if we had this in germany and in some other countries too, if meps were members of the european committees of the national parliaments. i have been a deputy member of the european committee of the german bundestag for 25 years, and we can discuss things together. i believe that we have a situation in the netherlands, for example, where we have the possibility of having european and national members of parliament discussing together once a year in the dutch plenary. these are all possibilities. it has just been proposed that national parliaments should debate before councils. in germany, the chancellor makes a government declaration before the german bundestag before each european council.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, it is a pleasure for me to participate today in this important debate. as the honourable members point out, a widespread vaccine hesitancy is a worrying phenomenon that could cause serious public health problems, as the current measles outbreaks in a number of member states show. in order to increase vaccination coverage, which is the only means to counteract the public health threats caused by vaccine-preventable diseases, vaccine hesitancy is however only one of the problems to tackle. it is equally important to prevent vaccine shortages and to find means to develop new vaccines. the council has taken several initiatives relating to vaccination. in the council conclusions of 2014, ministers agreed on a comprehensive list of actions intended to increase the vaccination coverage in the european union and invited member states and the commission to implement those actions. among these actions, one of them aims at strengthening the role of healthcare professionals in recommending vaccination, which directly links to the issues raised by the honourable members. the council will further undertake a detailed analysis of the measures in this field, including measures aimed at tackling vaccine hesitancy, when examining the forthcoming commission proposal for a council recommendation on strengthening cooperation against vaccine—preventable diseases. the bulgarian presidency is in contact with the commission with regard to the proposal. as soon as the proposal is published, we will initiate the discussions in the council.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much indeed for this oral question. vaccination is one of the most powerful public health measures we have at our disposal. widespread vaccination has eradicated smallpox and made europe polio—free. it prevents countless deaths and stops millions of people from contracting illnesses each year. there are not so many other interventions that can claim to be so effective. that being said, sorry, but now over 14 000 people contracted measles in the european union in 2017 – more than three times than in 2016. and 57 deaths due to measles have been reported here since 2016. it is so painful to see this picture. a safe, effective and cheap measles vaccine exists, so every one of these deaths is unacceptable. they are avoidable deaths, preventable deaths. it is deeply unacceptable. so why on earth are people avoiding vaccinations? well, there is a shift away from the individual and collective benefits of vaccinations to increased distrust and fear of possible side effects. that is true. misinformation by vaccination deniers and the rapid spread of fake information is clearly a factor. but we cannot just dismiss vaccine hesitancy as a question of ignorance. people have concerns about the vaccines and we need to address these. vaccine hesitancy is a common problem across member states. solving this problem depends on strengthened coordination at european union level. so i am very encouraged by the parliament’s resolution. thank you very much indeed; it is very timely. i also want to ensure that vaccination is an absolute priority for me as commissioner and it is very important that i see cross—party engagement on this issue. now, you have asked me some important questions and i want to address each of them individually. first, how does the commission plan to address this resistance to vaccination? based on your draft resolution it seems that we share many of the same concerns, including the difference in vaccine rates across member states and increasing vaccine hesitancy. these issues need a strategic and coordinated response. with that in mind, the commission is planning to adopt an initiative on a vaccination very soon – maybe next week. the parliament’s draft resolution is very much in line with our own proposal. we plan to focus first on tackling vaccine hesitancy and increasing vaccination uptake. now is the time to act in ensuring vaccine supply and improving cooperation across the european union. healthcare workers and health professionals play a crucial role in promoting vaccination and addressing concerns related to hesitancy. so we are exploring how to create a coalition of health associations to increase vaccination coverage. we also need to find ways to deliver accurate and timely information to the public of these genuine concerns, exchanging best practices and combating myths. under the european union health programme we are launching a project or joint action with member states that will also address vaccine hesitancy. the joint action is led by france and will, first, establish mapping of best practices and analyse the reasons behind high and low vaccination coverage and, secondly, set up social media infrastructures to conduct real—time public vaccine confidence monitoring. your second question, how does the commission intend to ensure that a comprehensive european union action plan raising the social problem of vaccine hesitancy is elaborated? as you know, vaccination programmes are the competence of member states. but given the close border nature of disease outbreaks, some member states have requested support suggesting the need for coordinated approaches. this makes absolute sense and this is also the reason our initiative is in the form of a council recommendation. there is a clear added value in strengthening cooperation at eu level including among health authorities, the vaccine industry, research and innovations, healthcare providers and other stakeholders, keeping all on board. make no mistake, each of these stakeholders needs to be enrolled if we are to properly address this issue. the commission will encourage and support member states’ outreach to the most disadvantaged groups including by promoting health mediators and grassroots community networks. we will also work with member states to simplify and broaden opportunities for vaccination. this means identifying the barriers to access and supporting interventions to increase access for disadvantaged and socially—excluded groups. the commission initiative would aim to achieve these goals. indeed, we intend to focus on one of the proposal’s main pillars on tackling vaccine hesitancy. your third question, what concrete actions is the commission planning to facilitate a more harmonised schedule for vaccinations across the eu? vaccination schedules vary considerably between member states due to differences in the way vaccination programmes are organised. these differences take into account, of course, historical vaccine registrations and the specific burden of disease and the cost—effectiveness of single vaccinations. together, these inconsistencies can give the sense that there is a lack of scientific consensus on vaccine schedules, which could in turn lead to vaccine hesitancy. a european union—wide common vaccination schedule would solve many of these problems. for example, it would mitigate the risk that children miss a vaccine by moving, together with their parents, from one member states to another. furthermore, this would decrease supply problems and increase the value of programme monitoring. to address this issue, the joint action on vaccination aims to map the evidence base of national vaccination calendars. this will provide an important basis for a common vaccination schedule in the future. as a starting point, we need a system to collect and share data on vaccination. this requires the involvement of all member states and we hope that we can build on the excellent work of the european centre for disease prevention and control. the fourth question, how does the commission plan to address the spread of unreliable and misleading scientific information on vaccinations and to further develop information campaigns aimed at providing more in—depth knowledge about vaccines and increasing vaccination coverage? the spread of accurate and timely information in an age of information overload is a huge challenge. when it comes to vaccination, we need to be extremely vigilant and responsive to rumours, myth and misinformation. the commission will explore, with member states, how to support their communication activities and awareness—raising on the benefits of vaccination by, first, presenting scientific evidence to counter the spread of fake news. second, engaging with healthcare workers, education stakeholders and the media, as advocates and multipliers, to fight complacency and increase trust in immunisation. i want to assist in increasing the bearings and confidence of citizens in their national vaccine programmes. we feel that campaigns are best developed at national level by experts who understand the national and cultural context. we are working closely with the european centre for disease prevention and control to propose ways to provide objective and transparent evidence on vaccines and pharmacovigilance processes. we also need to build on synergies with other commission initiatives such as the upcoming initiative addressing the spread of fake news. honourable members, colleagues, at a time when our health systems are under increasing pressure and are asked to do more with less, we simply cannot afford to waste the potential of vaccinations to save lives. we need to harness our all our resources and energy in a coordinated effort to restore public confidence in vaccination. our work with member states is very much in line with parliament’s resolution. so we are moving in the right direction together. but this is only the beginning and i invite you to be fully involved in this effort. i look forward to working closely with parliament and to doing everything in my power to increase vaccine coverage in europe.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. thank you for that thoughtful comment. yes, there are diseases that we barely remember, that we may have had as children, that when we get a little older -- like me -- can be life-threatening. people have obviously forgotten that measles can be life-threatening. there are countries where measles has been eradicated or nearly eradicated through vaccination programmes. guatemala is one such country. yet, a student from guatemala contracted measles. but she didn't get it in guatemala, she got it in germany, where she was on an exchange student, and she then - not knowing she was sick - brought the disease back to guatemala. there's suddenly measles again. that shows that in germany too little is vaccinated. it's not just in germany, it's all over the eu. in all member states, the vaccination rate is declining. it goes back to fake news about supposedly horrible side effects of vaccinations that are so not true. we know our vaccines are safe. minor side effects must be tolerated, for the effect of the disease that is being prevented can be devastating. i almost think it's a personal injury when parents refuse to vaccinate their children for whom they are responsible. they may be giving up their children to a life-threatening disease or a disease that causes lifelong disability. we have to explain that to the people again. people have forgotten how important vaccination is. we have to teach them again. the member states have a special responsibility in this respect, they must do it. but of course we should have concerted action at european level. that is why i am pleased with what the commissioner has just said.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. vaccination is a topic that moves many people: doctors, health insurance companies, but also parents. they face the million-fold challenge of deciding on their children's vaccination catalogue. the pharmaceutical industry is not making life easy for people with its colorful giant vaccine packages and a barrage of side effects. i am not a vaccine fanatic, but what is being put to the vote here tomorrow sounds as if it were written by pharmaceutical lobbyists - for example, if we demand that in the future much more should be done to promote vaccination, to recommend to the national states a vaccine requirement. i am critical of this and have tabled amendments to that effect in the interests of the parents. we need more information on the side effects. the charter of fundamental rights is clear: in the field of medicine, the individual's free choice of treatment after full information and consent must be respected. do i really have to start giving babies a seven- or eight-fold vaccination cocktail at a few weeks old? as a representative of the people, we must give more space to the interests of the population on vaccination issues, instead of always quoting the phrases of the pharmaceutical industry.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we've made a lot of medical progress. mankind may be healthier today than it was in the past, if you disregard any allergies. and you get the feeling, some people think we're immune to disease now. we're not that at all. we also have to consider that much of our good health today is because we know about diseases, we know about their counter-effects, and we've also just been able to virtually eradicate diseases through vaccinations -- it's been said before. but they can come back. this is very important, and it must not be forgotten. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the aim is to inform people and to relieve them of fears of possible side effects. i think if all parents knew what a child might be facing when they get really sick and what it means to vaccinate, then most parents would decide to vaccinate. you have also said that this is the responsibility of the member states. we don't want to mess with their business. but there are so many things where it's actually important to point out that vaccination can save lives, and that's a fact. that does not mean that we want to achieve compulsory vaccination. in some areas, it's necessary for some diseases. many others are about informing and then - as i said - getting the member states to exchange actions together, including, for example, common vaccines in the event of a disease that is not excluded - bird flu or something like that - so that you are prepared, and then also to think: we are now intercontinental, globally so far connected. we cannot control the whole world, but in europe we can try to make a start and really see that not by compulsion but by information we can get people to actually do what is best for their children in particular so that they can have a healthy life later on. i've also gotten emails from people who are vaccine skeptics and who are telling me, "you're going to force us now". we don't want that at all. we don't want to force, we want to clarify. i repeat: inform and be transparent. we also want to build trust in the doctors to provide good information. and then we want to let people choose what's best for their family.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think that mr krasnodębski's comments were too negative. my interest, and that of the majority of the committee on culture, is to strengthen the european higher education area. it is about the european spirit, especially in the face of nationalist tendencies and doubts about the european project, and bologna is a profoundly positive european process. it's about a shared dorm room. that is precisely what we want to achieve for our young people. why are we discussing this today? the conference of ministers responsible for the bologna process will be held in paris in may, and we want to see this process given a boost and greater political commitment from the participating countries. we are particularly concerned about the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the budget for the next financial year. we want above all to simplify and improve the recognition of diplomas.
a writer. the commission is not the call by the philippine president for his own police to step up their attacks on human rights organizations is just one example of the rapidly deteriorating human rights situation. there is only an official list of about 600 people accused of being members of the new people's army and declared terrorists. human rights activists are also on this list. one of them is victoria tauli-corpuz, the un special rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples. many of the listed persons are afraid of being victims of extrajudicial killings. we welcome the fact that the chief prosecutor of the international criminal court has now launched a preliminary investigation to clarify whether the crimes committed in the context of duterte's war on drugs constitute crimes against humanity. the eu must use all its means to press for the correction of this devastating policy. in this context, reports are worrying that future agreements with the philippines will not include human rights clauses. that would be a catastrophic false signal. i would ask you, commissioner malmström, to take this into account.
a writer. the commission is not i'm afraid i only have a minute. what mr preda said cannot stand still in the chamber. he only sees hamas and says nothing about what the israeli defense forces did. today marks the 75th anniversary of the warsaw ghetto uprising, the 70th anniversary of israel's independence and the 50th anniversary of the occupation of palestine. when israel celebrates its independence, it must be said that the international community supported israel at that time. but this also obliges israel, under international law, to respect human rights, and everything that israel does permanently in the time of the status quo is a violation of human rights and of international law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the situation in the gaza strip is not further aggravated by the use of snipers, who have killed three children, among others, and this is a gross violation of human rights and international law. we must and will condemn this as a parliament.
the next item is the debate on the enlarged request for a written answer to the commission by mr ivan jakovčić, on behalf of the alde group, on the situation of the european shipbuilding industry (o-000022/2018 b8-0019/2018) (2018/2672 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, i want to thank everyone for their remarks. i think that the shipyard and maritime industry is so important that we probably need to take action – even more action than we’ve being doing so far – for the next 18 months. as i mentioned our leadership 2020 programme – which is the right framework and which provided the necessary orientation to our industries to embrace the new challenges, new opportunities to discuss innovation, the circular economy, and digitalisation – i am confident that while of course it cannot be fast, because we are jointly discussing it and making joint efforts with all stakeholders involved, it will continue to deliver useful results in the future. member states, of course, have a key role in ensuring that the industry meets new challenges and takes advantage of the opportunities. of course, we have to continue to work both with the member states, with the parliament, and with the stakeholders in the industry, but i can commit to you that i will look in those fields where our activities should be stronger and where our action can really make a difference, including access to finance, including access to markets. we are doing a lot on skills. we are doing a lot on access to markets, but i think that we will maybe get some new perspective while creating them, discussing the new budget generally on the industry – but in this framework also for the shipyard industry – so this is not the end of our discussion.
the debate is closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
mr president, the situation in venezuela is very grave and serious, and that’s why it needs serious treatment. however, the epp request is not in line with rule 156, which says that, except in cases of urgency, a debate and a vote shall not be held on a text unless it has been made available to members at least 24 hours earlier, which has not happened. now you might say that maybe this is an emergency, but that there is going to be a vote in may was announced on 2 march. it’s two months since then, so i really do not see an emergency under this rule. the rule is there in order to allow all groups to be able to have an opinion about the text, to make amendments and to be engaged. we should not leave it up to the big groups or the president alone to change the rules however they want. we have the rules for a reason.
mr president, i cannot really follow this, because in the previous resolutions it didn’t really say anything about the may resolutions. i totally understand the intention to have a resolution, but you should have announced it earlier. again, it’s been two months, so if you are going to then declare any sort of declaration which was then only prepared by one group or another, then that would not really be following any procedure either. we can have a debate, but a resolution is not possible under rule 156.
mr president, you can of course always declare what is written in the resolution, but the resolutions so far are not saying anything about the elections in may. so that kind of contradicts each other, so we can also vote.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, the us tariffs that might or not be put on the eu is a hot issue right now in the public debate all over europe. but even so, even we as co-legislators are not at all informed about what the commission is doing. just today we had an in-camera meeting where some of our inta colleagues were able to get some really interesting information about what’s going on, but we think that this information should be shared broader, with all of us but also publicly. the commission might actually be trying also to get a mandate for a new trade negotiation with the us still this month. so if we as a european parliament want to have a say on what’s inside the mandate – what the commission should negotiate and what they shouldn’t negotiate – then we have to talk about that now, in this plenary session, and we can’t wait for the strasbourg session, because by then the mandate will already be done. that’s why i’m asking you to agree to have a debate about this still in this mini-session, so that we as parliament can have a say on this.
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, thank you for organising today's meeting in such a timely manner. the commission wanted to present its proposals first to parliament and then to the press, not the other way around. therefore, we present them first to you. ladies and gentlemen, madam president-in-office of the council, the commission has just adopted this morning the proposals it has made for the next multiannual financial framework. i will leave it to commissioner oettinger, who was the patient, inspired and tireless architect of this new budgetary architecture, to present it to you in detail, but i would like, if you will allow me, to highlight a few points. every budget is important. the new budgetary framework is even more important than the one currently in force because it will determine the future of our europe of 27 and, therefore, the future we will leave to future generations. this is the debate we launched last year with the white paper on the future of europe and a series of reflection papers, including on the future of the union's finances. this is a debate in which this parliament has fully participated and i welcome our close cooperation on such a crucial subject. when we presented our white paper on 1 march last year, i told you that we face enormous challenges in a world which is changing a little more every day at breakneck speed. in bratislava and then in rome, 27 of us made the choice to take control of these developments, to seize them and to take advantage of the new opportunities, which are so promising. we have chosen a stable europe, a more prosperous europe, a more social europe and a stronger europe in the world. we have made the choice to move forward and this choice must be met by a modern, simplified and more flexible budget. to meet current and future challenges, union policies and programmes need to be endowed with sufficient budgetary resources. the level of the budget is not a neutral issue, it is directly linked to our ambition. the departure of the united kingdom is a factor which must be taken into account. we have made a thorough examination of all the policies and we are proposing an ambitious but balanced budget, fair for all. our proposal for a multiannual financial framework for the period 2021-2027 represents a total amount of eur 1 279 billion. it incorporates the european development fund, which has hitherto been an intergovernmental agreement and which will henceforth be a community agreement respecting the community method. (applause) i would like to thank by combining additional contributions, limited but necessary to finance the new priorities and a number of targeted economies, the commission proposes a financial framework equivalent to 1.11% of gross domestic product. this is a reasonable and responsible proposal. if we had not done this rigorous examination of all policies, if we had simply responded to the many requests, if we had simply added the need for new policies to the existing policies unchanged, maintaining rebates, other specific arrangements for certain member states, if we had kept the european development fund intact, if we had not taken into account the 15 billion resulting from the uk's departure, we would have arrived at a proposal close to 2% of gross domestic product. this proposal would have been immediately rejected by all the member states and by a good number of you. we wanted to present a proposal which would be taken seriously and which could form the basis for future negotiations. mr president, the budget we are proposing is one where every euro spent will bring a higher return than purely national expenditure, with emphasis on the european added value of all expenditure. it is a budget that, in order to better respond to the challenges that will shape our future, establishes a virtuous intersection between existing modernised policies such as cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, which remain important, and new priorities, whether it is the protection of our borders, the digital economy, research, innovation or european defence. it is a budget that innovates in its structure to make our priorities more visible and innovates in simplifying its rules to create better synergies between the different programmes that we propose to reduce from 58 to 37 with rules that will be more easily applicable. it is a budget that is innovative in the new flexibility it offers to enable us to implement our priorities and to respond to unforeseen situations. it is also an innovative budget, with the introduction of budgetary instruments dedicated to our economic and monetary union. economic and social convergence are central objectives of european cohesion policy, recently reinforced by our investment plan, which we propose to pursue and further consolidate under the name invest european union. we also present two new instruments which combine solidarity and responsibility. a reform support programme with a budget of €25 billion, including in member states wishing to join the euro area, and an investment stabilisation function that could mobilise up to €30 billion to maintain activity and employment in the event of major economic shocks. these two instruments go hand in hand. they strengthen the architecture of our union, contribute to the resilience of our economies and societies and aim to prevent and better address crises where they arise. we also propose to strengthen the link between the european budget and respect for the rule of law. respect for the rule of law is an essential precondition for sound financial management and effective budget implementation. we therefore propose a new mechanism to protect the budget from the financial risks associated with widespread deficiencies in the rule of law. this mechanism is of general application, it is not a priori aimed at individual member states, but it is an important aspect of the new budgetary architecture of europe. finally, mr president, we are proposing a budget which is innovative in that it gives equal weight to the budgetary consequences of our political choices and to the sources of financing for the community budget. we cannot pretend that the problem of own resources does not arise. the commission proposes, following a constant request from your parliament, to introduce new own resources directly linked to european policies. the debate on our proposals is just beginning. they'll be long and intense. there are many of us in this chamber, my dear guy, who have attended these long budgetary nights of the european council, so i know that the debates will be long, that we will need a lot of passion and determination. the conclusion before the european parliament elections is in everyone's interest because, from day one, the continuity of our funding must be ensured. our future cannot wait. mr president, if i may, following the debate you have had between yourselves, i would perhaps like to say a few words about the exemption granted to the european union from steel and aluminium tariffs, which was generously granted by the president of the united states. we have taken note of this decision but i would like to reiterate here the call to make this exemption unconditional and permanent. we believe that the us measures cannot be justified on the basis of national security considerations. they have no place among allies and we therefore call for their withdrawal outright. we will continue our negotiations with the united states, but we refuse to negotiate under threat. (applause) i would like to thank
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in preparing this seven-year budgetary framework, we were faced with two fundamental problems: the gap created by the departure of the united kingdom and new tasks which we should, as we all know, solve at european level, tasks which were not visible at the beginning of the current mff: migration, the fight against terrorism, border control and protection, defence research, the defence industry, new social challenges. we are tackling these two problems by, on the one hand, saving and, on the other, asking the member states to make slightly higher payments. both of these things -- saving and investing a little bit more -- seem to be right. savings: we have three groups of programmes. the first is the same, the second is increased in line with the new tasks, the third is reduced moderately. if you have to cut back, you can't get around the two biggest programs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. new tasks: we want to double erasmus+ and we want to finance it with interrail. i think that the fact that we are now inviting twice as many young people to come and experience europe, its cultures, its languages, its people during their studies and training is an excellent offer. (applause from the centre) secondly, research. in order to compete with silicon valley, the pentagon, and our chinese and asian partners and competitors, we need to invest more in research and innovation. some member states do this themselves, but many cut back in this area. we raise. innovation, research, horizon, europe and digital we want to increase our investment in europe by 60% to improve our competitiveness, to improve our researchers, to improve jobs. thirdly, security and defence. we see that there are reasons for flight and hardship outside europe that can lead to flight. that is why we will also be expanding our neighbourhood and world aid and creating a chapter for this, called neighbourhood and the world, because we want to re-design our sections in general. the five headings we have are not legible to the citizen: headings 1b, 3. i know from my previous job that chapters in the budget must be readable. school, infrastructure, environment, social, defense, homeland security. we're going to increase to seven sections, and in addition to the familiar topics, section 1 is innovation and digital, section 4 is migration and border management, and section 5 is new security and defense. and on the basis of pesco and our defence programme, we now want to propose not only that the european union invests eur 500 million a year in defence research and then just eur 1 billion in defence industry, but we want to increase the amount so that at the end of this budgetary framework, in conjunction with our member states, we can allocate eur 2 billion to defence industry, and thus a multiple of this amount. border management: we need to know who's coming to us; we must know the legal basis. this is about the rule of law. but bulgaria, greece, italy, malta, cyprus, perhaps poland are very much in demand, or even over-in demand, with this issue. it is in the interest of all europe. we should create a basis for not having to continue internal border controls on a permanent basis austria/germany, hungary/austria or germany/denmark. if we want to restore the free movement of people, goods and capital within our borders, we must be able to control the external borders, and our member states need support and solidarity there. that is why - you will be surprised - we propose to increase frontex's staff in stages, as required, from 1 200 today to 10 000 by the end of the mff. i believe that this is a strong sign of european capacity to act, but also that member states can then be asked to reduce their internal border controls bit by bit. we are reducing the number of programmes from 58 to 37 by means of aggregation, in order to make it a little easier for the citizen to know which programmes he can use. the single rule book, i.e. a common set of rules and simplification in general, are complementary. we want to increase the life programme and thus our climate and nature protection activities by 50% and will thus make an effective contribution to the paris agreement and the conservation of nature and the environment also getting a correspondingly strengthened offer at european level and with a percentage of 5.5% for mainstreaming climate protection we will create a complementary upward basis for this. the rule of law was mentioned by my president. it's taxpayer money on the line. the point is that we must be sure that if there is a dispute over european budget programmes, if there are any legal disputes on the ground, the independence of the courts - the third authority and the appointment of judges - must be without any danger, without any threat. and therefore a link between the rule of law and the refusal or allocation of funds from the european budget. it was important to them that there should also be new own resources, so that contributions from national budgets would not be permanently 70% or more of our total revenue. with the various proposals you have before you, we want to get about 10% of our revenue from new own resources, about eur 24 billion new, including the tried and tested emissions trading system, including corporate tax, but also completely new measures. we propose that an amount be paid to the european budget alongside the amount of plastic that is not recyclable. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to meet its own needs. i think this is a very unbureaucratic and environmentally and forward-looking way forward. we believe that with these new own resources we can close the brexit gap by 50% and fully meet the new tasks migration, defence, security, digital europe , that the contribution from national budgets will only need to increase moderately, if at all, and not at all. the inclusion of the european development fund strengthens the european parliament's monarchy. this will make you more co-responsible than ever before for all programmes, tasks and expenditure, on an equal footing with the council. we have the following result in the calculation, knowing what has been written in your report, in the reports of your colleagues from parliament: expected to be 1.3% of gnp. we know that we are at 1.0% to 1.03% in this mff, and we believe that despite all this, realism is necessary. we can prove to you, if you care about the programmes, that no programme has been damaged, that we are taking on many new tasks, that we are reinvesting in the future of the european union. and yet, because of the good economic development, because of the good growth forecast, we are coming to a gnp that will be 1.114 . the total amount of aid for the period from 1 january to 31 december is 1.114, including the development assistance fund, which alone accounts for about 0.03%. the so-called net contributors should also be prepared to take this as a basis for discussion, as a compromise proposal well-intentioned from the outset, to meet this ambition parliament on the one hand and the willingness of the member states to contribute more on the other. one last point: i have noticed from the discussions of the last few days that nationally you add everything together: inflation, brexit, new tasks, reduction of rebates and gdp growth. i can't do that. we have, in fact, five elements that are responsible for the nominal increase in our annual budget. we have to be very careful about the way we use our money, and we have to be very careful about the way we use it. but let's be clear: if you compare a 2014 household with a 2027 household, there are worlds in between! increases in the cost of roads, railways, environmental measures, gas pipelines, salaries for researchers and staff. this means that those who are anchored in national fiscal policy compare 2018 to 2019 2%, 3% on top. if we look at seven years, or even fourteen years, we find greater increases in seven times 1.8% inflation, seven times 2% increase in gross value added, etc. this automatically leads to higher nominal contributions, which are surprising at first, but are fully explainable and still meet the requirement of thrift. one final point: from many talks with farmers, mayors, regional governments, infrastructure ministers and farmers, i make the following request: the sooner we consult, the more intensively, the sooner we decide, the better. the lessons of the current mff must be: 2013 the adoption was far too late. if 2014 was a lost year it was a lost year , 2021 shouldn't be another lost year. i therefore ask this parliament to make the mff its priority by easter next year. i would ask the president, whom i greet and who has been very constructive in her cooperation, to make this a priority for the council in spring, summer, autumn and winter. then europe can show that the british are leaving good governance among 27 with very conflicting interests is a hallmark of a viable european democracy. (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. mr president, i am always very sensitive when your generosity leads you to give me the floor again, but i have taken a stand on the issues that are the responsibility of the united states i have said two or three sentences. let's just say we don't like to negotiate under duress and i'd like to leave it at that, but thank you again for being so kind to give me the floor again.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today is an important day, it's about money, it's about the future of our continent. and it is important for us as the epp group to point out first of all that the money we have spent on taxpayers so far has been well invested, that the eu budget is a good budget. it is a benefit to the continent's prosperity, to research, to the efsi, which was launched by our president-elect, jean-claude juncker. solidarity benefits cohesion policy is the cornerstone of this, all of europe benefits from it. it is beneficial for our farmers, our farmers who are suffering in the face of globalisation, and for those who are on the sidelines, and it is beneficial for the future of our young generation with erasmus. the existing budget, the money we are investing across europe, is well-invested money, and that is why the epp group wants to defend it in the first place. the proposed cuts will now be discussed with the parties concerned: the farmers, the mayors, the local representatives and also the research community. we shall discuss it and then decide how to deal with it, and no one should question the resolve of this parliament. we will have a very difficult instrument in our hands when it comes to codecision, namely the fund regulations, the arrangements for disbursement of funds, and we will of course see it as a common package: the mff discussion and the fund regulations. the second point i want to make is the necessary self-criticism expressed by the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we believe that the proposals now before us are moving in the right direction. they ensure budgetary clarity - especially in the case of rebates - and clarity in budget planning on other matters - and we support this. and some of those who are already saying that they want to cut back even further on the proposal, even further back, i would be in favour of the council also making butter with the fish, which will then also be introduced: where are the cuts to be made? the abstract discussion that we have from the member states, in part, that is being discussed about numbers, must come to an end. anyone who wants europe to lose even more money should now say to whom he wants to take it away. the third point i would like to make, ladies and gentlemen, is that europe and the world are undergoing fundamental changes. the new priorities that have been suggested are therefore necessary and appropriate. i am pleased that security and border management are two separate blocks in this new budget structure, and we are giving people the assurance that we are getting something concrete: drone technology, cyber warfare - all these issues are only possible if we arm ourselves together against them - 10,000 frontex officers. a strong signal that we are investing in research is that my group decided a few days ago that we want to double the funds for cancer drugs, because perhaps we as a continent should be the first to set the goal of being able to really defeat cancer with the scientific expertise that we have on this continent. all great future projects worth fighting for. and youth: erasmus and - if i may say so explicitly again - the budget plans for interrail are clear promises that this european commission is serious about the young generation. thank you for that. finally, we in the epp group want to conclude before the european elections. we do not want a policy of conflict, but a policy of solution. europe needs stability and we have provided for the possibility of revision clauses, so that the next parliament may then want to make changes if it deems this necessary. so, with respect to the next legislative term, it's clear that we can close before 2019. it is a modest but ambitious proposal: it preserves what is good, it reinforces what is new. the epp sees this proposal as a good starting point for the next discussions.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, president juncker, commissioner, yes, we welcome the fact that you go directly to this house of legislation, to the european parliament, to the house of the people. yes, we appreciate that. and we also appreciate that you give a time-frame which allows for substantial negotiations, with the intention to finalise within this mandate. both are good. but now we have to check on the content? do you yourself regard this as being the commission of the last chance? i remember that very well. is this really the concept and the proposal of the commission of the last chance for the forthcoming decade? are you really sure that this already is an answer to the challenges of today and tomorrow? are you really sure that within your proposal we will find the vision for the young people of europe for tomorrow? haben sie wirklich schon die vision in dieses konzept eingearbeitet, die wir dringend brauchen, um unsere jugend – um die menschen in europa – wieder für europa zu begeistern, um sie zu beschützen, um ihnen zu zeigen, wo wir hingehen wollen? ich habe meine zweifel. werte kolleginnen und kollegen, wir in der sozialdemokratischen fraktion haben uns angewöhnt, dass wir über wirtschaft nur noch reden wollen, wenn wir über arbeit reden, dass wir über arbeit nur noch reden wollen, wenn wir über umwelt reden, und dass wir über umwelt nur noch reden, wenn wir auch über die soziale welt reden. ja, auch die menschen mit niedrigem einkommen brauchen saubere energie. auch die menschen, wo das familieneinkommen klein ist, wollen nicht an ausfallstraßen wohnen, wo ihre kinder an den autoabgasen ersticken. wir brauchen gesamtheitliche entwürfe. in unserer gemeinsamen arbeit in der europäischen union haben wir ansatzpunkte dafür. wir haben die lissabon-strategie, wir haben die europa-2020-strategie. warum gehen wir nicht einen mutigen schritt weiter und sagen insgesamt als kommission, so wie wir das in unserer sozialdemokratischen fraktion sagen: unsere strategie wird die strategie der vereinten nationen sein – sich an den nachhaltigkeitszielen, an ganzheitlichen konzepten zu orientieren und dafür zu sorgen, dass die un-2030-nachhaltigkeitsziele unsere konkrete politik für die nächsten jahre werden. das ist das, was ich vermisse, ebenso wie das entsprechende volumen, das wir brauchen. ja, ansätze sind da, sie haben das verdienst, dass sie über die neuen aufgaben sprechen, aber gemessen an dem vorschlag – werte kollegen, auch von der evp – dieses hauses, mit großer übereinstimmung beschlossen, fehlen 220 milliarden, verteilt über sieben jahre. es geht um solidarität, es geht um den kampf gegen wachsende ungleichheit, und deswegen vermisse ich auch hier einen wichtigen einnahmeposten: die frage, warum internetriesen für das europäische budget nicht eigentlich steuern zahlen sollten. es wird nicht sein! dieses europa wird nicht sein, wenn die arbeitnehmer die einzigen sind, die unmittelbar steuern zahlen, weil ihnen das vom lohnstreifen abgezogen wird, wenn die kleinen, mittelständischen die ehrlichen steuerzahler sind, aber wir die big digitals nicht zum zahlen bekommen. helfen sie mit, das zu ändern, es geht um die menschen, die unsere zuversicht und unsere orientierung brauchen. es geht um den handwerker in spanien, um den studenten in warschau, es geht um die jungen menschen überall in unseren ländern, die darauf warten, gute arbeit in einer guten welt zu finden.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i am very grateful to you for the many subjects you have presented in detail, and i must say that they largely correspond to my own views on the priorities for the future work and the direction of our union. i would like to thank you very much for the courage you showed in cutting down the proposals of this parliament. you know, i wish you had more courage, because we have to cut more. we cannot have it seem as if we are talking abstractly about sums coming from somewhere! this is taxpayers' money, and it needs to be earned first. it doesn't fall from the sky! mr president, you have rightly said and pointed out: they have published a white paper, and it was announced at the time that we would be discussing this white paper in the eu. i wonder where this discussion took place! in germany, at least not at least not enough. we have not clarified: what are the future tasks of the eu, what are we concerned with, what can we really do better at eu level than at the level of the member states? there's a lot of things we can do better. but we are also doing a lot of things that we cannot do better at eu level, and that includes, for example, the area of agricultural support. i am referring specifically to this area, mr weber, because agricultural development is precisely the point where theory and practice differ. we say that we want to give the developing countries a fair chance of trading with the eu, but at the same time we are blocking the eu markets through agricultural policy. this is absurd! it is absolutely absurd that we in africa are not giving farmers the opportunity to trade fairly, and in europe we are spending huge sums that are going to be redistributed somewhere, creating an enormous amount of bureaucracy. we should start there, and i think that is just one essential point where we can make the eu better than it is now. that is why i also believe that it is not good to give the impression that if the eu budget is big enough, we will also have a good eu that can help everywhere. it will not work, we will disappoint people's expectations - it cannot be otherwise. instead, we should start where we are really good at something and leave the other things to the member states.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, deciding where the money should go for the next years is where we, as eu institutions, are setting our priorities. there can be a lot of council talks, there can be a lot of speeches all around, but if we don’t put money into it, then it’s not going to happen. and that’s why we also need to have a reality check here. do we really mean what we say, and do we really mean what we sign? because everyone wants to be on the photo at the paris climate change agreement, everyone wanted to be on it when it was signed, but whether we save the planet for ourselves and for future generations, that’s not decided by selfies. it’s decided by who is doing what, and when. and the budget of the eu – our budget – must show that there is a clear commitment to saving this planet. so i am happy to see that more money will be put into climate-related issues, but if we’re ending up at 25%, that’s certainly a step in the right direction, but it’s a very small step. we should actually be at 50% spending on climate-change-related issues. and what is true for climate change is certainly also true for the development goals. there also we all signed and we all proclaimed, and we all claimed to agree that we need to do something to remove the reasons for why people have to flee their homes. but that means working against poverty worldwide, and if we don’t spend at least 0.7% of our gni on sustainable development, following very clear criteria, then we’re failing the global community. and we are also betraying our own pious sunday speeches. what kind of future do we want to see for the european union? that is where the money should go – to social policies, youth programmes, research, and also farming that is good for people and the planet. and all this money needs to be spent well. too much is being diverted, misused, and even contributes right now to fraud and to corruption in member states. eu citizens need to know that every euro spent has an added value and delivers results. i think this is one of the biggest tasks that this budget has to do – making sure that it helps the rule of law, without taking citizens hostage for their governments’ behaviour and without creating a rift between any geographical parts of europe. the eu should rather support local groups and initiatives that promote european values directly, and if governments don’t comply with basic rule-of-law standards, then the money going to those member states should be managed by the commission itself so that it will benefit the communities and municipalities, but not some individuals, indeed, that are filling their pockets. all this money has to come from somewhere, and we are very happy that the commission is proposing to establish new forms of own resources. we very much agree with your ideas for that: a common corporate tax base, emission trading system benefiting the eu budget, and a plastic tax. (of course we would also have more ideas for that). and with that proposal, the eu would finally have more own income, independently of the whims of the member states, and those revenue sources would be contributing to something good: fairer taxes, less plastic pollution and less climate change. we are very much ready to discuss your proposals. we will look into the details and we are ready to work together with you and finally, together, drag europe into the century of the fruit bat.
mr president, the plenary assembly has met two hours earlier today, on the spur of the moment, because that is what mr juncker and mr oettinger wanted. i would point out that if this were a powerful parliament, the president of the commission would naturally have to follow parliament's lead and not the parliament's reaction to the commission president's timetables. this is incredible! i wonder what kind of democracy that is. this is the house of representatives. now , on to the household . the commission is presenting a budget of 1 trillion, which is to rise by some 18 per cent from 1 087 to 1 279 billion euros. this is a slap in the face to the citizens. the eu loses the second largest net contributor, the uk. but you're asking the taxpayers for a few extra bucks. this is outrageous. you've obviously lost touch with reality. i can think of nothing, nothing at all, that you can use to explain or justify this increase in the budget. the receipt for your non-transferable trillion budget will be received by the citizens and taxpayers with the 2019 european elections. the voters will turn to us, the eurosceptics, the true federalists, the fighters against centralism and disempowerment in droves. you'll see!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the most important message today from this debate is that we need a bigger budget in the eu because we have bigger tasks to tackle. this is the crucial point, and that is why this proposal made by the commission, mr juncker and mr oettinger, is characterized by the european spirit, and that is extremely important in this situation where europe is being called into question by many. we are also facing a paradigm shift in some areas, and this cannot be underestimated because it is a sign of political courage. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this must come from new taxes - environmental taxes, plastic taxes - which are of course green, but i would urge the digital tax. i was very saddened, mr oettinger, that you could not mention this today. i hope that will change. we must tax digital monopolies appropriately, because we can also make adequate social, educational and cultural policies in the member states and in the eu if these monopolies contribute to the budget. but that is why it is so important that you have made suggestions to be careful in some areas, to become more efficient, to become greener. not enough. we greens want to have 50 percent environmental spending, of course. but you have put great emphasis on research, education, culture, youth and empowerment. thank you very much. i hope we can convince the council that we are talking about a stronger european union, and i am prepared to do everything to make this budget a success.
mr president, commissioner oettinger, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. first of all, i would like to thank you, mr weber, as the chairman of the epp group, for this refreshing and encouraging pro-european speech, which i particularly like to hear from a csu politician. my request would be - and i would also be glad if you would follow the debate - that when you leave the chamber you call your new prime minister, because i am a little concerned about the first statement from munich on this mff, and if you can convince mr söder of your point of view, i would feel much better. ladies and gentlemen, in this debate i hear a great deal about expenditure on agricultural policy and many calls for savings. i know that many farmers complain about the administrative costs, the bureaucracy they have to carry out, the high reporting requirements. i have not heard any complaints from farmers about being swamped with money and not knowing what to do with it. so when we cut agricultural policy, we are cutting the income base of farmers. then, of course, you can demand that this be renationalized here in this room - i have heard that too - but it will not be cheaper. whether we take the money we need to support agricultural policy, to make it greener by the way - which is not a lot of money to make - from the european budget or from the national budget, the taxpayers don't care in the end. we should not pretend that the european agricultural policy is expensive, that the national policy is also expensive. if we talk about revenue, it has been worked out: yes, taxes have been worked out, but they are being withheld, and in this eu it only takes money to afford the right advisers to not have to pay taxes anymore. i think we should be able to tax the digital companies that have been evading taxation on their income.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is really the square of the circle to put the post-2020 budget here: closing the brexit funding gap, funding new tasks and continuing old tasks. the commission has put forward a bold and interesting proposal. i look forward to the further discussions here in this house. i would like to address two issues: firstly, it is important to me that we continue to give our farmers comprehensive support, preferably without cuts. our farmers provide us with healthy food, our farmers maintain our cultural landscape. i am open to more targeted, more precise support. small farms, family farms, medium-sized farms, active farmers should be supported. but i hope we don't have to make any cuts. secondly, it is right to increase the number of staff at the external borders. i think that the 10,000 people who work for frontex are the right signal for full support. and of course, if there is money left over, or for research, innovation, education programmes like erasmus, every penny is well spent, these should be our priorities.
i would like to ask you to take this opportunity to thank the commissioner for his reply. i think the house expressly welcomes the bold step. we should put it this way: 100 billion euros for research and innovation. and this is not in opposition to agriculture or cohesion, but it is a vision of the future. 60% of europeans who are ten years old today will be working in a profession that does not yet exist. we are facing epochal changes, and research and the vision that research and development and innovation will give this generation jobs and prospects is an important vision for europe. it's also a question of freedom. we live in a world of global competition in research, but in china, research is not free, in america, there's an american president whose own administration has to try to hide climate data from him. europe is holding up the torch of enlightenment. research and innovation is also a question of participation, because only informed citizens and the access of all to research, development and future prospects have something to do with participation, democracy, participation and decision-making, so that it is not reserved for elites or politicians to have this information. i would ask you to be bold, and i would advise you not to be so timid, not to say 'research' on sunday and 'saving' on monday.
in writing. it will not be easy to balance the funding gaps created by brexit with the need to fund new tasks. i welcome the plans for security, border management and the increase to 10 000 frontex staff. the same applies to the increases for research and erasmus+. it is important to me that the funds are used effectively and arrive where they are intended.
in writing. – in the interests of european citizens and businesses, the adoption and implementation of the european budget cannot suffer any delay. this means that the mff should be finalised before the 2019 european elections. commissioner günther oettinger can count on my support. challenges such as security and migration require european leadership, which is reflected in the european budget with the creation of a european defence programme, additional backing for military mobility and the tripling of the funding allocated to border management and migration. the mff must continue successful policies such as the common agricultural policy (cap) and cohesion policy. preparing for the future also means investing in our people and knowledge. i fully support the european commission’s increased budget for erasmus+, research and innovation. we need to give ourselves the means to realise our ambitions. it is not only about additional resources but using the ones we have more efficiently. ‘brexit’ may impact the shape of the eu’s budget but it will not change its course nor its priorities. the mff post-2020 will shape the next decade of our continent. it is our duty to make sure that each european benefits from it.
thank you very much, mr. marias. i hope you can prove what you just said, because those are serious accusations. you should be very careful.
thank you very much, commissioner. in fact, less than 5% is fraud, and more than 95% is not fraud. that too must be emphasized.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 3 may 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by andrey novakov, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the implementation of cohesion policy and the achievement of the thematic objective 'promoting sustainable transport and removing bottlenecks in key network infrastructures' (article 9 (7) of the cpr) (2017/2285(ini)) (a8-0136/2018).
we now come to the spontaneous wording procedure. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i will say that the commission has already made a number of proposals. spontaneous speech
i thank you very much, mr rapporteur. you're also one of the few who's always kept to the speaking times. thanks for that, too. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 3 may 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on stalking offences and protection of victims in the eu (2018/2665 ((rsp)).
a writer. the commission is not when we visited the balkan route in 2015/16, many migrants told us that children had disappeared. some of them reappeared in other places, others disappeared forever. they have been slaughtered for the organ trade, enslaved as laborers, abused for sexual services or somehow and somewhere killed. the eu has known for a long time that children are the most at risk when they flee, but it does nothing! although the protection of children is the first duty of a society. besides, it doesn't matter where the kids come from. the eu and its member states are doing nothing because they are more concerned with closing borders than protecting children's lives. the commission and the member states - whatever you say today, mrs jourová - are indifferent to the fate of these children, and the fact that no consistent, real action has been taken to date against the trafficking and abuse of children is also a sign of this. and that you care so much about children at heart is shown by the fact that today, migrant children can be put in an asylum prison in any member state of our european union, if a member state wants to. we consider it a violation of human rights to intern children. we demand that families be reunited as soon as possible and that children be given what they deserve: family and security and no barbed wire! ladies and gentlemen, we in the gue/ngl call for easier and faster asylum procedures for all underage asylum seekers. we condemn the fingerprinting of children. ask the experts what they say. they laugh sickly about it, because it's nonsense and besides, children are criminalised. we want to see the integration of migrant children become the norm in all member states - in schools, in healthcare, in housing, in care, everywhere! i urge you to do something, not just talk.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i've heard a lot of things that are true, but i have to admit, with all due respect, i think that's a little populist, too. because we just have to look at the facts: there are currently over 50 000 unaccompanied minors living in germany. they're supposed to be underage refugees. because some people refuse to even carry out a very concrete age determination. it is absolutely indisputable that we must be particularly active in supporting refugee minors. but you have to know who's underage. if you don't, you're undermining the acceptance of any sensible solution. it is a pity that this point is not addressed, and it is a pity for me that it is not discussed. if you're just talking about wanting to help, that's not a political approach. we also have to make sure that we create a solution that is accepted by the population, and what i have heard so far is far from that.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the following questions: the request for an oral reply to the council on the worldwide ban on animal testing of cosmetic products by sirpa pietikäinen, miriam dalli, bolesław g. piecha, frédérique ries, stefan eck, marco affronte, eleonora evi, sylvie goddyn, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000040/2018 - b8-0017/2018) - (2017/2922rsp)) and the request for an oral reply to the commission on the worldwide ban on animal testing of cosmetic products by sirpa pietikäinen, miriam dalli, bolesław g. piecha, ries, stefan eck, marco affronte, eleonora fronta, evi, sylvie goddyn, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000040/2018 - b8-0041/2018) - (2017/2222rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, thank you for the opportunity to discuss the possibility of a global ban on animal testing for cosmetic products with you today. your question touches upon several aspects of this important issue, which is of great interest for consumers worldwide. i would like to take the questions you raised one by one, insofar as they fall within the sphere of activity and competence of the council. in the introduction to their questions, the honourable members point out that the european union ban on animal testing for cosmetic products, which is stipulated in article 18 of the cosmetics regulation, and fully applicable in the internal market since march 2013, has had positive consequences. as a co-legislator which is co-responsible for this outcome, the council certainly shares your view. your further questions point more to the future. regarding the current global impact and acceptance by third countries of the eu ban on animal testing for cosmetics, we have to differentiate between a statistical-economic part and a legal part. the council does not specifically analyse the global impact of the eu ban on trade flows. this task is more for the commission, and the commissioner will most probably be able to say more. according to my information, eu industry and eu consumers have so far not registered any more major problems with regard to profitability or availability of products. from the legal side, an acceptance of the eu ban by third countries is not specifically necessary in the sense that third countries can regulate their own markets as they see fit. rather, we should speak of an acceptance by third country producers, which is an absolute condition in order to place cosmetics on the eu market. this has been confirmed by the court of justice in the european federation for cosmetic ingredients case in 2016. in this regard, again, i am not aware of any major disruption, but even if producers were finding it difficult to place products on the european market, the european legislator would continue to favour the public interest of animal health over the interest of individual third country producers. on the issue of ensuring that all cosmetics placed on the eu market have never been tested on animals in a third country, as the treaty makes clear, this is in the first instance a task for member states. as you, the honourable members, are aware, market surveillance authorities enforce the cosmetics regulation in the same way as they enforce any other union internal market legislation. article 4 of the cosmetics regulation requires a responsible person within the union to ensure compliance of the products with the regulation, and article 11 provides for a product information file for every product to be placed on the eu market, irrespective of its place of production. article 18 specifies in great detail the eu ban on animal testing. as for any other product, it is not for the council as a legislative and policy-making institution, but for the market surveillance authorities of the member states to check and verify that every product complies with the european rules. on the issue of an international agreement to put an end to the testing of cosmetics on animals worldwide, the council would examine attentively any recommendations from the commission to open negotiations regarding such an agreement. any such agreement would obviously have to be compatible with the cosmetics regulation. it would be for the commission to carry out such negotiations, on the basis of, and in line with, a mandate from the council. provided the negotiations lead to a successful outcome, the council would then be in a position to conclude such an agreement on behalf of the union. this leads me to the question of promoting a global ban at the un. as i have just explained, in line with its competences under the treaty, the council would stand ready to exercise its responsibilities on the international level. finally, on the question of a possible conflict with trade agreements and wto rules, the council is convinced that the cosmetics regulation is in conformity with wto rules and other trade agreements. it is not for the council, as a union co-legislator, to enforce wto rules. nevertheless, let me point out that under the wto system, multilateral action is usually preferred to a unilateral one.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this question and for the opportunity to discuss it today. animal welfare is an extremely important topic for european citizens. it is also important for me personally, so thank you very much. this importance is reflected in the very high animal welfare standards that apply in the eu. it was also, may i remind you, reflected in the very unanimous and strong condemnation of the private tests, for example, mandated lately by some car makers on monkeys in the us. over the last five years we have led the way with our animal testing ban on cosmetics. the ban not only signals our commitment to animal welfare in the european union, but also a new approach to human safety. i want to say it very strongly: we do not need to protect humans by harming animals. it is also visible that during those five years since the ban entered into force, our industry still remains number one in the world. the ban has had an impact also on third countries. it is difficult of course to assess the precise global impact of it, but it is clear that it has inspired many other countries in the world. we have been active in ensuring that it does so in our bilateral contacts and cooperation with third countries. we want as many countries as possible to follow. we have also been very active in developing alternatives to animal testing within the eu, and again we are promoting the acceptance and uptake outside the eu, notably through the oecd. but i have to say again, sadly, that not all of our main trading partners have followed us. we should think about what this means for the treatment of cosmetics imported into the eu. the question is first of all that of enforcement of the ban by the national competent authorities. in practice, the main way of checking compliance of individual cosmetics is the cosmetics products information file. this has to be kept for every cosmetic marketed within the eu. but of course it is clear from information that we received from member states that this file is sometimes very incomplete. secondly, the court of justice recently confirmed that cosmetic products containing ingredients tested on animals outside the eu cannot be sold here in the european union. the animal testing data obtained outside the eu cannot be relied on. the safety has to be proved using some alternatives, but there is of course no guarantee that cosmetics tested on animals outside the eu are not used by our european customers. this needs to change. one solution could be a global ban. this is the reason why we will continue to support any initiative at international level to end animal testing in cosmetics. and our support will go in particular to any initiative by eu member states proposing a un resolution on this matter. the commission will continue to promote the eu ban on animal testing in cosmetics through its international activities, both at bilateral and multilateral level. we also considered proposing clauses on animal testing for future trade agreements whenever appropriate. our ban is firmly in line with the wto technical barrier to trade agreement. this specifies that technical regulations shall not be more trade restrictive than necessary to fulfil a legitimate objective. animal life or health is mentioned as such a legitimate objective. the agreement is also the guiding principle in the eu’s bilateral free trade agreements. so, it has to be said that five years after the eu animal testing ban became fully applicable, the time is ripe for global action. we are thinking carefully about how best to do this. a global ban is of course one option, but we will consider others, and i will keep you informed and involved as our thinking develops.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not close your eyes and imagine this: guinea pigs in tight plastic tubes for hours; mice, toxins in the stomach tube, choking on their own vomit. rabbits sprayed with toxic substances into the eyes; swelling, extreme redness, painful burns and more. yes, ladies and gentlemen, animal testing has been cruelly banned in cosmetics in europe since 2013. they're not gone yet. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. over two million animals are still victimized by the cosmetics industry every year. the world is no different. so far, only israel and india have followed the european example and banned animal testing for cosmetics. in most other countries, including the us, they are still allowed, almost mandatory, as mentioned earlier, in china. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal health standards are respected. let's start today, not tomorrow.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not every year, millions of animals are cruelly killed and tortured for cosmetics. european laws and even our sales ban do not prevent cosmetics from being tested on animals outside the eu and then reaching our internal market. the industry has already outsourced its animal testing to non-eu countries, and it is not possible to verify whether animal testing has been carried out or not. unfortunately, this parliament is generally opposed to animal welfare for economic reasons. tomorrow you'll have the opportunity to pay off some of the debt you've accumulated. i would ask you all to vote in favour of the resolution, because the vast majority of the citizens of europe want to see the end of animal testing. so you're finally representing the interests of the citizens and not those of capital. a famous philosopher once said that the deliberate mutilation of a living being into a bundle of suffering and mute despair is a crime. what else is a crime? we urgently need a un resolution to ban worldwide animal testing for cosmetics so that these crimes can stop. i'm counting on you.
mr president, i very much welcome this debate, which clearly supports the initiative of the european union institutions to talk and work on a global ban on animal testing of cosmetics. i think we need to be the world leader in animal protection. animals as living beings deserve to be treated differently than mere objects and this is one of the themes but, commissioner, it is not the only theme. there are a number of animal-related problems in the european union. the question of the behaviour of fur animals. we banned so-called fur farms in the czech republic last year. it would be good to have a europe-wide ban on these controversial animal breeds for the sake of human beauty, for the sake of fur. there is the problem of transporting tens of thousands of puppies and kittens from the eastern part of the european union to the western part. and so on and so forth. so please let us see animal issues as one of the important agendas of the european union and please let us work on it.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members – thank you very much for all your remarks. firstly, i want to thank almost all of you for your engagement and compassion and i support you along and the commission supports you. it has to be said that you have acted as a pioneer with the animal testing ban in the cosmetics industry, and we have inspired the other regions. as some of you mentioned, we can be proud of this, because we are the world leader on this issue. firstly, i want to say that of course we admit that the others globally use animal testing, but we should act in two ways. the first one is that the commission will continue to be active in promoting the eu animal testing ban in cosmetics at international level including trade agreements and we will continue of course to support any initiative in that direction at international level. secondly, we will remain fully engaged in the development, validation and promotion of alternative methods – ‘alternative’ does not mean human testing: alternative methods means alternative methods, not animals nor humans – to support the promotion of the global ban. i believe that animal testing is a bad thing and we should do our best to avoid it.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for the opportunity to speak for the council on this important issue. we will follow any developments at international level attentively, so we take pride in the positive developments we have reached for the internal market and we will certainly continue working together to defend european interests in all relevant fora, while being realistic on what can be expected from third countries. there is already a first-mover advantage for european union producers with regard to production methods, but this will be just one of the arguments that would have to be raised once we discuss the possibility of a global ban with our trading partners. thank you for your attention.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 3 may 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on improving safety on eu farms by mairead mcguinness, on behalf of the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) (o-000012/2018 - b8-0015/2018) - (2018/2668(rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. i would like to introduce you to our german agricultural social security system. we have health insurance, we have trade unions, we have old age pensions, financed by farmers' membership fees and by a federal grant. unfortunately, accidents are also extremely high in our country: we have 1.5 million businesses, and last year 150 000 accidents were registered and reported, of which 138 were fatal accidents at work, mainly in the forest with tractors, but also with animals. the psychological stresses of farming are also increasing enormously. what are we gonna do about it? we have indeed set up a good prevention system with our social security institutions: we have prevention courses, we have partnership counselling, over 160 000 on-the-spot visits are made to the farms, and we have also helped to create safety days for children in cooperation with rural women's work. all these are things that we need urgently. the most important thing is that we educate and create good offers here. what can the eu level do? perhaps we should actually ask about operational safety in the multiple application. unfortunately, animal welfare is of a higher standard than human welfare. we could integrate that here. we have had eu directives on machinery safety since 2006. however, the agricultural machinery manufacturers are not given a clear indication that this must be included. and we have to consider whether we cannot perhaps also create more safety on forest roads or in the forest in the framework of the second pillar of the cap. all these are important issues. i thank my colleague for putting this subject on the agenda today.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking my colleague mairead mcguinness for the question on safety on farms - an important subject also at european level. i would like to make three additional points. the first is applicability. whatever we initiate here on new farm safety rules, let's do it together with the farmers. they have the experience, they know where new regulations make sense. secondly, the family at work. let's consider that peasant farming happens at home. this means that it is not uncommon for family members, often children, to be victims of agricultural accidents. they need special protection. and third, the farmhouse. the farming and the pleasure of the guests are often a source of danger here too, and we should address this in the course of our considerations. let us work together to ensure that our farmers continue to serve not only with passion but also with absolute security!
mr president, i wanted to point out to my colleagues in the european parliament and to the commission representative that on 14 june, an international day will be held in most european union countries to raise awareness of the transport of live animals, and we should not underestimate this subject. on the one hand we are creating, and i very much welcome and support this, a single european market with the free movement of goods, and on the other hand, unfortunately, these goods are also live animals for slaughter, which are often transported thousands of kilometres away in very difficult conditions. i think that the european union should address this problem and we should consider in the future some regulation which simply ensures that an animal that is being transported thousands of kilometres to be killed is being slaughtered, so that it has conditions in which it will not suffer and will not be mistreated in this way. so, please, june 14th should be an important day for us to gather information about this phenomenon.
prime minister of belgium. mr president of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, mr president of the commission, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, of course, i would like to thank you for this wonderful initiative which breaks the codes: to offer the heads of state and government the opportunity to debate directly with the european parliament elected by universal suffrage. this initiative of yours is useful and necessary, since it brings ideas together, highlights the issues and the different visions to tackle them. ladies and gentlemen, 60 years after the treaty of rome, the european union is once again facing a pivotal moment and in all our countries - including my own - we are experiencing a kind of paradigm shift. the reassuring europe was a matter of course for our grandparents after several centuries of conflict and war. the dividends of peace and prosperity were a tangible reality, valued at their true value. today, in the collective imagination, europe is all too often associated with frightening globalisation, austerity, opacity or a form of technocracy. in a few years, the europe that reassured has become a europe of crises, a europe that worries about financial, economic, debt, migration and even brexit crises, the impression of a europe that suffers and has lost control of its future and its destiny. however, in my view, the added value of europe is real. it is concrete, it is everyday, but is it visible enough? is it noticeable enough? in my opinion, we are facing a fundamental crisis of confidence, a crisis of confidence in public institutions in general, including european institutions, a crisis of confidence also in the traditional media with, in a way, the transparency of social networks that gives a form of illusion with a lot of fake news and also manipulations. yet trust is the key to democracy. democracy is a contract between citizens and their representatives. universal suffrage is the legitimacy to decide, to arbitrate, to make choices and we are faced - not new in history - with extremists of all stripes who stir up fear. they spread the poison of simplicity and caricature to turn people against each other, to encourage withdrawal into themselves and, sometimes, even to try to cause a retreat from basic values. ladies and gentlemen, i am and i want to be a committed european, but not a naive or happy european. europe is doing better. crises are being managed, growth and investment are gradually resuming, our borders are being better controlled, the fight against terrorism is progressing and, more than ever - and i want to share this conviction with you - we must return to the original foundations of the european idea: to win the minds and hearts of our fellow europeans, to convince with an ideal but not only with an ideal, to convince with results, namely peace and security, prosperity and equality, freedom and democracy. i do not think that these are empty words, but rather a firm and persistent ambition. it is a promise we are heirs to. it's a promise we must honor every day. for this reason, i am convinced that, more than ever, the time for choices has once again come. i want to summarize them in three simple questions to which i would like to give my own part of the answer. what do we want to do together, how and with whom? question number one: what do we want to do together? i want a strong europe based on 27 strong states, not a europe that takes care of everything, always and all the time, but a europe that acts whenever its surplus value is real. rather than a futile battle of sovereignty, the member states against the european union, i prefer to choose another path which is that of political primacy. political and democratic primacy in the member states and within the european union. i believe we must break this spiral of a perception of democratic impotence and we must demonstrate by results the complementary added value of the action of the european union and of each of our national democracies. our european, national, regional and local democracies must complement and reinforce each other. in the same way, we must constantly make the solidarity of all coincide with the responsibility of each. ladies and gentlemen, i identify three requirements for giving a new impetus to this european alliance: prosperity, security and european values. first, the need for prosperity. prosperity must be stimulated and encouraged. we must complete the banking union, we must consolidate the economic and monetary union in the euro area, we must reduce risks and share them better, both with each other. in this context, taxation is a national instrument but tax competition, sometimes excessive between member states, is a brake on collective attractiveness in the euro area. how can i explain to my grocer that he pays a higher tax rate than an internet giant that generates billions of euros in turnover on european soil? we must continue cooperation on tax evasion and move gradually towards harmonisation of the corporate tax base. belgium supports the principles proposed by the european commission on gafa and, of course, we are also following closely the work of the oecd in this regard. ladies and gentlemen, the digital agenda and artificial intelligence are, in my view, a wealth of opportunities for our continent. i think that everything is on the table in this respect. let us decide, arbitrate, decide on these issues and we will unlock tremendous potential for jobs and growth. global warming is not a matter of doubt. we only have one planet. the paris agreement must be implemented and, here too, the energy transition is an opportunity for innovation and for the transformation of our economic model. as a liberal, i naturally support free trade, because history has shown that free trade has always promoted harmony between peoples. it has always brought about economic and social progress. free trade is virtuous whenever the relations between the parties are fair. reciprocity based on high social and environmental standards must be our objective. it is in this spirit that i have personally fought in my country to ensure the signing of ceta and it is in the same spirit that i am fighting to defend the concerns of farmers in relation to mercosur. our farmers cannot be an adjustment variable. clean public finances, additional investment, jobs, purchasing power, that is the virtuous equation. jean-claude juncker's initiative to boost investment was indispensable. i also wanted to bring my country, belgium, into this dynamic with an ambitious national investment pact. economic and social developments go hand in hand. the european pillar of social rights is a step forward and i also want to welcome the efforts to stimulate the convergence of social standards and to strengthen cooperation between member states in this respect. ladies and gentlemen, i now come to the second requirement: safety. ensuring security means guaranteeing the real freedom of every citizen. ensuring security means defending our values of democracy and the rule of law. ensuring security is a shared responsibility and we must, as soon as possible, equip ourselves with an autonomous and credible response capacity against all forms of threat. we must also continue our efforts to secure our external borders. we must also get our security services to cooperate better, to cooperate more in fighting terrorism or in fighting organized crime. belgium wants to be a loyal partner in nato and the european union. we want european defence within nato. pesco and the european defence fund are good instruments for progress. our operational capacity must be in the service of our values and geopolitical interests. in belgium we have faith in multilateralism and yet multilateralism suffers. international standards and rules of good conduct are less respected. in recent years, collective action has declined. but now more than ever, we must think and act globally. we must, for example, develop a real neighbourhood strategy, we must do a better job of preventing regional conflicts, and we must do a better job of anticipating their potential consequences. the sahel, syria and libya are all serious conflicts that can have a profound impact on our future. we must develop a stronger geopolitical ambition to promote our values and defend our interests in the short, medium and long term. i firmly believe that in this changing world, where no one can unilaterally impose his views, the european union has a place to play. we can be the engine of renewed multilateralism and we are the engine for tackling these great challenges facing humanity: peace, security, development or global warming. ladies and gentlemen, migration is an inherent part of human history. we must not fear them, we must apprehend them. belgium has long been ambitious in implementing a migration policy that combines humanity and firmness. we are fighting illegal immigration because it feeds criminal networks and leads to human tragedies unworthy of our century, but should we not also develop a system of legal and organised immigration? sooner or later, we will not avoid this debate. the third requirement, ladies and gentlemen, is european values. from day one, the european union has been built on common values that transcend our differences and identities. a history of glorious moments and tragic sufferings, an intellectual, spiritual, philosophical ferment of scientists, thinkers, statesmen, also revolutions, voltaire, montesquieu, the thought of the enlightenment. these ingredients have given birth to freedoms, democracy and the rule of law. the european convention on human rights enshrines the dignity of every individual. it is a light that we must constantly maintain and amplify. more than seventy years ago, in 1946, winston churchill, speaking of the failure of the league of nations, said: "the failure of the league of nations is not because these principles are lacking, but because the states that founded it have abandoned these principles". we hold democracy and the rule of law as the apple of our eye. for this reason, belgium proposes the establishment of a peer review mechanism on the rule of law. in practical terms, the 27 member states would be subject to regular review by the other member states. it is a matter of each state looking at itself. ladies and gentlemen, we reject all forms of obscurantism, we want an open society based on knowledge. this is also why we want to promote and develop a european culture that respects our different identities and diversity. we must increase exchanges, go beyond academic cooperation, the erasmus programme must be expanded and extended. making choices, setting priorities. the negotiation of the next financial perspective will be an opportunity to define our vision for the next years of the european project. we must consolidate and modernise the common policies, cohesion and support for the agricultural policy. we also need to develop new policies: security, innovation, the digital economy, for example. we need to spend better, much better. the same meticulous rigor must be applied to the european budget as is rightly applied by the commission when it scrutinizes our national budgets. we will not accept a volume of additional effort that would jeopardise the economic stimulus measures. let's be realistic about this. this proposal is a useful starting point, and we shall analyse the proposals in detail. there is no doubt that these negotiations will be bitter and intense. ladies and gentlemen, i now come to the second question. any business that is to be successful requires a proper method. i do not think that the revision of the treaties is necessary in the short or medium term. i think that in the short or medium term it would be counterproductive. we must concentrate all our energies on meeting the requirements i have just mentioned. the treaties provide sufficient flexibility to make our response more effective in each of our states. we are faced with economic, social and political realities which are sometimes very different. the deepening of the euro area has revealed a number of realities, sometimes abruptly, on migration issues. i believe deeply in the virtues of truth. i believe in the virtues of negotiation. we have to avoid the unsaid, avoid the taboo. a better understanding of each other is essential to forge decisions with a broad base. we must move forward as 27 because our unity is our strength, but not unity at the cost of stagnation because stagnation is the guarantee of going backwards, of regressing. i was one of the first to advocate a multi-speed europe, not to divide, but on the contrary to put a turbo in our decisions. the major breakthroughs have often been the result of a vanguard: the eurozone, the schengen area. europe at several speeds is not europe by the map. when you join a club, you share the benefits, but you also assume the responsibilities and the constraints. let us therefore allow those who wish to do so to do so without forcing those who do not want to or who need more time. i would like to say very frankly in this house how much i am one of those who regret the hypocrisy of those who systematically turn europe into a scapegoat, without ever having the courage to highlight its results. we must mobilize our citizens. we must avoid closed-door debates. we have to be open to real life. the younger generation must be at the heart of our concerns. the young are our hope, our strength. their vitality, their impertinence, their creativity must be encouraged and i sincerely hope that they will take their place, that they will occupy all the space, in the framework of the initiatives of citizens' conventions. ladies and gentlemen, the european union is a unique project in the history of mankind. it is an imperfect work, it is a continually unfinished work. it is above all a promise, a promise for a better world. a better world based on the requirements of prosperity, security and basic values. putting our public finances in order, undertaking economic and social reforms, taking measures for security, promoting peace are battles of every moment in the service of the european ideal, in the service of the european citizens. we need to promote more the culture of results, to push back the technocracy. we must unlock the potential of our continent, the innovation of our researchers, the creativity of our entrepreneurs, the dynamism of our start-ups and the enthusiasm of our universities. they are formidable weapons in the service of an optimistic and entirely future-oriented project. ladies and gentlemen, sixty years ago, visionary statesmen, the founding fathers jean monnet and robert schuman, chose to lay the foundation stones of a project of reconciliation, peace and prosperity. it took courage, optimism and confidence. later, on the ruins of the berlin wall, the generation led by helmut kohl and françois mitterrand or jacques delors decided to seal a solid alliance. it laid the foundations for the euro area, opened up the schengen area with tangible progress for our citizens and it took courage, optimism and confidence. our political and civic generation now holds in its hands the future of the european dream. after the founding fathers, after the generation of builders, it is up to us to be the architects of our common destiny. it is our responsibility - and this is our conviction - to give new impetus. it is now up to us to implement this promise, this idea that is based on intangible values that we cherish: freedom, dignity, responsibility. it is now up to us to show courage, optimism and confidence. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
president of the commission. mr president, mr prime minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, belgium is very fortunate to have as before a prime minister who is committed to the european cause. if i could say the same about all the prime ministers, we would be in a much better position than we are. i watch prime minister michel when he is in the european council, i listen to him when we are alone, where important things can be said more easily, and i am always impressed first by his knowledge and his mastery of the files and then by his european convictions which take him far, and which take belgium far in this continental logic to which it has subscribed since 1952 without losing its footing. but beyond the person of my friend charles michel, i would like to pay tribute to belgium. belgium, which, together with strasbourg and luxembourg, hosts the european institutions and welcomes us, the commission and parliament, can say the same about itself with great generosity, especially the people of brussels. this generosity impresses me on a daily basis, we are surrounded by brussels tenderness and we love living in brussels. (applause) i would like to thank i hope that the belgian authorities will show the same generosity when it comes to granting belgian nationality to british civil servants here in brussels. they deserve it. as i know that the prime minister is sometimes overwhelmingly generous, i am sure and certain that he will take our wishes and remarks into account. it is towards brussels that all european aspirations converge, the noblest of european aspirations, and so i am pleased to see that in belgium the debate on europe is progressing. the commission organises citizen dialogues just over 650 so far , i myself have participated in several citizen dialogues in dutch, french and german-speaking belgium, and i know the interest that european citizens have in the european thing and i can only encourage the belgian government and the regional governments to continue to do what needs to be done. i had the opportunity to speak before the house of representatives. next week i will be speaking to the flemish parliament and the walloon parliament and will therefore have a busy belgian week which warms my heart in advance. i would also like to say how pleased i am to see belgium taking part in the investment plan, which was once called the juncker plan. belgium has so far managed to mobilise between 6, 7 and 8 billion in investments in the north and south of the kingdom, so i am very satisfied with the belgian response to the european investment plan. i have of course noted the 'friendly' remarks, made with great restraint by the prime minister, on the budget proposal i presented to you yesterday. every convinced european will see, by analysing, examining and examining in detail the commission's intelligent and wise proposals, that this is a budget, a financial framework which obviously does not break the sources of growth, but on the contrary turns the sources which exist in the various countries into a source of employment and growth. i take for example the 20 billion we want to spend on structural reforms, or the 30 billion that will be allocated to be able to deal with asymmetric shocks from within or outside, if necessary. it is therefore a budget which obviously does not deserve the spontaneous applause of the belgian government, but a reflection which will enable it not to say no to this budget. in fact, i would like you to say yes right away, but we will have to examine in detail the merits of the proposals that are being made. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this did not surprise me and i would like to see us able to count on belgium's strong support from now on, as we did yesterday and as we do today. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, belgium is at the heart of europe – this is the message that welcomes people at brussels airport. it is at the heart of europe, but a big ambition i have to say. i thank you for your contribution today about the ‘future of europe’ discussion. the idea of the discussion is not to talk about the headlines of today’s newspapers. the idea of this discussion is to talk about the fundamentals of our union, of our project. today i want to focus on the foundation of the state structure. europe is not only built on strong nations; europe is rooted in every region. and there i think belgium is a perfect example for this. regions are our homes. we talk a lot about identity when we talk about europe. regions are the place where we take our first steps in the world, where we grow up, where we define and shape our personalities. our identities are not based simply on national thinking and culture; the european identity is much more than that. the european identity begins in our schools; during a chat at the usual bar; passing the street in our town at home. europe is really deeply rooted in our regions. without regions, europe would be homeless. it is about feelings and about community which we can learn in the regions. it is about participation and responsibility which we can learn in our regions. without a community, without a region, europe falls apart. it is precisely the combination of regional diversity that makes europe unique in the world. but the relationship between europe and its regions is a two-way love affair. thanks to the regions, europe is grounded, but thanks to europe, regions can take off. i want to give you a few examples. when we speak about the budget of the eu, after the presentation of jean-claude juncker’s proposal for the next multiannual financial framework (mff), we see absolutely clearly that we spend a lot of money in the development of our regions. the european regional development fund is a key element for our policy in regard to the regions. we don’t want simply to preserve the regions, to keep them still as some sort of history museum, as populists probably would do; we want regions to have a brighter future. we want to have competition between regions, and we want to invest in human capital and innovation, infrastructure and quality of the institutions. a second example: europe means taking pride in our cultural roots. in a globalised world it is more needed than ever before to do this. only with europe we can preserve our regional identities. a third element: europe means moving regions from the corner to the centre. most regional potentials would go to waste without connections in the european union. europe creates a net of regions that can develop. in fact, some of the most economically-advanced regions in europe are on the national borders. think, for example, of the rhône-alps region, lombardi, lower silesia, or for example my home region, bavaria. we can see that many regions have only a real chance thanks to europe. europe means to live in safe regions. how else could individual regions deal with the threats of terrorism or the external problems with china and russia. so europe shields the regions from a more and more insecure world. i want to add another aspect when we talk about regions. i want to talk about the regional egoism which we see from time to time in europe. one thing is clear: regional identity is not an excuse for regional egoism. if a region leaves its member states, it leaves the european union. europe is about sticking together for a better future, and that also applies when it comes to being part of a member state. i know some bureaucrats would say that we can only be efficient if we do more centralisation. some business leaders would say we would have much more economic success if we do centralisation. i say europe is built on diversity and not on monotony. everything that can be done better or just as well at local, regional and national level must be done at the lowest level possible. that’s why i ask for a competence check, to do again an initiative on checking the competences – the distribution of competences – between the regions. mr prime minister, i listened very carefully to your speech. an additional aspect is if we talk about subsidiarity, it is in order to take over responsibility, because when the member states are deciding – mainly unanimously in the council – in favour of european legislation, then they cannot complain at home that europe was deciding on these issues. so both things are important. let’s keep the power of the regions. for example, we fought here in parliament to ensure that not big companies have the say about who provides the drinking water for the people when the local level is providing. this was one of the battles which we fought here in the european parliament. finally, let’s put the region in the heart of european democracy. staying close to our citizens means staying close to our region, and that is why we, as parliamentarians, must stick to our homes, our constituency and forget about abstract ideas like we discussed on the transnational list. i am a proud bavarian. my nation is germany and i am a european believer. these three elements belong together. europe has no future if it doesn’t start from its roots. so let’s keep regions in the heart of europe. (applause)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the european union is a great example of this. i would also like to extend a very warm welcome to you on behalf of my group to this debate, which is a debate on the future of the european union and has been so up to now. i would like to make it clear at the outset that brussels and belgium have in fact been the gateways to europe for me. i am one of those - at least of those who are sitting in the front row and answering in the first round - who came to europe from an eastern european perspective and understood that europe does not end at the former borders, but that we can learn, we must learn, that different historical experiences, traditions and also cultural understanding belong together, and that the eu, that europe cannot live without this diversity. we must and will continue to do so. it is interesting to me that - and i am a little sick of this debate - we are not really succeeding in bringing together the experience and expectations that we have about the european union from these different perspectives. we are witnessing today - and this is not the first time - and it is very justified, and i take note of this very easily - that many belgian members of parliament are of course discussing with you from a strictly european point of view. i'm all right. i've noticed that others are not very active here. my group suffers from the fact that we do not have a belgian member of parliament. i promise you, it will be different with the next election. the next time you come to the european parliament, if you are still a minister or prime minister, you will surely hear one of the belgian members from the left here. i am glad to be able to speak today from the point of view of people who have come here, who have high expectations of the european union - and still have - and who want to go further, but who are dissatisfied, dissatisfied with the current state of development of the union and with what we are experiencing on a daily basis, and i would have liked you to have addressed these contradictions much more strongly. it cannot be overlooked that we have regions within the european union where the concept of social deprivation is already necessary. we have a presidency through bulgaria. i do not know who, outside of the official meetings with the institutions, with the representatives of the bulgarian government, has been in bulgaria in recent months and has had to take note of the fact that it is not just bulgaria, but many other regions in other countries as well, that we have a profound difference between the expectations of the union, between the daily life that people in the union lead, that the divisions are growing. we have to deal with that. and it is not enough for me, mr prime minister, to say that we have achieved a great deal, that we have emerged from the most severe crises, that we are moving forward, that we are committed to this, that we are going to invest more and do this. that's not enough! i want to hear a very clear promise from all the heads of government who are here: what will be done to get us out of this situation, and is there really this added value for each individual? you spoke quite rightly about the importance of freedom, justice in particular, and freedom cannot exist without individual freedom for each individual. the right to political freedom is as much a part of the right to social rights as the right to have rights. but it doesn't have to be separated, it has to be joined. that is my claim, and i would like to hear from every single head of government here: what are you doing to enforce that? i have learned from mr juncker that you can also greet heads of government in a very subtle way, by meeting them in the council and patting them on the back and saying: my favourite dictator is here now. but that's practically one side of the coin, so we haven't solved the problem. i do not expect you to do that, but i would like to know what you are doing in the council to persuade mr orbán and others, for example, to accept the shared responsibility you have mentioned, to accept it also in relation to the refugee problem, the rule of law, the independence of the courts and the media. and what are you doing on the other hand to develop concrete ideas, for example, that we can come out of what we are experiencing at the moment? the fact that it is always said that the treaties prevent us from taking on shared social responsibility and solidarity. i'd like to know. they say the contracts are not open, that in the short term it's counterproductive. yes, please, how then? we have seen - and this is my view and the view of many colleagues in my group - that from one treaty to another, the eu's options for shaping the future have diminished. they've shrunk, but we have to reopen them. we must make it open, make it possible for social responsibility and solidarity to be shared, because we cannot allow regions of social deprivation to exist in the middle of the european union. without basic social rights, people will not engage. they won't stand up for their freedoms either. they say to themselves: i don't care who is running the government in bulgaria now. the ones before, the ones now. nobody cares about us. we are allowing ourselves to exclude some people from the union because they do not meet the requirements of the free movement regulations. that is the kind of people we must turn to. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. this can't be happening!
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, as the epp, we are deeply saddened about the loss of nicole fontaine. my most sincere condolences go first of all to her family and friends. the epp family lost one of its greatest members, and we lost also a true friend who was by our side in this house for almost 23 years. throughout her career, nicole fontaine was very active in education policies. she knew that our societies need values, and she knew the key to values is education. this is a fundamental idea of christian democracy. nicole fontaine was a great christian democrat. and nicole fontaine was a convinced european. she was the epp group’s first woman to become president of the european parliament, and she was such a strong woman. just recently, nicole fontaine called upon us to relaunch europe. she told us to turn europe once again into a project that the people can dream of. let us take up this call of nicole fontaine in memory of a great christian democrat, in memory of a strong woman, and in memory of a convinced european. (applause)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the reason why we would like to propose a resolution is very simple: on 1 june, there will be some sort of decision about whether tariffs will be applied to eu products, and the commission is already in negotiation with the us side about that, but as with every trade negotiation, it is really important that parliament takes a decision and does not just hold a debate. debates are very important, but parliament must also make clear what its position is on the matter: what we want the commission to do and what we don’t want the commission to do, or else we don’t have any voice at all as the european parliament. therefore, we would like to propose a resolution and we hope that we can count on your support.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i think it's important that we agree on the withdrawal of the united states from the nuclear deal with iran. looking at the whole picture, it is clear that withdrawing from the eu will also increase the risk of war in the region. i think it is important that we come to an understanding as a parliament. there is another point to be made here: at the same time, we are also witnessing a crisis of confidence in international treaties, which we as the eu have helped to establish - treaties that are simply abandoned, as the american president is doing, and thus contribute to escalation rather than de-escalation. i 'll be honest with you . we therefore urge that this be discussed now, because there is real hope in iran that this agreement will also bring about change, that it will open up society. and those who are now being hit by the withdrawal of the united states from this agreement are precisely those who have been holding out hope. we think it's important to talk now, to agree on what measures we're taking to save the deal, to do something here, and not to let those in iran who have bet on it, practically hang hang again, it wouldn't be the first time. we also ask for this debate, whether or not mrs mogherini can be present at this time. the debate is necessary and we will not have spoken about iran for the last time when it comes to concrete measures. so we're really asking you very kindly. it is important that we as a parliament set this sign.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not as you have just said, this is a statement by the council and the commission on the excessive use of force against refugees and migrants in the context of the mafda case. to remind colleagues of this again: mafda is a two-year-old girl from the kurdish part of iraq who was recently shot dead during a highway chase in belgium. although the investigation is still ongoing, the prosecution has made it clear that it is clear that the girl died from a police bullet and that no weapons were found in the van that was being chased. i am aware, of course, that this is a question that must be settled in belgium. on the other hand, the treatment of the so-called "transmigrants" in particular shows that the issues go much further. for us, on the one hand, the question is: how can a car be pursued for 70 kilometres and then be shot at, when it is clear that there are refugees inside, fearing for their lives? secondly, we are concerned with the question of how so-called 'transmigrants' are treated in general. and this is ultimately a consequence of the dublin regulation. we have here in parliament voted in favour of reform by a clear majority. we need to have this debate again to get this started and to make it clear that this is exactly what can happen if we do not finally create clear conditions here. and we point out that the repressive asylum policy is reinforcing the trafficking gangs that profit from this desperation, especially of course refugees and migrants. without legal and safe ways of applying for asylum, we will not live up to our responsibilities here in the european parliament either. we must enforce this right, that it is possible: whoever wants to apply for legal asylum must also be able to do so - he must be able to do so without running the risk of losing his life in the process.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not in fact, we adopted a very good regulation here last january, brussels iia. however, this regulation has a very serious drawback: it applies only to married couples. in our society, more and more people live in registered partnerships. and this is true for many, many people in the lgbti community in particular. this is simply intolerable, discrimination against many people. we want to know why the european commission has so far refused to give these people the same rights and to accept that discrimination is being done here, even though there is a very clear anti-discrimination provision in the treaties of the european union.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. first of all, i would like to thank you, also on behalf of the socialist group, for this third package. in fact, there are many, many forward-looking topics in it. that's very gratifying. if i may just briefly review the issues: in terms of road safety, i was particularly pleased that we can finally improve or resolve this blind spot in the detection of pedestrians and cyclists in the future. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank you very much, mr šefčovič, for this subject, also because you have considered the entire value chain from raw materials to recycling and have focused on research and development. my question is: how can parliament help you to do this? i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. the course is set there too, madam commissioner, in the right direction. what is crucial is that we now have to bring legislation in time and make sure that it works across the european union and is implemented at the same time so that this becomes a reality for everyone in the european union. i would like to thank the commission once again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner, i very much welcome the third part of your mobility package. it is for me - without wishing to weaken the others - the most important, because it is directly concerned with saving lives. the revision of the regulation on the safety of vehicles is of immense importance for road safety, which has been particularly close to my heart for many years. even 92% of all accidents are due to human error. the mandatory installation of safety-related driver assistance systems such as emergency brake assist with bicycle and pedestrian detection in all new vehicles or cornering assist in lorries and buses is a real necessity. we need these silent passengers who can not only warn us of dangerous situations, but can also intervene to prevent an accident or to minimize accidents. i want to do everything i can to ensure that we can pass legislation by the end of this parliamentary term. we are responsible for the 25 300 people killed and 135 000 seriously injured on europe's roads every year.
mr president, dear commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think it is great that three commissioners are here presenting this, which shows the importance of this package, and a fourth commissioner, mrs bieńkowska, even co-edited the press release. this is actually a great thing - it's coming quite late, that's true - but if we try, we can still get through this mobility package. you said that europe should be the world leader in automated and connected transport. we have the chance to do so, and that would be good for europe. we've tried this on subways, in platooning, for example, in the truck sector. it's more environmentally friendly, it's safer, especially for the dead, it's more efficient. it would also be good for people with reduced mobility. it would also be good for the rural areas, which are often forgotten, but which also have a chance. it's the last mile of the supply chain, probably very much changed in the future. the problem is, actually, that we should be open to technology, which is also better for emissions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. we really need to move forward with digitisation and the connecting europe facility. we need infrastructure for alternative energy and for digital things and also transport infrastructure. we must work decisively on this, and then we can also succeed in being leaders in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. transport is the only sector where emissions have increased by 28% since 1990! in industry, we have managed to reduce them by 35%. so transportation is eating up everything that's been achieved with billions of our taxpayers' money in the other sectors. and within transport, road transport accounts for 72%. that is why we need a shift, a shift away from it and a shift towards improvement. but we also have to look at where the electricity comes from. it doesn't come from the socket, but we have to look at the whole cycle - production, use and recycling. we have to go there. and above all, we need fair competition - we have already said this - because if we make rail transport, which is environmentally friendly, permanently expensive and road transport, which is harmful to the climate, permanently cheap, we will not achieve our objectives. without a change in mobility, we're not going to stop climate change. but we must stop it so that our children and their children have a perspective of living on this planet.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner vella, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. tomorrow parliament will vote on the trilogue on the multiannual plan for the north sea. we were pretty fast with four trilogies. that doesn't mean the negotiations were easy. the european parliament's position as voted last year required some adjustments and compromises. and yes, compromises can hurt. nevertheless, this second multiannual plan after the baltic sea management plan is a very important step at the right time. the north sea, as we all know, lies between great britain and the european mainland. the multiannual plan for the bottom fishing stocks in the north sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks is automatically linked to, or seen against the background of, brexit itself and its various negotiating phases. the rapporteur, mrs schleicher, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards relations with third countries, we have now incorporated in the plan that the guidelines of the common fisheries policy should take precedence in agreements on jointly fished stocks. the stocks shared with norway and, very soon, those shared with the united kingdom will also come into play. what i know at the moment about the british position on their proposed future fisheries policy, the united kingdom would like to stick to the msy principle and to value areas based on international and scientific advice. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. much now depends on the future shape of fisheries cooperation between the united kingdom and the european union. i would like to see a permanent solution to the problem of quotas and access rights for sustainable management. back to the subject of compromise: the fisheries exploiting bottom-fishing stocks in the north sea are so-called mixed fisheries. i must say that during the negotiations a number of new elements were added, or, i should say, mixed. finally, as in the baltic sea plan, we have included the so-called msy fupper ceiling. this is a real red cloth for some, a red line that has been crossed. environmental ngos have therefore called for a vote against this trilogue result. two groups have tabled amendments to this effect. i shall vote against these amendments tomorrow. yes, we had something different in the ep report in july 2017, and yes, i could live with a different result in this regard. but there are majorities, and these majorities, including the commission and the council, have been strong advocates of these ceilings. the risk of a north sea management plan not being agreed was very high. i could not answer for this to the fish or to the fishermen. the commission and the council have repeatedly raised the argument of so-called restricted species in this context. the integration of msy fupper would be essential to cushion effects for limited species. this argument was in my mind all the time in committee the other day when i was told during the workshop on the landing obligation and limited species that limited situations have not, in fact, occurred yet. i also have to give a clear answer as to how various instruments from the cfp's toolbox, such as selective measures, inter-species flexibility and so on, work. but let us return to the objectives of a multiannual plan as laid down in the basic regulation. these should be based on scientific, technical and economic expertise. a definition of best available scientific advice should not be accepted by the council or the commission in so far as it is available. why was and is a definition so important to parliament? the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the council seems to have a strong incentive to use the ceilings. there are three conditions for this - three conditions which we would like to see applied, if at all, only on the basis of the best available scientific advice. a clear reference or understanding of the expertise to be used is also essential in view of the fact that we only provide for the principle rather than defined numbers in the value ranges. the ranges may be adjusted regularly to take account of the best available scientific advice. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fishing opportunities available to it are not exceeded. we also had to compromise on the secondary species, since the notorious limited situations played a decisive role in this matter too. what's next in the plan: recreational fishing. the council has been hesitant for a long time to do so for reasons of control. the relevant passage of the plan states that where recreational fishing has a significant impact on fishing mortality, the council may take recreational fishing into account in the fishing opportunities and limit its fishing opportunities. so, there's some good in the plan. i regard a rejection of the plan as the absolutely wrong signal in the context of the brexit negotiations.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like first and foremost to thank the rapporteur, ulrike rodust, and also to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their dedicated work. the agreement that you have reached in the trilogues together with the council is a very good result, and i would like to thank you all for working tirelessly to ensure a solid, sustainable result that works in practice. i also want to thank the rapporteur for ensuring a timely adaptation ahead of the full implementation of the landing obligation. we have used the baltic sea plan as the blueprint for the north sea plan, but where improvements were necessary, the co-legislators wisely agreed to find new approaches. for example, by introducing flexibility through the concept of ranges, which allows us to quickly adapt, following the most up-to-date scientific advice to the benefit of stake-holders and also to the benefit of sustainable stocks. the north sea plan is very important, as it provides for reaching msy for the demersal fisheries in the sea basin, and it also paves the way for the next multiannual plans yet to come. let me highlight that the landing obligation enters fully into force in less than one year, and we are all aware of the challenges it entails for our fishing industry. the north sea plan contains a range of tools to help towards this transition, and i would like to call on all member states to use the flexibilities which exist in order to ensure smooth implementation. we need to ensure that fishermen have the tools to sustain sustainable fishing practices; for example, by adapting their gears so that they can alleviate choke situations in mixed demersal fisheries in a way that is in line with the cfp objectives. it is now for the stakeholders of the north sea to put these tools into practice and also to ensure tailor-made solutions to the specific challenges in the different fisheries of the north sea.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. thank you for your cooperation. twenty-one months of negotiations have come to an end and today we can say: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. for our fishermen we have simple and unbureaucratic rules, modelled on the baltic sea plan. sustainable fishing will continue to be possible in the future, in accordance with the latest scientific knowledge. and mrs rodust has just said that this plan now provides a good basis for further brexit negotiations. this is very important. unfortunately there is - and this has been raised - now by very one-sided environmental groups the call to vote against this plan. i find this call to be extremely negligent. we as the epp can agree with the outcome of the negotiations. there have been many compromises, but as a result we can now agree to this plan, and that is why we will agree to this plan. thank you for your cooperation.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. these plans are designed to the detriment of coastal fishing, small-scale fisheries and recreational fishing, in favour of industrial fishing. industrial fishing with its large-scale fleets uses fishing gear and trawls to drill the seabed to a depth of one metre. they mercilessly destroy everything that lives and grows there. in your text, mrs garcía pérez, you say: 'the plan will help to ensure a decent standard of living for people who depend on fishing.' but he does not say how many lives have already been destroyed. the coastal fisheries and their micro-enterprises have been around for centuries and are in harmony with marine life and nature. the fisheries sector, which is the basis of all these ports and coastal regions, has no future with such a design. that is why i reject this draft.
member of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, mr herbert dorfmann, for this report, which is the outcome of a very intensive debate that you have been having over the last number of months, pointing to the importance of the future of eu agriculture and the common agricultural policy (cap) as an enabling framework. i also want to complement mr dorfmann and all of the shadow rapporteurs and the membership of the committee on agriculture, and rural development (agri) for the efficiency with which they have gone about their work, culminating in what i hope will be a very strong endorsement of this report when you vote here on wednesday. there is much that we could say in detailed response to the report, not least at this evening’s debate, which comes in the same week that the commission, hopefully, is going to adopt and indeed publish the long-awaited legislative proposals on the future of the cap. i do not want to pre-empt those proposals, which the commission will publish; however, what i can say is that we have been following very carefully and listening very carefully to the views of the agri committee, to the views of mr dorfmann and the shadow rapporteurs in the context of this report. we have met regularly and frequently. when you see the commission’s proposals on publication, you will see very strong similarities between the content of this report and the recommendations contained in the proposals that will be published. the background against which all of us are operating is the budgetary one, which has been referred to by mr dorfmann. it is one in which one of the largest net contributors, the united kingdom, is leaving the european union. against this reality, the multiannual financial framework (mff) is set at a level of 1.11% of gross national income of the remaining eu27. the commission, which cannot run a deficit – like any member state – has to propose a budget in the context of this reality. we have proposed a budget of eur 365 billion for the 2021-2027 cap, which is a cut of less than 5%. the cut for direct payments is less than 4%. for rural development, the proposal is to rebalance eu and national support in the context of the co-financing rates. if member states, of course, choose to increase their level of co-funding, there is no reason why public support to rural areas cannot be maintained at current levels. alternatively, of course, if all member states agree by unanimity to provide more finance to the european union budget in various ways, then improvements to the agricultural funding can be made possible. a key feature of the commission’s proposals and one i have flagged clearly in the communication which was published on the future of food and farming in november is the new delivery model, and i want to thank mr dorfmann and the shadow rapporteurs and the agri committee for supporting this new initiative. it is a new relationship between the european union and member states. the motivation behind this delivery model is to take better account of eu diversity, to better target and simplify the support and to ensure performance-orientation and a result-oriented cap. at european union level we will maintain and define a strong and common framework to ensure the achievement of common objectives, and member states will make the detailed choices and operational definitions, in line with their needs and integrated into a single and streamlined cap strategic plan which will cover interventions in both pillars. an area of obvious common interest is our shared objective for a viable and resilient eu agriculture throughout europe. direct payments play a key role in this regard, and they must – and will – remain an essential part of the future common agricultural policy. we must also look at these payments through the lens of fairness and, in the context of the multiannual financial framework, the commission has made a number of important steps towards convergence between member states. for all member states with direct payments below 90% of the eu27 average, the gap between current level and 90% of that average will be closed by half over a six-year period. without prejudice to the precise contents of the forthcoming proposals, they will offer various possibilities to better target support towards the needs of our small and medium-sized farmers. these are the foundation of european union agriculture. these are our family farmers. as i think we can all agree, eu agriculture needs to better manage our natural resources, to limit our greenhouse gas emissions and to adapt to climate change. we have to bolster environmental care and climate action and contribute to the environmental and climate objectives of the european union, which are already agreed by this parliament. the cap will therefore have to reflect the higher levels of ambition and focus more on results, based on these objectives and the legislation that is already in force and the contribution that agriculture must make to these objectives. the current green architecture will be replaced by a new one that is based on the new delivery model, with environmental and climate objectives which will be set at european union level, not at member state level. in preparing their cap strategic plans, member states will take into account their local conditions and can devise a mixture of mandatory and voluntary measures in pillar 1 and pillar 2 that are appropriate to those conditions. there are a number of other areas identified in mr dorfmann’s report where the commission and the european parliament have similar views. support for young farmers should continue and be improved. attracting new farmers and facilitating generational renewal will be one of the main priorities of the cap post-2020. we will have the opportunity for a further exchange on this important matter later on this evening with mep caputo. innovation and knowledge-sharing is a key issue for the future cap, with benefits in terms of competitiveness, sustainability and simplification. we will continue to support farmers in areas where agriculture is constrained by specific conditions, for example in mountain areas, and the new delivery model will enable member states and regions to address these and other important issues in line with their needs within a strong and common european union framework. the commission will present its legal proposals for the cap shortly and i will be meeting parliament’s committee on 11 june to discuss these proposals in detail. in respect of the mff, i can only urge you to make every possible effort to conclude your work within the current parliamentary mandate, though i am under no illusions about the challenge that such a timetable presents. however, what you would be doing in doing so is providing security and certainty for our stakeholders, famers and our people living in rural areas, particularly our young farmers. you can be assured, of course, of my constructive cooperation and that of my services in trying to make this a reality. in conclusion, can i thank mr dorfmann and his colleagues for this report, which is an invaluable contribution to the work of reforming, modernising and simplifying our common agricultural policy.
the committee's opinion was drawn up in the light of the work done by the advisory committee on development. the commission is not i would also like to begin by thanking mr dorfmann and the shadow rapporteurs. i personally think it is a small step in the right direction, a small step. it's good that you're thinking about introducing the cap. it is right to put the degradation on the table. it is important to establish a conditionality that there is public money for public services. these things are right. but i have to say that i personally have lacked a little bit of courage to go beyond these things. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it should have been made clear that income support for farmers is actually a social benefit and is written on a completely different paper. i would like to mention one more point from the deve group's point of view: it was the question of whether or not to include another chapter to make clear the specific responsibility of european agricultural policy in the field of development policy. and i'm afraid that's not going to happen. i am very sorry about that, because our agricultural policy has an impact on africa, our agricultural policy on soy imports has an impact on brazil, our agricultural policy and our fisheries policy have an impact on whether there are movements of refugees on the other side of the world or not. and here, from the point of view of the deve group, from the point of view of the development assistance group, the report is unfortunately, unfortunately, not very far-reaching. it is a missed opportunity to make it clear that agricultural policy in europe is closely linked to movements of refugees in the world.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to thank mr herbert dorfmann and all the colleagues who have contributed to this report for their rapid and reliable work. the report is a first indication of the future of the common agricultural policy. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. my group and i personally, commissioner, are very sceptical about the possibility of the proposed proposals reducing bureaucracy. i am more concerned that the bureaucracy is only being shifted from the european to the national level. but we will look at your proposals and then we will see how we deal with those proposals. the aim of the common agricultural policy is to avoid distortions of competition and it is therefore necessary to equalize payments not only between member states but also within member states. i have tabled a motion with my colleagues to limit not only the payments per holding but also per hectare. i hope that we will find the conditions for a sound agricultural policy to be financed at european level in the future.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i too would like to thank the rapporteur very warmly. this report is a clear commitment to agriculture, forestry and food security in europe. we all agreed that sustainable development was necessary. but we need goals and guidelines, commissioner. the future strategic plans of the member states must not undermine the internal market and the competitive balance. we are in favour of a common sustainable agricultural policy with two pillars. the first objective must be to achieve administrative simplification for farmers and forestry workers and planning security. if there is to be a cap on large farms, it must be ensured that the money stays in the agricultural budget and benefits medium and small farms and young farmers. science, innovation and digitisation must also be available to small and mediumsized enterprises, and i am sure, commissioner, that there are many good points in our report that we can put into practice.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. four brief remarks: first, agricultural policy can deliver on time. i would like to thank the rapporteur again for the fact that we have managed to discuss the agricultural report in plenary today on time. secondly, we have embarked on the new so-called delivery system of the commissioner, which is the good news. commissioner, you know my opinion. i would ask you again, this is not just about relations between the commission and the member states. we must also take care of relations with the farmer, because the farmer is at the centre of our political interest. and there too, the de-bureaucratization really has to take place. thirdly, agricultural policy must be fairer and more comprehensible, especially for the taxpayer. capping, degression, overpayment for the first hectare something has to be done. but i think that the conditions in the member states are so different that we have to define the toolbox in brussels and then decide on the application in the member states.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not it is really very important and necessary to discuss the promotion of young farmers today, because there are three major problems with the existing support. the first - mr commissioner, mr caputo, you have both mentioned it - is access to land. that's the biggest hurdle for newcomers. and the existing support for young farmers does not address this problem at all. we really need a very firm strategy from the european union here. secondly, public money for public goods. this principle is completely ignored by the promotion of young farmers. it is not the farms which contribute most to the environment, to animal welfare, to landscape protection that are supported, but all of them, without distinction. and thirdly, we want to make agriculture a place of the future. that's what you need for a fair income for farm work. newcomers in particular are often the pioneers in organic farming, direct marketing, co-financing models, artisanal food production. and we should give these innovative projects specific support so that they are also economically viable. this is not reflected enough in the present report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. without young farmers there is no future for agriculture in europe. without young farmers, there is no future for rural europe. without young farmers, half a billion people in europe cannot be food secure. we are therefore well advised to set up programmes, both financial and social, to get young farmers ready to come back to work here. i find that the situation in europe is very different. in some member states there are more young farmers, in others fewer. that is why, commissioner, we have already extended the scope for member states in the omnibus procedure. i am also sceptical about the justification for the aid we have provided so far, namely a premium per hectare. the differences between the farms are too great. i will give two examples. a young farmer may take over a business from his parents, in which all the investments have been made, and another young farmer, whose father may have died prematurely and whose mother has kept the business afloat, must make huge investments in order to continue. that means that we must focus more on investment and not necessarily give a flat-rate subsidy so that young farmers are ready to take over farms here again.
mr president, thank you to molly scott cato. the environmental, climate and biodiversity challenges we are facing are so momentous and radical that we do, indeed, need the race to the top that you are talking about. it is a basic experience of human civilization that, at times, without radical innovation there is no survival. today is such a time. we need social and political creativity and we must battle firmly against old thinking and old habits that tend to block the emergence of new perspectives. this is why we pursue carbon divestment together with promoting green finance. while we cherish molly’s report and applaud the work of the commission, we also cherish the fact that a green finance leadership programme is presently being set up in china, led by academics from tsinghua university. this is the kind of competition that we should all savour. on this front, europe has an obligation to the whole world and in particular to future generations. let us not fall short.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the 2021-2027 multiannual financial framework and own resources (2018/2714 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, on 2 may, the commission tabled its long—awaited proposals for the future multiannual financial framework. they represent one of the most important files we will work on in the coming months. the file is considered a top priority by this presidency, working in close cooperation with the future austrian and romanian presidencies. as agreed in february, once all the sectoral proposals are available, the european council will return to the issue of the mff and the timeline for the negotiation. this discussion will take place at the june european council meeting. in the meantime, the presidency started working at full speed on the mff package. after a first political discussion at the level of ministers on 14 may, experts now meet every week to review the proposals in detail. but work doesn’t stop in the council. we are all very much aware that cooperation with parliament will be essential to concluding this file in a timely manner. for this reason, as soon as we receive the proposals from the commission, my prime minister wrote to president tajani to establish proper ways of communication. as you can see from the letter of prime minister borissov, the presidency and future presidencies are committed to keeping parliament informed about the progress in the council and to regular exchange of views between the two institutions. this will be key to making sure that we understand each other’s expectations and constraints. in that spirit, we have already met twice with parliament’s negotiating team. it was very important for us to get the process off to a good start. we look forward to more frank and fruitful exchanges with your representatives in june on the margins of the next general affairs council. before i conclude, i would like to add a word on the substance of the mff debate. the discussion will seem to be about money, but in fact it will be about shared priorities. behind the figures, the debate will be about our policy choices and where we expect the european union to act in the next seven years. it is already clear that we will have to find the right balance between the new priorities and the traditional policies. the policy choices will determine the structure, the size and the resources of the next financial framework. the presidency is fully committed to giving a dynamic start to the examination and the discussion of the proposals. expectations are high for this multiannual financial framework. this is about the future of europe. but challenges are equally high, and let us not forget the need to achieve unanimity in the council. the first step will be to understand what the commission proposals really mean. for that, we need clear information from the commission. i gather that there were questions in parliament about the figures presented by the commission. we had similar questions, and i am confident that today commissioner oettinger will provide us with further information on it.
member of the commission. mr president, honourable members of the council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, after having made our proposal on 2 may for the budgetary framework for the next decade, we shall be finalising the full set of sectoral implementing rules in the college from today until 14 june and then report back to you. i can therefore confirm today that on 14 june we will have all the sectoral regulatory proposals on the table in your house and in the council. the commission is calling for the final vote on the cohesion policy package today and on the large agricultural policy package later this week. since 2 may, if you take the priorities, the programmes and the funding, there has been a lot of criticism. some say the 1.114 is too low, others say it's too high. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have proposed to double erasmus+. some say a tripling would be appropriate. we are increasing research projects and digital innovation projects by up to 50% - some say that is far too little. i have also looked at the response in many member states. i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to help me, because i need unanimity in the council at the end, and also to help sweden, denmark, perhaps finland, the netherlands, austria, where the commission's proposal is considered too high in the area of commitments at 1,114%. because these are partly the countries in which your constituencies are. the council has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the commission's proposals. 1.3%, you say, the parliament. the commission's proposal is 1.114%. to put it bluntly, i actually think both are moderate. let me be very clear: our european citizens earn 100 euros by their own labour and investment. of this, we deduct 50 eur from them through taxes, fees and contributions - this is the state's share in the european average. of the 50 euros, 1 euro is currently going to europe and 49 euros are staying in paris, warsaw, berlin, rome, stuttgart, linz, rural areas and social systems. one euro in 50 is worth europe to us. that is why i say that neither 1.3 nor 1.114 breaks the fabric of the levels of europe - the european level, the national level, the regional level, the local level, the social level. however, we must see that we - i am quite sure - have no chance with 1.3 in the council. secondly, in your report of march you called for many of the things that are in our draft: new priorities, defence, migration, border control, increased investment in research, innovation, erasmus+. we have done just that with our proposal. but you say: no cuts in the cap and in cohesion. i tell you frankly, when a large net contributor -- when the large uk economy -- goes, it's a game changer. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we therefore believe that moderate cuts are necessary in the two main programmes, cohesion and agriculture, without damaging the programmes. i believe that everything else is unrealistic. now, we've had an intense exchange over the last few weeks about how to get to these numbers. first, the absolute numbers are uncontroversial. the annual proposed investments in euro and cent for the financial years 2014 to 2020 and for the next mff are fixed without any dispute. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. what's our calculation? we took the mff 2014 to 2020, and deducted for each programme what goes to the uk in those years research projects with oxford, cambridge and london, pillar two: cap for rural areas, direct payments to farmers in the uk; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. and so we came up with a virtual eu27 budget framework for 2014 to 2020. because the farmers in austria, poland and germany cannot expect to get more, that the money that used to go to the uk now goes to them. we have not cut back on some of the programmes. we didn't cut it with galileo. because the investment in satellite navigation technology is the same for 27 countries as it is for 28 countries. galileo is getting more expensive, but it remains important so no cut here. then we compared the last year of this mff-2020 and the first year of the next mff. because that's what our partners feel and that's what people feel. what are we paying the farmer in 2020 in direct payments per hectare? and what can you pay in the year after? and here, in 2020 and then in 2021, we're coming to cuts in agricultural policy of exactly 4.6%. as the proposal if adopted this week provides for slightly larger cuts in the second pillar and smaller cuts in the first pillar direct payments , but proposes some more flexibility for our member states between the two pillars, we arrive at cuts in direct payments in 2021 of exactly -3.9% compared to 2020. the cohesion programme is now about the implementing rules which are being discussed today in the commission. there is a so-called berlin model, which dates back to 1999. this has been updated and modernised in each of the three mff consultations. we're sticking to it. we wanted to ensure that things continue to be fair, that there are no too big winners and too big losers in cohesion policy. but one thing is certain: the new member states in particular have made good use of cohesion policy in the years 2005 to date, have increased their gdp per capita significantly, and are approaching the average. countries such as slovakia, the baltic states and poland will receive less money for cohesion policy in our mff proposal because they have become more competitive, because they have increased their economic output. others, such as italy, which have been in stagnation for longer in recent years, are getting more money. we need a formula for all this which still carries within it the idea of solidarity and the empowerment of the weak. i firmly believe that in the course of the next mff the new member states will exceed the european average gdp per capita and may therefore indirectly become so-called net payers. the cohesion policy has thus, in my view, proved its success. they suggest that we abolish the rebates. we will do that, but in stages. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. that brings me to the crucial final point. the payments by the member states are increased by more than 30% in nominal terms. why would you do that? if you make a budget for 2019 and compare it to 2018, you have growth rates of 2%, of 3% nobody cares. but if you compare the first year of this mff, 2014, to the last year of the next mff, 2027, you have 14 years of rising salaries for research, rising costs for steel to build gas pipelines, rising construction costs for construction, for roads, railways and buildings, rising salaries for commissioners and meps. the disadvantage of a seven-year budgetary framework is therefore that the figures are automatically much higher in nominal terms not in real terms. seven years is seven years of inflation. makes 11 12 % nominal increase without the real increase in purchasing power. seven years of gnp growth is +16%. this automatically brings us to a nominal increase of 27 to 28% in the next mff to the present one, without any real increase in purchasing power. in other words, +27% is automatically the basic requirement if the budgetary framework of europe is not to lose its importance. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is the third reason for a higher mfr. the fourth reason is the absence of rebates, which is added for some member states. and the fifth reason is new tasks. we propose to invest over 13 billion in defence, to allocate much more for migration, to increase frontex to 10,000 staff for border protection and control. and all these reasons - inflation, gdp growth, no more rebates, the brexit gap and new tasks - mean that the next budgetary framework will rise in nominal terms - not in real terms - by at least 30% for the member states, and by more than 40% for some. so far a few words of clarification. i am grateful to the house for the intensive work that you have done on this subject, mr rapporteur and other members of the committee on budgets, in all the committees. because i want to tell you: farmers and research, mayors and regions, but also our partners in development aid want to have clarity as soon as possible. i therefore remain committed to the ambitious timetable from now until easter next year, when this parliament completes its work. the european parliament's goodwill - it is given - and the european council's goodwill will give us a chance to show in march next year that the british are leaving and that europe is showing its will and ability to act on a highly complex issue. i therefore ask you to help us to demonstrate this sign of good governance, of european capacity for action, by the example of the multiannual financial framework from now until march next year.
i am not going to go into detail. we've been behind schedule for a while. i therefore ask for your understanding that if someone does not respect the speaking time, i will not allow a blue card for the speaker in question.
i am not sure that this is the case. that's not how the game works. interlocutory questions or queries should be addressed to the speaker. if you want to ask the commissioner questions, it is a different format. we have the spontaneous word exchange procedure.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the european parliament has called for a 30% increase in the budget, the commission for 11%. it's not an end in itself, but we did it because we know we have bigger things to do. the commission has already mentioned a number of things: climate policy, the fight against unemployment, especially youth unemployment, internal and external security, more for education, social inclusion and the stabilisation of africa so that not so many people have to go on the move. so we are facing big challenges. that's why we need more money, not because we're in love with a higher budget. the decisive question in the european council will now be: will you be able to identify the common european interest in all national interests? otherwise there will be no ambitious mff, and we need it if we are to play a responsible role as the european union in the global world of the 21st century. that is why we need the digital tax. it is clear from the zuckerberg hearing that we need to regulate digital monopolies appropriately, including the digital tax.
since there has been a slight misunderstanding, i will explain it again: if i cut someone off because he has spoken too long, i will not give him the opportunity to get a blue card. and i will not allow any blue cards within the same group. that is why mrs thomas is next.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is expected to be over one trillion euros over seven years. and you think that this is the way to solve the political problems into which you have maneuvered the commission and this european union in particular. the donor countries are fighting back, except germany. there, they are excited to be able to send even more money to europe, to brussels. the eastern and southern europeans - we heard that today - are demanding more money, more cohesion policy. and then the so-called liberals turn it all around. mr. arthuis shot the bird down today. liberal is now demanding even more government money for all the problems of this world. mr arthuis, liberalism used to be that you left solutions to the economy, to the people, and did not believe that the state could solve everything better. you will have problems like in italy, where you prevented an economy minister who was a minister in the 1990s from... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. the commission's draft budget is a slap in the face to the european taxpayer. the eu loses a net contributor to the uk, which accounts for about 14% of the current eu budget. this drastic loss on the revenue side does not seem to interest the majority here. instead of cutting the eu budget by at least the amount that the british will no longer finance, you are even calling for an increase of the budget by almost 18% over the current multiannual financial framework. the eu is already fattening up while the taxpayers are being put on a diet. this is blatant fiscal kleptocracy without any measure, it is also a european political harakiri. you still don't understand what you're doing with your politics: you're strengthening the forces of flight with your megalomania. the british will soon be gone, italy will reject this budget, and you will simply not learn anything.
mr president, commissioner oettinger and minister panayotova, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already given sufficient attention to the question of whether the figures which the commission has presented to us are clear or not. i should like to concentrate in my brief speech on the communication from the council. i'm not going to let you go. it is a pleasure to see a former colleague here on the council benches, and the announcement that the council is working, but i can only say, with some irony, thank you very much for this information. where are the lines of conflict in the council? i would like to know how the council envisages financing the next mff, if it is right to repeatedly send us requests for new eu contributions after its meetings. what are the council's proposals on how to provide the money for this? what is the position of the member states on the european commission's own resources proposal? this is another important question that we are concerned about. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. madam minister, this is the place of the european public. you can see from this debate that this parliament is struggling with the questions of the future. we hear you say that the council is working. i would be glad if the council would be more involved in this debate than with this information.
mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council! thank you, thank you. i think it is a difficult morning because it is not about the budget, not about the prospects for the eu, but everyone here is making his own soup: there is an election campaign in italy and the anti-europeans are saying what they always say. i wondered what the commission and the council would take away from this debate and i would like to return to a few points. firstly, i find the mff proposal to be important because it involves new tasks. we're able to really change old tasks, but not dramatically, and allow new tasks to open the door. i think that is very important and i would like to thank you very much for that. i think it is great that the old demand of parliament for the integration of the development fund has finally been fulfilled. and i think it is great that the commission has put forward a draft regulation to protect the eu budget in the event of rule of law problems in the member states. this is a milestone that really moves us forward. and unfortunately, unfortunately, no one has underlined this here yet. i think we have some good material on the table and we can do something with it.
mr president, commissioner, madam president of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i was certainly the first agricultural politician in this house to offer, in a letter to the president of the european union, to give up a few billion in agricultural money if the eu's agricultural policy were to be seriously de-bureaucratised. unfortunately, the proposal has not been taken up. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as regards the share of agriculture in the eu budget, let me make one thing clear: if all public money in europe were billed as the agricultural sector is billed through brussels, then the share of agriculture would be 1%. dear günther, i ask you to treat the farming here fairly, and i'm sure you will.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. before we assess the outcome of the trilogue, we should put ourselves in the position of workers in the eu. imagine you've spent years training, imagine you're doing a good job, but your salary is stagnant. you're gonna need more money because your rent's gone up. imagine, then, that you are sitting with your boss in the salary negotiation, and he says to you: i will not pay you more, and in case of doubt, i will just get posted workers who will do it for a third less. or imagine that you work on a construction site, you have the same education as your female colleagues, you work as hard as they do, but you still get paid a third less. this can't be happening! is it any wonder that the european union is in a state of crisis? is it any wonder that in the uk, in the regions where the negative effects of globalisation are felt most, the vote for brexit was the strongest? we have made it far too easy to play off workers in recent years. we have made it far too easy for the right to foment hatred and resentment. and, damn it, it is our job as legislators in the european union to finally put a stop to it! that is why we need good and fair minimum standards, and this result is a breakthrough in this area. the european union needs a more social face, and this is so badly needed not just for posted workers but for all workers in the european union. we need a social european labour market. and today we are taking an important step in that direction.
i have to say, madam president, intra-european migration is much higher than all forecasts assumed. labour migration has put considerable pressure on labour markets. the swiss initiative against mass immigration or brexit were direct reactions of citizens to what they perceived as too high a level of migration. this posting directive is intended to curb labour migration. it is dishonest, because it does not address the central problem, but instead creates an excess of regulations and rules that are not practical for businesses. some of the parts are even contrary to existing laws: the rome i regulation, which is the existing law, is simply being countered by another law. other parts seek to extend the eu's powers to social concerns, in contravention of article 9 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the aim here is to build european law on the political declaration of intent pillar of social rights . this law will create another overregulation from brussels.
i have to say, madam president, the trilogue compromise contains very ambitious proposals. the positive side is that both wage dumping and social dumping are almost impossible. germany is one of the largest exporters. our companies are hardly suspected of dumping. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european parliament. firstly, we had asked for the posting to be possible for 24 months. now only 12 months are fixed, with a six-month extension. secondly, rather than a longer transitional period to allow actors to prepare well changes should be implemented in two years. and thirdly, the consequences of short business trips are unclear. practitioners complain of legal uncertainty and more bureaucracy, the identification of different reporting obligations, the compilation of detailed documents for each delegate. i would have liked to see short business trips completely excluded, so i shall abstain.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. after more than two years, we are now on the finish line. equal pay for equal work in the same place is a good start to further approximation of living conditions in europe. the new version provides for greater legal certainty and respects not only collective agreements but also, and above all, people. it protects posted workers, but also small and mediumsized enterprises, from wage dumping and unfair competition. and, dear thomas mann, a business trip - every trainee, every works council in germany knows this - is not a posting and never will be a posting. i think the commission has already told you that. the old law was designed to make business trips not missions, and the new one remains the same. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we want a social single market which no longer looks solely at the economy but at people.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. hamas is calling for storming the israeli border and killing israelis. as a consequence, israel shot dead 62 perpetrators of violence on 14 may. 50 of them have been identified as terrorists. while trump and netanyahu are acting and creating realities, you are repeating your phrases here every quarter. jerusalem is the capital of israel. there will be no two-state solution - that's a reality. and the sooner people understand that this is the reality, the sooner the deaths will stop, the sooner hamas will stop, in the sense that you have been saying for decades, unfortunately, that it can pull people over their heads for its purposes. ladies and gentlemen, you must recognize the realities of the situation. everything else is european heroism, at least for the last 50 years. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. so i can tell you that for example the federal republic of germany, when germany was still a divided state, had the permanent representation in east berlin. east berlin was subject to the four power status, quite similar to what we have in jerusalem today. in this respect, germany has always taken a very pragmatic position, at least in its own case. i wish that for israel too. and i think israel is very interested in a solution, above all: israel wants to live. the palestinians, and i say particularly hamas you have to limit that want to kill israelis first and foremost.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. last week i was in israel, visiting the knesset and ngos, among other things. the escalation in and around gaza, as well as the settlement policy, is viewed critically within israel. the return march of palestinians is understandable to some, provocative to others. but in any case, it's no reason to use deadly ammunition against angry protesters and journalists. netanyahu should face an independent investigation into the escalation in gaza. this would also make hamas's responsibility public. the head of the israeli joint list group told me last week that internal israeli conflicts cannot be solved from outside, that the israeli opposition is needed. the us embassy move was counterproductive. it is moving further and further away from the urgent two-state solution. we must also strengthen the peaceful, critical and oppositional israelis, so that we can give greater chances to guarantee human rights in the region. israel is not our enemy, but the netanyahu government.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i have been in lebanon for the past few weeks, i returned from iran last week, and i find it scandalous that terrorism is being discussed here and that it is being tolerated by individual organizations. because terrorism always has a cause, and that cause is 70 years old. imagine: there are three generations of palestinians living in the camps today, all of whom have seen how they were driven from their homes, how bulldozers demolished their homes, how israeli settlements were built there. they saw their fathers not coming back from demonstrations, their mothers, their brothers, their sisters. and then when they start to fight back and fight for freedom for their people, they're disqualified as terrorists here. the same applies to the attacks by the israeli air force on peaceful settlements and camps.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, it has been a very fruitful exchange, and i thank the honourable members in the european parliament for their interventions. from the discussion, i can conclude that we all have a common interest in promoting peace and dialogue for sustainable development for the benefit of, and in respect of, the will of all nicaraguans. what is at stake is not only the stability of the country, but also the stability of the central american region. as the european union, we have historic ties with this region: not only political and economic ties, but also cultural ties. we will continue to follow the situation closely and make sure that our political capital and all available instruments – all available european instruments – can be used to support nicaragua at this very difficult juncture for the nicaraguan people. i would like to close this discussion by signalling once again my personal appreciation of the european parliament’s role in keeping this important issue on the agenda. as you already underlined, the only way is to focus on this issue and to prevent it from becoming a forgotten crisis.
in accordance with rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure, seven motions for resolutions have been tabled. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 31 may 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on us tariffs in the steel and aluminium sectors and the eu's reaction (2018/2697 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, our trade and investment relationship with the us is becoming increasingly complex and it will require careful political management in the weeks ahead. we are very concerned from the commission side about the us unilateral initiatives that are undermining the multilateral trading system. the temporary exemption for the eu from us measures on steel and aluminium runs until 31 may. in the absence of a new decision by the president of the united states, tariffs of 25% for steel and 10% for aluminium will apply to eu exports as from 1 june. that is on friday. i have stayed in regular contact with the us secretary of commerce, secretary ross. we have spoken numerous times over the phone and we will meet in paris later this week – tomorrow, in fact – on the margins of the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd) ministerial council meeting. this will be an important moment, but it is clear that the final decision will be made by president trump himself. the commission has continued to argue for a full, permanent and unconditional exemption from these tariffs while the us has sought to use the threat of trade restrictions as leverage to obtain not only a cap on future eu exports on steel and aluminium but also assurances on the content and goals of a future bilateral agenda to address market access irritants. as you know, in their meeting in sofia last week, eu leaders gave clear guidance saying that if there was an unlimited exemption for the eu from the us section 232 measures on steel and aluminium, the commission would be encouraged to explore a potential positive agenda with the us. such an agenda would be based on four tracks: first, a deeper relationship on energy issues, notably in the field of trade in liquefied natural gas; second, voluntary regulatory cooperation between selected regulatory authorities on an ad hoc basis; third, joint work towards world trade organisation (wto) reform to level the playing field and towards mutually acceptable solutions to lift the current blockage of the wto upload body nomination; and fourth, discussions for reciprocal improvements in market access for industrial products, including cars and car parts, and liberalisation of goods in public procurement. this is the positive agenda that we are offering the united states. realistically, if the us decides to refrain from applying duties, i expect them, nonetheless, to want impose some sort of cap on eu exports. the question is whether that would be a hard cap, meaning volume limits above which no further eu exports would be possible, or a soft cap, under which further exports would be possible, but under duties. a soft cap of this nature would be less damaging than a strict hard cap. the volume of any tradable immigration quotas (tiqs) as well as their management and administration are also very important aspects to take into consideration. our future course of action will depend on the nature and the severity of the measures imposed on our exports by the united states and on the harm that they cause our industry. if the united states imposes restrictive quotas, the commission will prepare a fresh implementing regulation that will include some immediate rebalancing on imports from the us, based on the list that you are familiar with it, but still at a level significantly lower than would be the case if they were to impose duties rather than quotas. we are also ready to launch a wto settlement case. the commission is ready to take an appropriate safeguard action to protect our own steel market if it is shown to be justified by the investigation that is underway already. we have put in a prior surveillance system in place on aluminium so that we have a strong information basis in case action becomes called for in that section too. i would like to thank the european parliament for the strong support you have given to the commission so far. the importance of your outreach vis—à—vis us counterparts through legislative dialogue is not to be underestimated. with midterm elections approaching, i wish to encourage you to continue to meet with and to convey our concerns on us trade policy to our us interlocutors. it is important at this moment that the european union stands united and, i think, so far we have done so, and i’ll be looking forward to coming back and reporting to you the outcome of the coming days. hopefully, it will be a positive agenda that we can see, with no tariffs or quotas but, realistically, i don’t think we can expect that.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already done so. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is a welcome step towards a more effective and efficient use of the euro. at the same time, despite all the political upheavals of the day, it should be clear to everyone that the elimination of tariffs and other barriers to transatlantic trade must remain the overriding objective of all negotiations. donald trump's protectionist strategy cannot work because that is what long experience shows tariffs only help inefficient producers. they are dragging out and actually aggravating the problems and thereby threatening jobs in their own country, as we have seen on several occasions. the real problem on the international steel market is not in fact in europe but in asia, where overcapacity is destroying prices. it would be in the interests of both the us and the eu to agree on a common approach. for a time, the us side seemed willing to do this rather than engage in costly and pointless trade skirmishes. we are on your side, commissioner, and look forward to working with you.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not what we are seeing now is an attack on the rules-based trading system. this is not just the case for the eu, but also for 163 other countries in the world trade organisation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the steel industry is not affected by the crisis. this is clearly contrary to wto rules. mr. trump is also invoking a 1963 cold war law that requires you to discuss national security. it is quite clear that steel has nothing to do with national security in this context. there are also the first lawsuits in the united states against this action of the president. we must show a clear position of the european union, and we support the commissioner in this: no softening of position. we can talk about reform, but not under pressure. under pressure, there will be no dirty deals. it has nothing to do with national security, but rather with the fact that the actions of the american president endanger international security.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the customs dispute with the united states is entering the next round. the next trump deadline expires on friday, and the response of our trade commissioner was and is and remains correct: willingness to talk to the us, but clear edge against harmful, ideologized protectionism. of course we want to continue to have permanent derogations for the eu. german chancellor merkel is offering the us president all kinds of trade concessions behind closed doors, but without having a real plan. but that makes us vulnerable to blackmail and, above all, to trump's whims. these concessions may be the beginning of the end of free trade. that is why we must stand together as the eu, as a trading and negotiating bloc. what we need now is a fresh start on a genuine new transatlantic agreement, which also covers - but not only - trade issues, and above all a joint fight with the united states against subsidized overcapacity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to use the privileged knowledge of mrs hirsch - in germany the fdp is in opposition - to find out again what deeper offers the federal government has allegedly made.
the answer is the blue card procedure. as you know even better than we do, there have been discussions here with the minister for economic affairs and with the chancellor herself in the united states, and also about whether concessions on certain quotas and the like offer a way of safeguarding the german car market. but i think that would simply weaken our position as the european union.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, with the strategy that we’ve seen from trump, america first or something else, it does not only just attack the eu or china or whoever might be the ultimate target (there’s some speculation around that); what it’s actually doing – and it’s also not really about exemptions here – is that trump is attacking the multilateral system. he’s attacking a rules-based system. that’s what it’s about and that’s what is really making the danger in this situation. i think this is what we as the eu need to fight to preserve. we need to preserve the multilateral system. it has imperfections, sure, and needs to be reformed, but it’s there and it needs to be safeguarded. that’s why we should bring this case to the wto. it’s very laudable that we join china in the case, but we also need to be a bit more proactive on that matter. that doesn’t mean we need to sit idle while the wto decides in a couple of years or longer about what to do. we can act now. but of course, trade measures are only part of the answer. the other thing that we need to look at is how we become more independent from the moods of a us president or the moods of someone else. for that, i think the question to ask is, why it is so threatening to our european economy – or should i rather say economies? because that’s one of the problems: that we have 28, soon 27, different european economies that are trying to out-compete one another. that is part of the problem. we miss a strategy for economy and industry that goes beyond export, export, export. it cannot work like this. we are really, really independent. so we need to have a common european industrial policy that looks to protect our workers but that also supports a move to a low-carbon economy. then we can also really outshine others. we also have to find answers to an unfair globalisation and make it fair and make it better for people in europe – but also in the rest of the world – in order to defeat trump and other like—minded people. for that, we also need to have a strong role in the european parliament. it is very important that we are not shying away here from making statements as well in the parliament.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not commissioner, i agree with you. yes, we need a very clear strategy towards president trump, who obviously, against the background of the upcoming us congressional elections - and he is predicted badly - is making every attempt to present himself as a strong president again, in line with the strategy "america first". we must be clear: "america first" cannot mean that no one else will follow. i also agree that the european union should not play along and should only beg for exceptions for itself. trump is acting illegally, and we must now openly commit ourselves to the principle of equality before the law. this means that we must reject punitive tariffs against india or china by the united states, because we cannot allow these steps to further undermine the rules-based multilateral trading system. it is about overcapacity, it is about capacity, it is about production volumes, it is about issues that we have to deal with together, for example in the steel forum within the framework of the g20 or the oecd chinese, american, european, steel producing countries and aluminium producing countries to see how we can organise today's production in a way that preserves jobs, sustainable development, environmental standards promising. it's on for the hour. i hope, mrs malmström, that we can expect the commission to be more involved in this area.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr o'flynn, i have just one request: you mentioned earlier that the european union is based on the fact that it is a customs union. i think that the reason behind the error, not just because of brexit and your partly obscure reasoning, that the european union was not closed down to increase tariffs, but because the most successful model is that a large number of member states have completely eliminated tariffs. i think that you have a little confused the economic situation.
the commission has already done so. the commission's strategy seems to be 'you do what you do'. if the americans are nice, we're nice, and if they're not nice, we have the right answers to that. this is the beginning of every cycle in protectionism. history has shown this. if we continue to do this, simply to repay evil with evil, so to speak, we shall end up in protectionism. mr. trump cannot be taught. he simply believes that he has the strongest lever and he is not convinced by the arguments of mrs quisthoudt-rowohl that any protectionism leads to lack of competitiveness - he does not make his country big, but small. that is why i am now proposing that the eu should launch a free trade initiative of its own. the world is looking to the eu. we should be free-trade-lovers, and if it is true that protectionism harms a country, it is true that free trade benefits a continent! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i'm not going to let you do this. do you agree that the european commission is not exactly 'doing what you think it is doing' but that the proposals on the table are deliberately only about half of what is possible under wto law? secondly, do you agree with me that the party on whose list you were elected to this parliament has explicitly spoken out against free trade and against a trade agreement with the united states and that your argument is therefore somewhat ambiguous? and thirdly, do you agree that the commissioner is in favour of a massive foreign trade strategy, that she has now fortunately concluded many trade agreements successfully, and that we in parliament are now ... (the president cut the speaker off)
i thank you very much, mr caspary. we have 30 seconds for a question and 30 seconds for an answer. three questions is gonna be a little tight in 30 seconds anyway.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. - mr caspary! - what are you doing? i am only hearing what the commissioner has said and what is being said in this house, and that is the beginning of a protectionist spiral. and if you say: 'you are of a different opinion from the party for which you came to this parliament' - i always have the opinion of an economist, that free trade benefits everyone. no one's gonna talk me out of this, not even you, mr. caspary.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i am glad that we have a smart, sensible commissioner at the helm, that it is clear that the european response is value-based, that we are the voice of reason for free trade, for a wto system. i am also glad that mrs keller, who has led a stormy attack for the greens and the left against free trade and value-based trade agreements, is now returning to the port of reason. the commission has been very brief and somewhat confused in its economic views, but it has nevertheless been in favour of a value-based and structured trading system. so, in times of crisis, europeans come together. and we must also say to the europeans - and i say this at home, to my steelworkers, to the people who live here: in a situation of crisis where america is not our enemy, but a confused trump administration is trying to set fire to the world trade system, europe is the voice of reason that responds, where people are protected because we have a voice together in the european union, are taken seriously and are able to take reasonable measures to defuse the crisis on the one hand and not to become dependent on third parties on the other. i would also like to add that this is not the case in america where the majority of parliament and the commission have this in common. we're meeting with our colleagues in the us congress this month, and i doubt very much that the us congress will support this exotic policy of the president. it is fundamentally un-american, and we must also convey this to our colleagues in the american congress.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i am pleased that we have so far taken a common position in parliament on the threat of american tariffs, and i think, madam commissioner, that the european parliament should be able to take a position on this matter. they also made it very clear in their introduction: we want to defend the openness but also the uniformity of the european internal market, because we believe that in the world, in the global trading system, we need rules to which everyone - including ourselves - must adhere. and because we believe that we want to develop these rules further - especially with the trading partners with whom we work closely - we also started the ttip talks a few years ago, which were interrupted by none other than our current american counterpart, and therefore we should be careful not to abandon our openness to developing world trade and keeping the internal market open. secondly, i agree with the assessment made here that the punitive tariffs now unilaterally imposed on us by the americans are not compatible with the rules of the world trade organisation. if we want to defend international rules, we must also say here that we cannot accept the american approach at this point. i would like to see us, commissioner, resolve this dispute constructively and perhaps end up in the same way as george bush did a few decades ago. the threat of punitive tariffs was also made at that time, but in the end they did not bring about what the american side had promised. this would be the opportunity to start ttip over again. global trade benefits everyone, even though the people of the united states may not see it that way right now.
it's very nice that mr zahradil has fans in the stands. i would like to point out, however, that it is not parliamentary practice to give a statement of approval or disapproval from the gallery. spontaneous speech
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we should be careful not to go after the americans. we are not talking here about punitive tariffs, but about illegal, unjustified, protectionist tariffs, which are being discussed in the united states, and that is how we should call them in public. i am appalled that several colleagues in the debate have mentioned that we have higher average tariffs than the americans. yes, that's true, but the americans have much, much higher non-tariff barriers to our products. we have difficulty entering the public procurement market. we have the buy american act in the united states, which makes life difficult for our companies. and that is why a large majority here in the european parliament has always wanted a comprehensive agreement to settle these matters. unfortunately, it failed with the americans. the americans are not making their economy strong by taking these measures. if you make steel more expensive, you make american products more expensive. i wonder what will happen to all the cars that are being exported out of america to world markets at the moment, whether that will be possible in the future or whether it will increase unemployment in america.
colleague zoană, could you please put on your earphones? i am not going to go into that. they just got here. i now give the floor to the procedure for spontaneous reports. but i would like to point out that written applications - we are well into the time - for the spontaneous oral procedure will no longer be accepted. this is not the way. we assume that anyone who takes the floor in the spontaneous vote procedure is also taking part in the debate.
i thank you very much, mrs zoană. that's what i'm talking about. this is called "catch the eye" of the president, not "catch the postman" of the president. so, prior written applications are no longer allowed, at least not when i'm presiding. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
member of the commission. – mr president, there is a steel and aluminium problem in the world, notably an overcapacity in china due to heavily subsidising their own industry and thereby dumping the global market. but the eu is not the source of this. on the contrary, we have also suffered – our own, notably steel, but also aluminium, have suffered from this. we have put in place a lot of anti-dumping and anti-subsidy issues, we have reformed our trade defence instrument, and we should seek to address this problem globally with partners such as the us in the wto, in the global forum on steel and continuing the tri—party cooperation that we have started with japan and the us. the eu and the united states are strategic allies and partners. we should work together to address this and other issues in the global trading system. but it has to be done within the rules. the wto is not perfect, but it is the best system we have. the 164 members have set up global rules that have served us well – us and the united states. today we offer a positive agenda to the united states: a positive agenda where we can discuss issues such as liquid gas; where we can discuss voluntary regulatory cooperation, where appropriate; where we can discuss issues related to wto, including ending the blockage of the appellate body system; and where we could start to exploit and discuss a mutually-beneficial agreement addressing issues in industrial goods. it would have to be mutually beneficial and it would have to be explored – and, of course, were we to enter negotiations, it would have to be on a mandate given to the commission by the council. there are no secret negotiations going on on this. this would be a positive agenda, a mutually beneficial agenda. if this were rejected in the coming days, we would have no other choice than to go to the wto to show that we must respect the global trading system and the rules we have set up together. we will take rebalancing measures in a proportionate way in full compliance with the wto, and we will continue the safeguard actions on steel and aluminium, as we have already prepared. in the meantime, we will also continue to work for an open rule-based trade system in the world, together with allies, through free trade agreements and through the reform efforts that we are doing in the wto. thank you very much for the support and thank you for initiating this very timely debate.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr pier antonio panzeri, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the recommendation of the european parliament to the council, the commission and the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on libya (2018/2017 (ini)) (a8-0159/2018).
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been i would like to begin by thanking mr pier antonio panzeri, mr castaldo, vice-president of the commission, mr ayala sender, chairman of the maghreb delegation, and mr claude moraes, chairman of the libe committee, for conducting this important visit to tunis and tripoli last week. for the first time in more than six years, the european parliament has returned to libya, and this is a very important sign of the unity of europeans and of the european institutions, as mr panzeri spoke of, first of all in the attention we pay to what is happening in libya and the willingness to do so, this work of support and attention to libya, first of all by listening to what our libyan partners are doing and telling us and with a willingness to join european efforts and give a coherent framework for the action of the european union, its member states, its institutions in support of a transition process in libya. there is this strong determination and i am coming from paris at this very moment, where i took part in the international conference hosted by president macron and where i was able to bring this commitment, this european determination of all europeans and all european institutions to accompany this particularly important moment for a country as close to us as libya. i believe both the recommendations and your visit are inspired by this attitude towards libya, recognizing that libya is first of all, an important, vital, crucial country, not only for africa and not only for the mediterranean, but for europe as well, and also that libya is a rich country that would not need any help if it had not been transitioning for so long. it is a rich country not only in terms of national resources, but, first and foremost, of human capital. it is home to millions of smart, diverse people who have had enough of the current instability and of this endless transition. so we cannot make and i am happy to say that we are not making the mistake of looking at libya and focusing on one issue only, be it migration or even security. because the first duty we have the first responsibility and even the first interest we have as europeans is to support libya with libyans and for the libyans. because there would be no other way to have a successful end to this instability in the country. libya needs reconciliation, it needs a clear, legitimate framework and it needs inclusive dialogue. it also needs economic investments, nationwide, strong legitimate institutions and job opportunities for the people. this is the spirit of the work you are currently doing, looking at the broad spectrum of issues that are on the table, dealing with the country. and this has always been our approach to libya. this was also the spirit of our meeting in paris this morning. hosted by president macron, as i said, together with all the major libyan players, for the first time gathered together we pledged, and they committed, to support a constitutional process leading to elections ideally during this year you mentioned the date we agreed today of middecember and to unite libya's security forces, another aspect that is not at all irrelevant. so we need to contribute now, in a united manner europeans, arabs, africans and neighbouring countries, under the umbrella of the united nations to this process, helping libya to come out of this long transition. this is what the libyans want, it is what they are asking for and what they deserve. i would add that it is also the responsibility of the libyan leaders to respond and to deliver on this demand from the libyan people. the security situation in the country is improving slightly. the number of those killed in political violence has decreased sharply. there is a precarious, but real, calm in most of the country including tripoli, even if in recent hours we have seen worrying events in derna. terrorism has not been defeated yet. last week, a car bomb killed seven people and injured 20 in benghazi and at the beginning of the month terrorists struck the high national elections commission in tripoli, killing 13 people, and it was an attack against all the libyans committed to the democratic process. we have to make sure that this does not become an attack on the democratic process itself. and here international european support is essential because we have been working with the libyan authorities to prepare and to accompany this democratic process. we have been working with the libyan authorities to help, first and foremost, to ensure that their security forces unite under civilian control and that they fully respect human rights. we have a long way to go, but i see the commitment there and i see some movement happening. some militias will have to be integrated into the security forces through a proper vetting process. others will have to lay down their weapons and special representative salamé will soon present a strategy to this end to the un security council. we, as the european union, can and must continue to support the united nations in this regard, including through our civilian border assistance mission eubam that is now permanently established in tripoli so is best placed to work with the libyans on law enforcement, criminal justice and border management. i heard today from our libyan interlocutors all of them words of gratitude and praise for the work the european union is doing in this sector and others. uniting the security apparatus is not enough. bolder action is also needed to enforce the un arms and oil embargo and, as you know, operation sofia also plays an important role in this sector. the mandate of the operation is currently under review. by the end of this year we hope to reach a council decision to extend and strengthen this mandate, where necessary. but security is only one part of the picture, and our cooperation with the libyans goes beyond that. the political process is probably priority number one and is also what we discussed in more depth this morning in paris. as the european union, we are currently working with the high national elections commission to prepare the electoral process. it is thanks to the euun partnership that the steps of preparing this process have been put in place so far and we intend to continue in this way. technical preparations are ongoing. voter registration has been completed with 2.5 million registered voters out of four, if i'm not mistaken, so it is a very encouraging starting point. libyans want and deserve to exercise their fundamental rights and choose their countrys future, but there are two points i also raised very clearly today in paris with our libyan interlocutors, all of them. first of all, the libyans have to know what they are voting for. the powers of all institutions will have to be clarified in time. a president elected in a legal vacuum could be dangerous, and also because it is the first time the libyans will elect a president. so its powers and its relations with the other branches of the power, including and first of all, the executive branch, have to be defined. this is why adopting the constitution before the elections is essential to give clarity to the electoral process. i know that in your visit to tripoli you conveyed these messages to both the high council of state and the house of representatives and i know that you received assurances about the strong commitment. i have today heard encouraging voices in this respect. the other thing that i made very clear today - and i know this is also a reflection of your work - is that elections need to take place in an environment that ensures and guarantees that the day after the election all those involved recognize the result. elections that might be contested or disputed the day after might be counterproductive or, in any case and the best case, not let the country to move forward. this is why today this morning in paris i asked all four libyan leaders present to commit and engage in an electoral process, but also taking the responsibility of accepting the electoral results the day afterwards. i believe that this is the basis for a transparent, open and credible electoral process. libyans want an end to the transition. they made this very clear. they had more than 40 town hall meetings all over the country. we supported the organisation of these meetings. this is part of the work towards a national conference that should meet after the end of ramadan. the initiative has come from the united nations, the process is led on the ground by some ngos, and the european union is supporting including financially this process. for the first time since the revolution, libyans from all walks of life, all backgrounds and all different parts of the country have the opportunity to discuss their aspirations and the future of their country. we also support mediation activities between the tribes at community level, for example to ease the return home. i know that your delegation met, for example, with the mayor of tawergha, who expressed his gratitude to the european union. as these processes move on, the economy is also slowing picking up, this was also confirmed by our libyan interlocutors today. but conditions for ordinary people in libya remain dire. public services like health care have been badly affected, and we have to make sure that the benefits of an economy that might restart, starting from the oil production, gets to the libyan people on the ground. so, in parallel to the work on security and for reconciliation, we are also engaged on the ground to revive local economies and create good jobs. we are working with the world bank in particular to improve public finance management and with expertise france to create new business opportunities. we are also supporting 22 municipalities across the country i believe municipalities are key in this process to help them rebuild their infrastructure and deliver better services. a new and ambitious project with eur 50 million dedicated to it is under preparation in coordination with the italian cooperation. we care about libya, as you said, because we care about the people of libya, but also because we know that caring about libya is also the best investment in our own security and stability. i know that i took too long, so i will probably stop here and leave other comments for the other parts of our debates. i thank you very much, but, first and foremost, thank you for the excellent work you have been doing together with other colleagues.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu must continue to work to significantly improve stability, economic development and security in libya for the people there, or contribute to it. we need political stability in libya first and foremost. it is the basic prerequisite for economic development and better living conditions for the local people. but political stability can only be achieved if an inclusive process of reconciliation is set in motion. it is therefore important for us to support the un action plan for libya without reservation and to further deepen our diplomatic efforts. we all know -- and this is part of it -- the images of the refugee camps in libya, the images of violence and poverty and destruction. we condemn these grave violations of human rights and we will not tolerate these images any longer. the wide-ranging efforts of the high representative, together with the united nations and the african union, have already made it possible to dismantle some refugee camps in libya and to return more than 15 000 migrants from libya to their homes. we want to continue this positive development with the help of the libyan authorities.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. you, madam high representative mogherini, have just told us about the paris conference. a common army is to be built, a constitutional referendum is to be held and preparations are being made for common elections - probably as early as autumn. i welcome these recent developments. but because of the volatile situation in libya, it's very difficult to make any quick changes or improvements here. i am thinking of the mafia militias in tripoli, who have also gained access through the many weak state institutions. i wonder if they'll be willing to give that up easily. i hope so, but i have my doubts that it will be quick. it is also clear that the implementation of the paris proposals can only be achieved with the help of the un. the un is also central to the libyan peace process in our deployment, and we emphasize this. we also call for the eu to play an active role, in particular in promoting democracy and strengthening civil society. however, the text of the resolution also contains positions on eu cooperation on migration and refugee issues, which we as greens do not agree with. the eu is also working to strengthen cooperation with the libyan coastguard. we must not forget that people brought back to libya by the coast guard end up in camps where they are proven to be mistreated and tortured. in fact, a case is currently pending before the european court of human rights against italy for breach of the duty to protect against torture by cooperating with the libyan coastguard.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. many of the previous speakers have already referred to the catastrophic situation in libya. there's nothing to add to that. but today's question is what we can do as the european union. i am concerned about two things. i would also like to take up what the high representative said. firstly, we as the european union should continue to give our full support to the united nations peace efforts. it is above all the action plan that points the way to a political national reconciliation involving all the important actors in the country. and secondly, we should continue to meet our humanitarian obligations as the european union. in february this year, the european union adopted three new programmes to improve the situation of migrants, particularly in libya. they are equipped with 150 million euros. this is an important step, albeit one small step among many, to improve the lives of the people of libya and to stabilize the country. i believe that all of us here are pleased with the results of today's meeting in paris, with the fact that the influential political forces in the country have agreed on the first necessary steps towards reform, and above all with the parliamentary elections which, according to my information, are due to take place on 10 december. mrs lochbihler spoke of september, i think it is the 10th of december anyway. if these words are followed by action, today's agreement could be a decisive step towards reconciliation between the parties to the conflict. i would like to conclude by thanking our rapporteur, mr panzeri, on behalf of the whole committee, for this comprehensive report, which i consider to be a very good one.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. libya is the prime example of the failure of european foreign and migration policy. since the military intervention in 2011, libya has descended into chaos and become africa's gateway to the eu. we have to close this gate. we need the fortress europe. firstly, we must raise our drawbridge, and secondly, we must return the migrants to libya, who reach the eu from there. the european union has failed in both of these tasks. italy itself has concluded an agreement with libya. the eu contribution is zero. the same applies to returns to libya. and the biggest failure: the eu still does not protect its own borders. border security has been outsourced to libya and north african states. after years of crisis, the message is still the same: if you make it out of the mediterranean, you have a free ticket to the eu member states and their social systems. this is unbelievable!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not thank you, christopher. i think that with our anti-dumping toolkit we have really achieved a major new breakthrough in eu legislation. the european union is now the first major player in the world to take into account the social and environmental costs of setting a fair price level in international comparison. it is a compromise, certainly, and not everything has been resolved, but a decisive step has been taken. this is the first time that we have had to deal with social dumping and environmental dumping. this was originally a central demand, especially of the left and trade unionists. in today's globalised economy, this has also become the number one requirement in the corporate world - an important experience in my view. the european union must now actively and energetically engage with its international partners to bring this issue successfully to the multilateral fora. the task now is to develop a regulatory framework in world trade to prevent exploitation of labour and the destruction of nature and our climate. and this also requires the transparency and predictability of positions and international rules already mentioned. to this end, commissioner, i hope that together with the experience of eu legislation we will now succeed in modernising wto law accordingly and bringing it up to the standards of the 21st century.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the report by parliament on eu trade policy is rightly very critical. i welcome him and would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs saïfi, from the bottom of my heart for the good cooperation. but i do have a few things to say about that. the public debate has shown that the so-called modern trade agreements are restricting our democratic rights. but worse still, human rights are becoming less and less important. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. this chicken meat is produced with the help of 160,000 slaves. i repeat, you have not heard wrong: with the help of 160,000 slaves. is that compatible with human rights? another example: morocco occupies the economically interesting part of western sahara. the european court of justice has therefore ruled that trade agreements with morocco cannot cover products from these sectors. the eu commission has openly stated that it intends to circumvent this judgment. here too, human rights are being violated on a massive scale. so we see that our trade agreements, our policies, need a lot of improvement.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i would like to express my appreciation to the rapporteur, mr tokia saïfi. the report is a critical annual review, highlighting the complexity of the current trade policy challenges in implementing the eu trade strategy, while also clearly identifying actors, contents, contradictions and the need for transparency. i am particularly concerned, mrs saïfi, about the agreement to call for the eu and the member states to be more involved in the discussions in the united nations on a binding treaty on corporate responsibility for human rights and the economy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i hope my colleagues can join them. finally, i would like to ask the commission, mrs malmström, to commission a sustainability study on contractual options for future trade relations with the united kingdom.
prime minister of luxembourg. mr president of the european parliament, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen meps, ladies and gentlemen, i am very honoured to be among the heads of state and government of the european union today who are addressing the european parliament's plenary to debate the future of europe. it is all the more important for me to address you here in strasbourg, which occupies a special place in the history of european integration. i am fortunate to be part of a generation that did not experience the second world war and the post-war years. the european union has brought our countries the longest period of peace ever known on our continent. living in peace may seem trivial, but believe me, peace is never trivial. europe is an old continent made up of countries and regions rich in culture and history. the diversity of its heritage is the beauty of this europe. and the european political architecture must take account of this diversity. the fact that the european parliament meets in plenary in strasbourg, one of the three capitals of europe, alongside luxembourg and brussels, is also symbolic in this respect. it was at the european council in strasbourg in december 1989, a few weeks after the fall of the berlin wall, that leaders of the time, such as helmut kohl, françois mitterrand and hans-dietrich genscher, took the fate of cold war europe into their own hands, laying the foundations for european reunification, which went hand in hand with german reunification. i am thinking back to that period in the late 1980s, a time of great upheaval in the world. at the strasbourg council, the call was made to move towards the european union. i believe that this call is still relevant, especially at a time when the world is again undergoing major changes. i am thinking in particular of the unpredictability of some of our partners, but also of the risk of a loss of european competitiveness in a globalised world. our continent must be more united if it is to protect its citizens and shape its future. the conclusions of december 1989 still seem to me to be valid. i quote from it: 'it is in the interest of all european states that the community should be strengthened and accelerated in its march towards european union'. thirty years later, let us therefore speed up our march towards the european union once again. and let us speed it up, especially by taking into account the expectations of our citizens. let us make our union stronger and more capable of meeting the challenges we face today. in this context, the citizens' dialogue must be fostered. the citizens' consultations, proposed by president macron, are a valuable opportunity to involve citizens and identify their concerns, hopes and expectations. luxembourg was one of the first countries to join this initiative. i myself launched the first consultations on 20 april. i call for action by all member states to meet the expectations of our citizens. but if this unity cannot be found when action is required, i would remind you that we also have in the treaties the tools which enable us to move forward as a group, namely the possibility of acting within the framework of enhanced cooperation. just as the fall of the berlin wall set in motion the process of welcoming european nations from which we had been artificially separated since the end of the second world war, the refugee crisis in 2015 and the british referendum a few months later are events that call for a new momentum for all of us. i am convinced that the successive events of recent years - the arab spring, the war in libya, the refugee crisis, the growing insecurity in the sahel region and, above all, the war in syria, not to mention the terrorist attacks in our cities - mark a turning point which requires a reinforced action by the european union. like our predecessors, we must be courageous and take the decisions needed to face these challenges, in order to maintain a europe that is politically and economically strong, free and open to the world. in the aftermath of the last world war, caused by exacerbated nationalisms, my country, along with its neighbours, chose to be one of the founding countries of the european union. this historic opportunity has given us a perspective on europe that is that of a state that has participated in the evolution of the european union over time. for us, the choice of europe was, at every stage, dictated by our convictions: the choice of a european state that defines its national sovereignty also through or even thanks to its membership of the union. and i am very proud that the latest polls have shown that luxembourgers are the ones who love europe the most. today, paradoxically, populist forces are calling for national sovereignty alone to ensure europe's salvation. the european union is more than ever protecting our sovereignty in a globalised world. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european union provides added value to european citizens, in countless instances improving their daily lives. however, one of the greatest challenges facing the union today is the fact that these advantages resulting from a country's membership of the union are simply taken for granted. it is therefore not a coincidence, in my view, that so many uk citizens living in my country have been applying for luxembourg citizenship since the brexit referendum. many others have apparently been doing the same in other member states. these applications for citizenship by british citizens are proof of the huge added value of the public goods and services created by the european union, which these citizens do not want to give up: most obviously, the four freedoms. i am not going to go into detail. our citizens want a weltoffenes and tolerant europe, in which every woman and every man has the same opportunities, irrespective of religion, colour or sexual orientation. only in this way will the european union be able to contribute to finding solutions to the global problems of our time. i think yesterday was another year of climate change. the negotiations on the paris agreement on climate change have shown that the eu is a powerful force in finding solutions to global problems. the eu can also play a leading role in global issues of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, as the past weeks have shown. genauso is looking for answers to the world's changing demographics. the migration issues of the 21st century are not national issues. i am convinced that the european union is the answer to these global challenges. only a european response can guarantee the security and the general welfare of our citizens even in the 21st century. i would also like to expressly welcome the efforts of the european commission, and in particular commissioner malmström, to ensure free and open world trade in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation. our citizens want to participate in economic growth and prosperity. the world economic situation is currently positive, with growth in all eu member states. the time is therefore right to strengthen europe's competitiveness. the european internal market is therefore a basic prerequisite for our companies to be globally competitive and above all to remain so. the euro is once again a basic prerequisite for a well-functioning eu internal market. the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. last friday, the eu's finance ministers, with the proactive involvement of luxembourg, reached agreement on the strengthening of banking union and so set the right course for deepening economic and monetary union, to which the heads of state and government committed themselves in june next. the euro and the internal market are mutually reinforcing and in the same way the economic and monetary union is also reinforcing as two sides of the same coin. the deepening of the eu internal market is therefore also one of our main concerns. i am thinking above all of the creation of a digital eu-internal market. it would be incoherent to seek a european turnover tax for internet companies on the one hand, if on the other we do not even have a single eu digital internal market. we should also avoid short-term interim solutions, which make long-term decisions even more difficult. i 'm not sure i understand . i believe that the taxation of the profits of internet companies should be introduced. only such a taxation should also be in line with the need to maintain and strengthen the eu's global competitiveness. this is why cooperation with the oecd seems to me to be very important. the commission has also proposed that the eu should be able to provide a framework for the development of a european digital economy. we are talking, by the way, often about fiscal harmonization in the european union. the binnenmarkt certainly needs a certain degree of harmonisation, also in the fiscal field. the commission has been working on the subject for some time, and the commission has been working on it for some time. should we in the tax area if we already want to harmonize not in the interest of the global competitiveness and the taxpayers of the european union also just about tax cuts reden können? (beifall) and believe me, i am not talking about the dumping of the word, but the overall competitiveness of the european union lies very much in the heart. the current discussion on the taxation of internet companies also shows that we must invest more in innovation and in the financing of start-ups. in a common and open european internal market, the deficits of some are the surpluses of others. i am not in favour of a community of debts or creditors, but i am aware of our responsibility for the common good at european level. the strong disparities between the individual partners in the internal market are also not conducive to the necessary economic stability in europe. mr president, i would remind you that europe is not limited to its common market. to paraphrase jacques delors, 'you do not fall in love with the common market'. at the same time, we must also work towards a european social model which promotes upward social convergence among the member states. in this respect, i welcome yesterday's vote in plenary, following the agreement reached last march between parliament and the council on the revision of the directive on the posting of workers in the internal market. this is an important step in the fight against social dumping. similarly, i hope that an agreement on social legislation for the road transport sector - legislation which allows for upward social convergence while taking into account the specificities of this sector - can be reached before the end of this parliamentary term. i also welcome the commission president's proposal to create a european labour authority to strengthen crossborder cooperation and the fight against fraud and abuse. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, only a strong european economy and monetary union can generate jobs and tax revenues to finance modern european social protection models. the deepening of economic and monetary union must not, however, be limited to budgetary aspects alone. the strengthening of competitiveness and productivity at european level, and the creation of a genuine european innovation area, are convergence factors which, i am convinced, will ultimately facilitate common management in budgetary matters. a competitive, prosperous and open europe will be the best guarantee of the protection of the european social model. any deepening of the economic and monetary union will sooner or later also require the enlargement of the euro area. the union treaties provide for the accession of all member states to the euro, except for two of them. the adoption of the common currency is therefore an essential legal principle in the implementation of the treaties. however, we must act without haste, taking particular account of the lessons learned in recent years, and ensure the productivity and competitiveness of all euro area countries. the next multiannual financial framework will therefore have to reflect the need for economic convergence by focusing more on, among other things, innovation. in this respect i welcome the commission's proposals, which provide a good basis for discussion. i am also pleased with the attention paid to the erasmus programme. mr president, i am fortunate to be part of this 'erasmus generation': when i was a student at the faculty of law in nancy, i did an erasmus stay at the aristotle university of thessaloniki. i was able to discover new subjects, but this erasmus stay opened my eyes to the contribution of europe to the daily life of each of us. i can only recommend to every student to take an erasmus stay, because it is a really worthwhile exchange and experience. in the same vein, without going into detail, i also believe in the added value of the cohesion funds. i think the time has come for a reflection in a spirit of solidarity on the best use of these funds. i think it is important to ensure that cohesion funds are used in an even more transparent way, in compliance with the rule of law. mr president, before i address the expectations of our citizens in relation to the union's external action, let me say a few words about its internal organisation. it is, of course, legitimate to discuss this internal organisation, a federal europe, a europe of parties and the distribution of powers between the institutions. i must say that i am a little puzzled by the institutional debates. these discussions, important as they are, are not very enthusiastic for our citizens. and if we think that's what they're passionate about on the outside, we're wrong. institutional change must be linked to the pursuit of concrete policy objectives, which respond to the needs of citizens and also to their aspirations. it is precisely this concrete added value that must be the main theme of institutional change. here, let me say, i have difficulty understanding - and i discussed this again last night with one of your representatives - the position of the spitzenkandidaten, the candidates at the head of the list, without having transnational lists. i know your decision, mr president, but i hope you will come back to it one day. (applause) for me, we started from the bottom: we have spitzenkandidaten without transnational lists, whereas the spitzenkandidat should be the spitzenkandidat of a transnational list. mr president, the citizens that you and i represent expect the union to contribute to their safety and security from internal and external threats. notwithstanding our internal challenges in numerous policy domains, it seems to me that the biggest crises were imported from outside the european union. the refugee crisis was triggered by a worsening security situation in the middle east and the sahel region, to which the wars in libya and syria have contributed. the dramatic events of summer and autumn 2015, when hundreds of thousands of refugees have been fleeing war on a scale not seen in europe since 1945, are obvious evidence that no european nation state is able to cope with such tragedies on its own. in that respect, i deeply regret the opposition by some eu member states to carrying their share of the burden in a spirit of solidarity. in the age of globalisation, european solidarity is even more important than it was before. by the way, in any relationship, solidarity is a concept that should not be qualified. we need to stand together in solidarity and not try to introduce concepts like flexible solidarity, which at the end of the day will result in a reciprocal lack of solidarity. (applause) the european parliament has been very active in the debate on the future of the european union, and i am sure that the european parliament will be very active in the debate on the future of the union. man stands at the window, drinks his gläschen aus, and sees the river descend the bunten schiffen gleiten; then he goes home and is fried and fed. this faustian passage illustrates the wandel der zeit, which is the passage of time. the eu has a long-standing commitment to the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. these länder are neither "hinten" nor "weit weg". the european union's external policy can also have an influence on the future of the union. national frontiers lose their meaning in this context, or in other words: a national luxembourgish frontier can only be protected at the external frontier of the european union. the citizens want to be killed. frontex is of the greatest importance not because i want to close the eu's external borders, but because a stronger european border guard is essential for the security of the european union and the preservation of our values. i also welcome the commission's financing proposals yesterday. i am convinced that the european citizens are ready to co-finance a european security guarantee at the external borders. security is just as important a european asset as freedom of movement and freedom of movement. the european union is the only country in the world which has a free movement of persons. more europe and larger eu budgets, which also burden the national budgets, are urgently needed. i also expressly welcome the fact that every eu citizen everywhere in the world enjoys consular protection at all european consulates. mr president, the 2015 migration crisis has shown that the european union must redouble its efforts, not only to secure its external borders, but also, in general, to strengthen its policies in the external dimension, such as foreign affairs, defence, development cooperation, not to mention a common policy on asylum and immigration. it is only through the joint exercise of national sovereignty that we can also secure our own sovereignty. let us have the same courage as our predecessors in 1989 when they set out to reunite europe, and let us ensure our security and that of our borders together. i am also convinced that we will all spend less together if we pool our efforts, because of the efficiency gains and synergies we will be able to achieve. the same principle applies to the defence. luxembourg is fortunate to be surrounded by friendly countries, which pose no threat to its security, quite the contrary. the grand duchy of luxembourg's history makes it clear that it does not intend to push the union in any other direction than that of supporting peace. we believe in the virtues of multilateralism and international law, diplomacy and development cooperation. like other countries, luxembourg has also experienced more difficult budgetary periods in recent times. some people immediately said that the cooperation budget could be reduced. why would you want to help out when you still have problems inside? my government has decided, as the previous government has already decided, that even in the most difficult of times, the cooperation budget, that one per cent which is spent on the poorest in the world, is one per cent which is well invested. when we are concerned about whether we are going to eat hot or cold, some mothers wonder what they will be able to feed their children for a week. while we are wondering what we are going to do, some people would just like to have a future and prospects. this percentage allows young people who, today or perhaps yesterday, had no prospects for the future, to have a job and to be optimistic about tomorrow. so we are defending this development policy, and i regret that at international level, and also sometimes at european level, when the red bicycle has to be unveiled, the cooperation budget is the first target. it's popular, but trust me, it's not good. (applause) i would like to thank mr president, i am also convinced that it is in the interest of the citizens of the union's member states to do more to achieve closer cooperation in the field of external relations. in this context, i am in particular in favour of a swift implementation of the permanent structured cooperation launched on the sidelines of the european council of 14 december 2017. in the same vein, i believe that cooperation should be deepened in the field of foreign policy. the european union must aim to speak with a stronger voice in favour of peace, which is a fundamental value, because war is the negation of human rights. because of its history, europe must be a bulwark against dictatorship and barbarism. the european values, as we have enshrined them in the treaties, are the fundamental consensus among the member states. they are the foundation of our relations with the rest of the world. finally, i remain firmly convinced that cooperation also remains a bulwark against the root causes of insecurity. a broad concept of european security must include the cooperation and development dimension. i have spoken of our common values, but i cannot end my speech, mr president, without mentioning the importance i attach to freedom of the press, an essential component of our democracies. in the past year, several dozen journalists have been murdered, two of them in our own union. this is a situation which concerns me to the highest degree. it is important that the european union continues to defend and promote freedom of the press. mr president, allow me to say - you have seen, i spoke to you in french, in german, in english - (the speaker is speaking in luxembourgish) i have just spoken the other language we speak in the grand duchy of luxembourg, which is our national language, luxembourgish, to thank the six luxembourgish meps who are defending the position of the grand duchy of luxembourg in this europe. we are not the largest member state, but believe me, we believe in our europe. in conclusion, let us speed up our march towards europe with confidence and boldness. our world is changing and the european union is the best guarantee for our collective sovereignty and the flourishing of all our citizens. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen of the house. once again, i would like to congratulate your president for taking the initiative to invite one prime minister after another to this plenary session in order to discuss major issues in europe with the colleagues of the european parliament. that is something which must be welcomed, because the dialogue between governments and the european parliament is as important as the dialogue between the commission and the european parliament. i am invited each and every time to respond to the prime minister visiting us, and i must repeat myself by saying that the differences are not as deep as they seem. i would in this particular case disagree with the prime minister of luxembourg, whom i very warmly welcomed yesterday, and i would have to disagree with myself, because he has said exactly what the commission and the president think. it is good to see that the luxembourg government is enthusiastically behind the european commission's action plans. that had to be said clearly, that happened today. (beifall) i cannot therefore contradict the prime minister of my country because he has basically said to you what the commission is trying to convey as a message. therefore, i will be very brief. yes, within a year europeans will have elected a new european parliament, the composition of which, of course, no one yet knows. it will be different from today's, which gives me some concern. i would also like us to sign up together in false - and i know xavier is doing it with me - against the rampant populism we are witnessing in europe and in all countries, including my own. but luxembourgers being wise men and women, the movement is not a marching movement, but a contained and contenable movement. i would like to mention some points yesterday. because we have to deal with a new european parliament today in one year, i think that now the time has come when the governments must also clearly and distinctly recognize their colour. we have a european council in june, and that is where the deepening of the european economic and monetary union will go. i would like the heads of government to be a little more clear about what is going on when one of the key elements of european economic and monetary union is implemented. the luxembourg prime minister has done this today, but not in a comprehensive and complete way. the question is: wollen we ja oder nein ein european einlagensicherungssystem in etappe einführen? the question is whether the european union should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european union is able to meet the requirements of the single market. i am not at all of the opinion that the hopshop of today goes to tomorrow, but one must in principle move in this direction. (beifall) in the matter of taxation: yes, i am also for taxation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the (heiterkeit) yeah, i've made that several times! i have needed 19 years to make a mistake, others have had time to make a mistake. but in the field of tax policy and the internet, there is no question of a tax reduction or a tax increase, but of a tax right. it cannot continue to be that the internet giants pay 8% tax, while the small and medium-sized enterprises pay on average 30%. this is an unfair tax situation and must be corrected. (beifall) on foreign policy, i agree with the prime minister on a number of points. but i would still like governments, in the light of recent events, to agree on a simple principle. in foreign policy, to be effective - and xavier argued for the effectiveness of europe - we will have to take our decisions by qualified majority. we cannot rule the world if we remain on the principle of unanimity. it's not gonna work. on behalf of the commission, we proposed that the european council should now decide by qualified majority in certain areas. if one member state stands in the way of europe's diplomatic path, europe is blocked and we are ridiculous when we claim to play a leading role in the united nations and other international forums. i demand a qualified majority on foreign policy and i do not doubt for a moment that the luxembourg government, for the reasons that xavier has put forward, will accompany us on this path, which i know is not easy. mr president, i would like to add a few points to what the prime minister said. i would like to say, as a luxembourg citizen who i am, who i am and who i will always be, that luxembourg has played a peacemaking role in europe. he cannot afford to do otherwise, but europe is part of the grand duchy's raison d'état and i am grateful to the prime minister for continuing along this path.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. welcome to the european parliament. it is good to have the luxembourg voice here. luxembourg is a strong advocate of european integration, a founding member, and one can say: a small country, but a great european. this is luxembourg. and that is why, welcome. luxembourg has also had a great deal of influence in the history of the european union and continues to do so today. they thanked the six meps. i would also like to mention jean-claude juncker, who is at the head of europe as president of the commission. the former leaders, such as one of the founders of europe, joseph bech, and jacques santer, were also strong personalities who pushed europe forward. and luxembourg is of course europe: with over 40% of citizens from other member states living in luxembourg, it is probably the most european country we have in europe today. that's why i'm saying welcome. i would like to take one point directly from your speech, which jean-claude juncker also took up: we are talking about tax cuts, and the liberals typically applaud that, but we only have tax cuts debates in the corporate sector. we are discussing this because there is tax competition, because companies today decide where they pay the least taxes, and therefore go to the state where they pay the least taxes. but the people who do not make as much use of the mobility of the single market, the workers and those who pay vat, who go to the supermarkets, unfortunately cannot benefit from these tax cuts. that is why the point made by jean-claude juncker is absolutely right: it's not about general tax cuts, it's about tax fairness. it's about the fact that corporations pay exactly the same amount to our government as anyone else. (applause from the centre) i would like to highlight two issues today. mr. prime minister, we have discussions with heads of state and government every week. that is why i have always insisted on two points in this debate. i would like to start by talking about the rule of law, because you are here as a luxembourg citizen, because you are the home of our european court of justice. the european union is not a political union, but a political union of the peoples of europe. europe is a community of law. we should reflect on the revolutionary idea behind the fact that it is not the rule of the strongest that is valid, as has been the norm for centuries on this continent, but the promise that european citizens can live and practice their lives on the basis of the rule of law. this rule of law also creates wealth, it's part of our european way of life, and it's challenged today by the lengthy litigation we sometimes have, by the economy making its own rules - we got this on facebook last week - by the disempowerment of the rich - the catchword tax avoidance - by the question that sometimes there is weak political backing for legal institutions, and of course the problem of corruption. right must never follow power, but must always limit power. that is the principle behind it, and we must once again take greater care of our rule of law. we may need to have a common thinking, a common understanding of how we train lawyers. we must consider that the conditionality proposed by the commission is a good step in the right direction. the rule of law must have a price in the future if it is not respected. and the rule of law must not become a political issue between parties, but must be monitored neutrally, for example by the ecj. the second issue i want to raise today is one that you have also raised, one that we all have to worry about very much, and that is the work of our media. the freedom of the press in the state, the media, are as essential to the future of europe as the judiciary. that is why we must face up to the drama of the situation. it is intolerable that in the 21st century daphne caruana galizia, ján kuciak and yesterday in ukraine arkadi babchenko were murdered, apparently in the exercise of their duty to uphold a free media. we are facing enormous challenges. i'd like to pick out just two. one is the digital challenge. we need to arm ourselves, including our services, to strengthen the structures of the state, to take up the fight against fake news and against disinformation and against the hatred that we see there in social media. we are not equipped enough to deal with them. we must create transparency. i want to know the algorithms that facebook, twitter and others use to prioritize news or guess backwards. and we need to discuss how we can ensure that diversity of opinion is maintained. on television, in the newspapers and on the radio, there are laws that say that all parties should have a proper place in the election campaign. why don't we have these laws for digital media today? the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment. and we may also need regulations that in times of crisis the citizens are informed by the state. finally, the traditional media, the publishing houses are disappearing, they are losing more and more power, more and more financial power, they are being taken over by russian investors, by others who have political interests and not publishing interests. and that's why we need to have a discussion about transparency of ownership in the media. we need an annual report on media independence - also in hungary, so that there is no doubt - in all the countries of the european union we need this strengthening. we need common standards and perhaps also consideration of whether we can strengthen public media even more. these two points are necessary, they underline the principle of europe today. but we must strengthen it again if europe's future is to be guaranteed. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. europe is not as good as it is portrayed here. the european patient is ill, and before a doctor recommends a treatment, he first makes a diagnosis and that did not happen this morning. i am afraid that the prescription for more europe that was adopted this morning will give the european patient the rest. the dramatic growth of right-wing populist, far-right parties is also the result of too much europe. and brexit -- for me, the biggest disaster of recent years -- is also, at least indirectly, a result of too much europe. it is good that you point out that the british now want to become all luxembourgers. but, mr prime minister, i would have expected you to point out what this means for europe, that a country so large as to have 9 or 10 other european countries leaving europe at once is going to do this. the state crisis in italy is also a consequence of too much europe - at least of the euro. you have pointed out that the single market is somehow linked to the euro. i'm sorry, but this is nonsense. the economic development of the non-euro countries in the eu over the last 20 years has been much better than that of the countries that have the euro. "buongiorno" is the only way to say it. there is no country in europe that suffers from a one-size-fits-all currency like italy. before the introduction of the euro, italy was a country with a 6% share of the world market. today, that figure has fallen to 3%. the country is over-indebted and youth unemployment in italy is an absolute disaster.while italy is suffering from what it sees as a far too strong currency, german industry is generating a huge export surplus due to what it sees as a far too weak currency. mr president, you have rightly pointed out that fortunately you were not affected by the turmoil of the war and the post-war period - or rather, you did not have to experience it. my father stayed in the war, we were bombed twice, and i'm glad that we've had peace in europe for over 70 years. but this has nothing to do with the euro. it's the democracies! there has never been a democracy that attacked another. this is what we have to look after but not the euro. so, quite apart from the fact that germany is not at war with the non-euro countries either, i would like to point out what the euro is doing at the moment: italy in particular is currently being set in motion with anti-german slogans. why would you do that? it is quite clear that the euro forces the potentially largest creditor, germany, to continually impose rules on the potentially largest debtor, italy. but mrs merkel was not elected by the italians. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. instead of trying to tell italians how to remain competitive in the world market, we should leave it to them to decide whether they do it through labour market reforms, devaluation or a combination of both. the recent elections in italy clearly show that more and more italians feel the same way. at the request of the two italian members of this house, the european council in brussels on 14 and 15 december, in the context of the european council in brussels, stressed the importance of the european union's role in the world economy. in the event of an exit from monetary union, italy must first settle all its liabilities to the ecb. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative in the matter of the budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have listened with great attention to your remarks and ideas on the future of europe, mr prime minister, and although they all sound very good at first, they are nevertheless very contradictory. on the one hand you talk about tax justice, on the other hand we know that luxembourg's corporate tax policy is fuelling a huge tax dumping competition in the eu. and even if you do not like the word, this tax dumping has a negative impact on the daily living conditions of the majority of people in europe, because in their daily lives there is no money for investment in schools, kindergartens, education, research and health. you are talking about luxembourg doing its homework on taxation. but luxembourg has opposed the blacklist - to give you some examples of how this is not the case - has opposed the zero-percent criterion, has opposed the public register in the fight against money laundering and has opposed the country-by-country public reporting to prevent tax avoidance. i wonder, and i ask you, how this contradictory behaviour fits into the expectations you have for the future of europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr prime minister! i like luxembourg, not because of the many petrol stations or the cheap cigarettes. luxembourg is a beautiful country and the luxembourgers are an open, friendly people. but why are so many headlines about luxembourg not so friendly to people in europe? i quote commissioner moscovici who said back in march that luxembourg's tax practices undermine fairness and a level playing field in our single market. and according to le soir, the 100 richest belgians park 48 billion euros in their fiscal garden. these contradictions are calling into question the whole of our common europe in the minds of many people. so my question to you is: how do you want to contribute in your country to more justice, to fairer taxation in europe, to a better life for all in europe and not just for a few who earn better? and, in concrete terms, do you support the commission's proposal for a common assessment basis and for country-specific reporting in the council so that we can finally reach agreement on this issue within the eu?
the next item is the debate on a topical subject (rule 153a) on eu values and the increase in corruption and crime due to 'golden visas' (2018/2676 ((rsp)). i would point out that there are no spontaneous word-changes and no blue cards allowed in this debate.
madam field marshal, if i may have a word. we had a little confusion. you were supposed to be the first speaker, and i was given two minutes to speak, but as the author, you have two minutes extra. so you have four minutes to speak. we've gotten a little confused about the speaking times. please, mrs. field!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if we look around the internet, we see luxury watches, luxury yachts, very beautiful villas and, in exactly the same way and language, citizenship in european union countries and unlimited residence rights. i'm with my colleague in the field: this is not just a problem of a few states. recently, an investor from ukraine was granted indefinite residence in southwestern lower saxony, germany, simply because he had invested enough. did they ever look at where the money came from? i'm not going to. but there is one thing we cannot do: citizenship and residence rights are acquired by doing something in a country, by integrating, by putting in all the effort, not because it is a commodity that can be bought for money, because then you lose all respect. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the commission should not only draw up a report on the status but also present an analysis of its proposals, which it is now asking to do.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i am glad to have heard so many speeches with which i agree completely. there is no disagreement at all in this house, and i can repeat all that and confirm what colleagues have already said: it is a scandal when citizenship is simply sold, and it is impossible and contrary to eu values when it promotes criminal activities and spreads in the eu, when money laundering is promoted and when corruption spreads in the eu - we all agree on that. but apart from what mr rosati has said, i have not heard a single viable proposal on how to deal with this problem. which is why i think we need to talk about it. mr rosati is quite right: we must say that if a right of residence is granted purely on the basis of investment projects, then it must not be linked to nationality. we must distinguish between residence rights and citizenship. if citizenship is granted, then we may have to make a distinction between national citizenship and citizenship of the union and say: citizenship granted quickly does not give access to citizenship of the union. citizenship of the union is only possible if you have been here for a long time and if you are truly integrated into the european union and its values.
i would like to point out once again that it is not the custom of a parliament to give its assent or disapproval from the rostrum.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. do you remember the devastating floods in romania in 2010? do you remember the pictures of the ammunition explosions in cyprus? or have you heard about the eu's joint mobile laboratory, which we used for the ebola outbreak in west africa in 2016, among other things, and which - if you follow the news - will probably be used again soon? in all these disasters we have activated our european disaster relief mechanism, we have given aid across borders in a spirit of great solidarity. to make this even better in the future, we are modernising the joint mechanism with resceu. as the shadow rapporteur for my group, i have been travelling a lot in the last few months with technical assistance, fire and rescue services, always with the same question: what can we do to make resceu better and more applicable to you in an emergency? i have made these proposals and i should like to thank the rapporteur, mrs gardini, for her excellent cooperation. we have worked together to put an end to the bureaucratic red tape of the commission's proposal. we've avoided duplication of effort, leaving command and control where it belongs: with the ground forces. this is important, this is good. we are talking about a report which significantly improves the commission's proposal and makes it applicable. resceu can be such a powerful tool for a europe that delivers and helps in a very concrete way.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right of initiative. this phenomenon is more widespread within the european union than we think. why is that? first, because it is technically very simple. secondly, because it is very cheap and because it is also considered in many member states as a kind of chivalrous crime, not fraud. this is why up to 12% of all used cars on the national market are tampered with and between 30% and 50% of all used cars on the international market are tampered with. this will cause an economic loss to the european economy, to consumers, of between six and nine billion euros. in addition to this economic damage, we must of course also regret that it is at the expense of road safety, but also at the expense of the environment. the reason why we in parliament are quite united here and why we voted with a large majority in the committee on transport is that it would be very easy to change and eliminate this situation throughout europe. there are good examples of best practice, for example in belgium the so-called car pass system, or in the netherlands this national motorway pass. the fact that the kilometres are recorded at each workshop visit, at each main inspection and at each service and transferred to this national database, which ultimately leads to the fact that every secondhand car buyer in belgium can request a certificate which ultimately gives information on the kilometres. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what are we gonna do? we originally wanted a european database solution. but we're out of that. and now we want to have national databases in the member states, which we then want to network across borders - this is the most important thing about this issue, about this topic. and then the point is that we expect to have a legal framework in place for what data is collected and when it's collected and how it's accessed. again, it should be that each time you go to the workshop, the mileage is recorded. this model is simple, it is cheap and quick to implement and would save consumers eight billion euros in one fell swoop. we must also take account of the technical improvements. the technical improvements are obvious. even today, manufacturers have the ability to use safe technology. there are so-called hardware security modules that could ultimately do just that. they don't cost much either. the study shows that it would cost about one euro per vehicle. we have already in the type-approval regulation the obligation to send the data to the manufacturers for the new cars. commissioner, we now expect the european commission - and there is no excuse for me and for many in this house, no pretext why this should not be done - and the member states, on your initiative, to take legislative action which will ultimately recognise tachograph manipulation as fraud, and that legislation comparable throughout europe will be created to tackle this problem. i would like to thank all my shadow rapporteurs for their constructive work in the last few weeks and look forward to the debate. (applause from the centre)
the commission has already made a number of proposals. with our recommendations to the commission on the fight against tachometer tampering, we are taking an important step towards increasing the protection of european motorists and tackling a long-term problem. such manipulations are not isolated cases. adac, europe's largest traffic club, points out that in germany one in three used cars is affected by tachographs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in the member states. it's not just about the economic damage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the road safety directive is implemented. the technologies are available, we have member states that have already introduced systems. only an encryption technique such as hardware security modules can contribute to this. that would be an investment of only one euro per car. this investment would make it easier to prevent such manipulation. i can only ask the commissioner to act on our will, which we will also express tomorrow with an overwhelming majority for our colleague mr ertug, and to submit a legislative proposal as soon as possible.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to thank you for the broad support for this proposal in this house. commissioner, let me make this clear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. only, that's not going to solve the tach manipulation problem. for example, article 16 of the road worthiness package states that the commission is to examine the feasibility, costs and benefits of setting up an electronic vehicle information platform and the exchange of information. this is a 2014 directive. what has happened so far? i didn't say anything. and what you have described will not help if we do not succeed in achieving what we have described as the next step, namely the exchange, the networking between the member states. what good is all this in the current regulations if the data is somewhere on hold? no, they have to be networked so that everyone on the ground has the ability to access this data. otherwise, all this is a good exercise, but it will not lead to the goal. so there's no reason not to do it, not even economically. this tamper-proof software costs just one euro per car, according to the study. well, that can't be the problem. again, let it be clear that we do not want new rules. we simply want to bring together the systems that have worked so far at european level. we need the european commission to do that. there's no point at all in waiting until 2020, because now this is a low-hanging fruit so these are things that can be done immediately, if the european commission agrees internally who is responsible. and if that step is taken, then this will all be a good solution. but waiting until 2020 is not the answer. as i have described it, best practice is on the table, let's build up the national databases, let's network them, then the problem will be solved relatively quickly! i thank parliament again.
deputy author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. on 18 january this year we took a very good decision, on a very good basis of the european commission on the recognition and enforcement of decisions in matrimonial matters and parental responsibility. i was very pleased with this legislative proposal that was made, especially since some of the suggestions i made in an earlier report had been incorporated. it's a good law. there is more legal certainty, faster decisions are made, and this is very important, especially when it comes to custody issues. however, the european commission's proposal has a major drawback: it applies only to married couples. registered partnerships are excluded. and that is just unbearable. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. society is changing, the way of life in the european union is changing, but the european commission has simply turned a blind eye. it's hard to understand, and unfortunately it's a re-cast. for those who do not know what that is, it means that the european parliament can only amend the articles which the european commission has also amended. that means that we were not allowed to table amendments on the scope of the directive. we have not been able to ensure that this very law is extended to registered partnerships. and that is, i think, very backward, very backward from the european commission. and look at your own numbers. look at the eurostat figures, which are collected by the european commission: there are fewer and fewer marriages. more and more people are living in registered partnerships. why should these people who choose to enter into a registered partnership not have the same rights, the same access to the same opportunities as spouses? why are people who in 19 countries of the european union already have the right to a registered partnership and in many cases are even recognized for adoption excluded from this very good right? that is why i ask the european commission: why have you not included registered partnerships in your proposal for brussels ii? does the european commission not see a need for regulation of registered partnerships in relation to brussels iia? does the european commission not consider that the exclusion of registered partnerships is discriminatory? i say: yes, that is discrimination, and you are the guardian of the european union's treaties. in the treaties, non-discrimination is one of the most important points we discuss again and again. does the european commission intend to make up for this failure to delimit registered partnerships in the foreseeable future? if not, why? if so, when? because that is also an important question, and unfortunately a great opportunity was missed. i am also very much looking forward to the comments of my colleagues on the right of this european parliament, who have tried to the last to prevent this request to the european commission from being put to the plenary. and i find this unbearable: why don't you accept that people who have chosen to be in registered partnerships don't have the same rights, even though it's already the case in our society. the commissioner is considered to be one of the progressives in the field of digitalisation, one of the open-minded ones, one who says: yes, we must adapt our social order to the conditions of today. i am very much looking forward to your answer to this question, because what we are seeing in this matter is simply backward and unacceptable.
mr president, i must say that, unfortunately, still today, not all member states of the european union have introduced equal marriage for same—sex couples, and it’s true that we are not to legislate on this. but until the time comes when we have full equality between same-sex couples and couples of different sexes, civil partnerships and registered partnerships should be treated as equal in european union legislation. mr commissioner, none of the arguments that you have given now rule out including registered partnerships in this legislation. actually, the only real argument that i can see that is on the table right now is that the commission is backing off vis-à-vis right-wing governments who do not want registered partnerships to be included, and i can only agree with the colleagues speaking about this. we stand up for the rule of law, we stand up for equality, we stand up for freedom in this european union. now would be the time for the commission to actually show this commitment in real terms. so introduce registered partnerships, because they should be equal, because all citizens deserve the same rights.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very pleased that it has put the issue of plant closures and relocations of multinational companies on the agenda. finally, i should like to add that a similar request by my group was rejected by the majority of the house back in january. so let's discuss the example of embraco. we could just as well talk about the coca-cola, siemens, opel, bombardier, caterpillar and whatever they are. the principle is basically the same: profitable plants are often closed by multinational companies to increase profits at the expense of workers. the workers are being thrown out of the workforce and the regions are being deprived of their livelihoods. the only thing is, the cashier rings, and after the multis, the flood. that is why we on the left are calling for a ban on mass layoffs in profitable companies. we also demand that companies have to repay public subsidies in the event of plant closures. both measures should cool down the desire of multinationals to make a profit at the expense of the workers and the prospects of entire european regions.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. as an official candidate country, turkey will receive financial support to promote political, economic and civil society reforms, with at least eur 9 billion over the period 2007-2020. the debate today is about the current alleged misuse of eu funds by the turkish government. we are not talking here about the acquisition of equipment to secure the external borders, but rather about the inhuman use of force against refugees on the turkish-syrian border. we need a full investigation and investigation so that the credibility is not called into question. the case highlights another fundamental problem: eu accession aid to candidate countries continues to flow even after the process has already been de facto frozen. this dependence on formal accession status needs to be changed. if a country like turkey abandons the path of european values, it must be possible to reduce or eliminate funds. this is also a question of credibility.
thank you, commissioner. i am sure that my colleagues, if they have evidence, will pass it on to you. the debate is closed.
the next item is the debate on the report by linda mcavan and dubravka šuica, on behalf of the committee on development and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on the implementation of the joint working document (swd(2015) 0182) on 'gender equality and the empowerment of women: changing the lives of girls and women through eu external relations (20162020) ' (a8-0167/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 31 may 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mr eider gardiazabal rubial, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the implementation of the eu youth strategy (2017/2259 (ini)) (a8-0162/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 31 may 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs frédérique ries, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the implementation of the ecodesign directive (2009/125/ec) (2017/2087(ini)) (a8-0165/2018).
the commission is not prepared to accept this. you have five minutes now and one minute at the end. they split it up like this. and now you've spoken for more than five and a half minutes. of course, if you want to completely forgo speaking at the end, you are welcome to continue. is that so? do you want to use your six minutes to the fullest? there you go.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i see you've worked out your last minute here, too.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, the implementation of the ecodesign directive has been delayed, and the commission has therefore provided very little or no support to the member states in meeting these requirements. consumers, households and the environment are the first to pay the price. member states and companies must be given more resources to meet the dual requirement of manufacturing quality and environmental and health quality in product design. a qualitative leap will result from increased conformity of products available on the european market and should stem the arrival of non-compliant products, especially from asia. for smartphones and information and communication technologies, the urgency is to reduce our dependence on rare earths and metals. eco-design can help us do this. i will therefore support and vote in favour of this balanced report, which complements other crucial issues, but also and above all because it will make it possible to consider a more frugal and environmentally friendly consumption.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i was recently in a children's theater: pippi longstocking really beautiful. the children were nervously standing in the spotlight on the school stage. keyword lighting the way we are already on a topic that is becoming important in the wake of the ecodesign directive. stage lighting for professionals: light according to en60598217. stage lights put art and culture in the right light sparkling, colourful, dynamic. we cannot subject all this to a vague energy-saving dictate. we must not, by unnecessarily restricting the light of art, turn the spotlight off. and we shouldn't do that because we're overburdening small stages, associations and municipal bodies. it's true, no one has to take old lamps off the sidewalks because of the directive. yet, whenever they change individual lights, the entire system is thrown out of balance optically. there are lots of lights and effects that wouldn't exist under the new rule. commissioner cañete, let us find a way to save the spotlight, not just for the children. even seniors like the spotlight.
mrs ries, you have certainly used up your six minutes at the beginning of the debate, but i have decided to give you another thirty seconds to conclude the debate. please, please, please.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, thursday 31 may 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to add a few additional remarks to those made by my colleague, mr wałęsa, who is the coordinator. firstly, precarious employment, which is a matter of course, i might say, otherwise we would not have the petitions in the committee on petitions that we have. secondly, is there a need for action? yes, action is needed! so what is the real problem? the real problem is that we have to be careful that we don't end up wanting too much. it's basically about the problem of resolving the apparent conflict between fairness and freedom of contract, and i think we can resolve that conflict, because for me there's always a line between decent and indecent. it is precisely this frontier that we must define from a european point of view, and that is why i ask my colleagues to concentrate on this important task. we sometimes want too much and we are not making the european union better by adopting things here that are not really feasible in the member states. that is why we are working together to dismantle these precarious, indecent working conditions, to bring some order to the system and, of course, not to kill the freedom of contract.
a writer. the commission is not our relations with iran are particularly strained by the us withdrawal from the nuclear agreement. we must do everything we can to ensure that this treaty remains in force, so that it prevents nuclear armament in the whole region. but that cannot mean that we abandon our principles. of course, human rights are of particular importance to us. we will adopt a resolution today asking iran to review or annul the sentences against persons who have dual nationality - eu and iranian. it must be possible, even in this difficult situation. because it is among friends that one can express wishes and requests. anything else would be a sign of a lack of trust. our iranian partners know that we have completely different views on certain matters, particularly the judiciary. we have fought for our beliefs for centuries. we can't back out of this. i therefore warmly urge the iranian authorities to allow the four persons named in the resolutions to return to europe. this is particularly true of dr ahmadreza djalali.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the way iran deals with dual nationals, the so-called eu iranians, is a huge scandal. as we now know, there are many cases where people are imprisoned, tortured, threatened with death, without any legal representation. we must be clear that this is a violation of human and civil rights. the european union is of course on the side of iran in the anti-nuclear issue and supports it because it must be about nuclear disarmament in the region, but we must not make the massive violation of human rights a secondary issue. we therefore call on mrs mogherini to act immediately. first of all, we must determine how many people are really affected by this and find ways of finally releasing these prisoners. the eu must ensure that its citizens are safe, wherever they are. if iran wants to establish normal relations with the eu - economic contacts for example - then the security of our citizens must also be guaranteed. you can't have one without the other. the brutal and human rights-abusing justice system in iran must be ended. the human rights dialogue with iran needs consequences we will not let up.
a writer. the commission is not since mid-may, seven women and four men have been arrested in saudi arabia for their work on women's rights. four of the women were released a few days ago. they have campaigned against the extreme discrimination against women and called for the abolition of the ban on women driving, which is now due to be lifted on 24 june by a royal decree. women in saudi arabia continue to be denied basic human rights. they are dependent on the consent of a male guardian to travel, work or marry. the cautious reforms of recent months have so far been a showcase policy. the recent arrests are an expression of the growing repression against critics and are totally unacceptable. the activists must be released immediately and unconditionally. it is shameful that the eu's foreign affairs representative, mogherini, has not yet publicly called for their release. if king mohammed bin salman is serious about his announced reforms, all imprisoned human rights defenders must be released immediately. the sakharov prize winner raif badawi, who was sentenced to 10 years, is also among them. the european car companies are also benefiting from the lifting of the ban on women driving in saudi arabia. i demand that they too make a clear and consistent statement for the rights of their future clients.
a writer. the commission is not this month, the international community was shocked by the fate of noura hussein hamad, a young woman from sudan. forced by her parents to marry a man she did not love as a minor, she was repeatedly raped by her husband and his relatives. in self-defense, she fatally wounded the man, after which a court in omdurman sentenced her to death because so the justification there is no rape in marriage. this verdict and what happened to noura sheds a bright light on the situation of many girls and young women in sudan, but also in many other countries where forced marriage and violence against women in the family are commonplace and a more than questionable jurisprudence covers this as well. it is our duty to demand justice, respect for the dignity of noura hussein hamad and the abolition of the death sentence. sudan receives a lot of eu aid despite a questionable and repressive regime. we should also demand that the sudanese authorities respect universal human rights.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i was asked on german television what would happen if italy were unable to pay its debts. i answered correctly: if italy is no longer able to pay, then the troika - as is the custom in the eurozone - would have to take care of it. (interruptions and disturbances) we have just been pleased to see that the european court of justice is strengthening freedom of expression. i hope that's true for everyone in this house. the wording chosen by the chairman of the committee was not my own. there are probably some translation problems. i was merely pointing out what the mechanism is, what it has been in the past. and i think if you read that in the original language, it's not as bad as it was portrayed in italy.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we're talking about a pretty incredible story today. there have been cases of development workers sexually exploiting refugees - so it's the staff of ngos. it's about good people who have turned out to be the opposite of that. the first and foremost concern is the protection orders which the aid workers have failed to comply with. we deeply regret what has happened to the victims. i have faith in the justice system that the perpetrators will be held accountable and that justice will be done to the victims. but we must also draw political consequences, including for the fundamental cooperation with ngos. because the ngos have to take responsibility for the abusive behavior of their staff. oxfam must face the consequences of its failure to select and monitor its staff. the cooperation with osfam cannot therefore continue in the same way; the commission is also called upon to do so. the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the new financial perspective. we know that of every euro of donations and development aid, only a fraction of that goes to the people who really need it. between the source of the money and the recipients, a variety of actors have been crowded in - bureaucrats, ngos and development workers, as well as a kleptocratic political class found in many african countries. unfortunately, the wrong people are pocketing development aid. the solution is not more money, nor is it government funding of ngos. the right way is a new and better trade policy. we must stop subsidizing our agricultural sector and instead open it up more to products from developing countries. too few in this house want to get involved. it's the only way. it is also the only way to eliminate the causes of flight that are so much talked about here.
a writer. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. we're here to discuss my big request for international family day. the commissioners responsible for this policy, jourová and timmermans, will not be taking part in this debate. mr timmermans may be recovering from christopher street day in brussels. instead, the selmayr commission sends the commissioner for disaster management to read an official response. the eu has been silent on the un's international day of families. all people of good will realize that the eu does not value the family based on marriage between a man and a woman, but on the mysterious international day against homophobia, transphobia and biphobia, the rainbow flag of gender ideologues flew over the eu buildings. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. human resources departments have made a tremendous effort to provide transsexual eurocrats with a place to work. these are the eu's priorities in managing values and standards. what the eu is doing for marriage and the family is to make it easier for binational couples to divorce, to demand the boundless diversity of marriage for all, even where no one wants to, to explicitly limit women's value creation to the formalized labour market, and to allow children to be raised in gender-neutral and identity-less full-time care. when will the selmayr commission declare surrogacy a cross-border service? this european union is implementing all the communist recipes that karl marx recommended for the destruction of functioning families. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the results of our roll-call vote prove that. i see this as a major cause of the self-inflicted self-abnegation of the union. i would therefore like to express my special thanks to my slovak colleague, anna záborská, who, as chair of the family intergroup, has worked tirelessly to ensure that europe does not one day abolish itself because of wrong political priorities.
i have to say, madam president, i have, if you will, accidentally got into the debate. i could also out myself father, grandfather, several children. i wish we could have a debate about family at a better time. that would be the first point. because there's a lot to discuss, and there's also some disadvantages. i also admit that in democracy, sometimes it is like this: you always have to strike a balance between the interests of the majority and the interests of the minority. sometimes it doesn't work right. we have repeatedly had problems in germany too, which demonstrate the disadvantage of families, and that is true. the commission has also been asked to give the relevant committees the task of dealing with the problem in greater depth. secondly, i was a little annoyed by the fact that i had to go through a socialist education and that there are probably different ways of interpreting the classics - as the previous speaker, mr meuthen, did. so, it was always said in socialism that the family is the smallest unit of society, it must be nurtured and cared for. there were contradictions there too. my second request is that we should not misuse the concept of family for ideological and political reasons.
i have to say, madam president, i was once a member of the family party, i myself was a father of up to seven children for ten years and i have had a lot of joy in these ten years, during which i could also be there for the children. if we're arguing here, we should be arguing politically and not too emotionally. there is a lot of arguing and making money here in parliament, which makes life difficult for parents. that's not justice. and if we strengthen other sides and weaken parents, then it's anti-family policy. i hope that in future politics we will always pay attention to the fact that there is a generational justice - that is family policy - that the educational achievements of parents, mainly mothers, are recognized. it is not possible that mothers of more and more children should receive a smaller and smaller pension. there's something wrong with the system. we really need an educational salary that is commensurate with the money that others receive for the same service in kindergarten, in the nursery and in other occupations that are basically equivalent to parental service, for example in the children's home. we don't just need a wife split, we need a family split where the children are included. we need a family franchise one right, one person, one vote. and if we want to eliminate the risk of child poverty, we also need to ensure that parents are consistently involved. they are also taxed less. they have to pay a lot of taxes because they always pay vat for the children and thus fill the tax bag of the respective state. solidarity is needed here. and for that, thank you. a minute is not enough. but i hope that in the future we will really always have the families on board with the political interests.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i guess we are all still under the impression of the g7 controversial messages, decisions and developments, and therefore i think we should stick to the historical rules, to the facts. therefore, i would propose, on behalf of our group, that we change the title of the debate on tuesday to the new version. i will read it out: ‘georgia’s breakaway regions ten years after the war with russia’. this is much closer to the facts which happened – and what are the facts? how we can deal with the responsibility of the european union in contributing to finding solutions to this very complicated and controversial situation should be the matter of the debate.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i have a loud voice, but i'd still appreciate it if the noise was a little less. (the president declared the chamber silent) today, ten years after the financial crisis and five years after the adoption of emir, the european market infrastructure regulation, we are discussing proposals made by the commission to adapt this important instrument for managing the financial crisis and mitigating risks to the needs and experience of recent years. emir has been in force since 2012. the last international agreement with the us based on the dodd-frank act entered into force on 17 february 2017, so we have equivalent regulations comparable worldwide. the adjustment is due to experience, particularly with smaller market players, non-financial market players, who of course have a much lower risk than the large players in the market, and that is why we have simplified the reporting requirements. the commission has proposed this, we have modified it somewhat. we have put a clear liability on the reporting obligations. we want to give a wide margin to small non-financial counterparties and we have tried to iron out the inconsistencies of the first regulation. the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy adopted the proposal on the basis of the compromise reached with the other groups by 46 votes to 5, with 4 abstentions. this is a very good basis for negotiations with the council after parliament has voted. i would also like to thank the three council presidencies at the same time: the estonian one, which started to consider the proposal relatively early, the bulgarian one, which developed it further, and we will be able to conclude the negotiations, i hope, in a few rounds with the austrian council presidency and thus adopt a modern set of rules which will significantly improve risk reduction in the area of derivatives. as a reminder , in 2009 the nominal value of global derivatives was $ 720 trillion . that was exactly 12 times the gdp of the world's 7.5 billion people at the time. the volume has decreased slightly, but above all the risk values have improved significantly. we have made regulations and proposals which go beyond those of the commission which the committee has approved. we have also discussed a very controversial point in parliament, which we will also continue to discuss with the council: the extension of the exemption from the clearing obligation for pension funds which use otc derivatives to reduce investment risks. we have now extended the derogation four times, the commission has proposed three years again and finally two years. if you consider that the volume of pension funds in the european union is at least 3.6 million euros, that is a huge amount. i am particularly grateful to the commissioner, vice-president dombrovskis, for having set up a round table on this issue, a round table to discuss the issue and to propose solutions. and parliament wants to extend these deadlines, not to make a permanent exception. and for that, mr dombrovskis, we are very grateful. i read the minutes of the first round, and there the stakeholders also said: yes, we believe that a solution is feasible.i would like to thank all those involved - the shadow rapporteurs, the commission, the market players - for their good contributions. i hope that this amendment can be adopted by a clear vote in the plenary tomorrow.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, werner langen, and all shadow rapporteurs for the excellent spirit of cooperation that produced a good report, building on a sensible commission proposal to streamline emir in a number of areas. it has been our priority, in working on this file, to safeguard financial stability and to expand central clearing, while allowing some simplification in areas where reduction of requirements has little influence on systemic risk and helps to reduce cost. a notable improvement is the introduction of a specific clearing threshold for financial counterparties. however, perhaps most notable in this report – and it has been mentioned by previous speakers – are the credible arrangements to bring pension funds into the scope of the clearing obligation somewhat sooner than was envisaged, against the backdrop of a number of extensions that have already taken place. here i am particularly grateful to the vice—president for having invited me, among others, to the round table that you organised with stakeholders – not least in view of the realism of the two-plus-one solution that we are envisaging. so i am confident that it is absolutely possible to implement the necessary steps, especially for bigger pension funds, within the timeframes that we have put forward. indeed, on 16 may a large majority in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) voted for those particular deadlines. this measure stands to improve financial stability – that is bringing in pension funds and the safety of pensions – while giving all stakeholders enough time to prepare. i am looking forward to continuing our work in the forthcoming trialogues and would be delighted if this house were to vote with a large majority to enter into interinstitutional negotiations.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is always a pleasure to speak after mr coburn, because his plain language is impressive but far from substantive. the core objective of emir is to strengthen the stability of financial markets in the eu through enhanced reporting and transparency requirements. the eu commission's report concluded that there is a need to remove high barriers, especially for non-financial counterparties. the reform proposals are aimed at improving the use of funds and making it as efficient as possible. a large number of industrial and financial enterprises are directly affected by emir. the hedging of business risks by reporting obligations entails costs. yes, but it is right to reduce it where financial stability is not weakened, in order to avoid excessive additional costs, such as double the majority. she should stay with the financial company. we have voted by a large majority in favour of the excellent report by my colleague, mr werner langen. i am very grateful to him for allowing us to debate this today, mr werner, before such negotiations are conducted in trilogue. that is what i call the absolute possibility of democratic participation. it proposes to support the significant improvements in reporting requirements, in risk prevention, in cutting red tape. the aspect of risk assessment of pension funds, which has not been regulated so far, is also addressed - its keyword was 'round table', really as a great opportunity for joint results. we are in favour of these steps towards a modern set of rules for greater stability in the financial markets. mr werner, thank you very much for a report which has a very good chance of winning the support of a large majority.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, we have done important work to make the derivatives market safe and efficient, and this file continues our work. i would like to use this opportunity to thank the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, mr werner langen, and the shadow rapporteurs, but also the committee chair, mr roberto gualtieri, for their excellent work on this file. i very much look forward to working further on this file and i would finish by reiterating the hope expressed by werner langen that we will be able to conclude this file after a few rounds within the austrian presidency.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not i would also like to thank all the speakers for their positive contributions. we have been discussing this with the commission and the staff since 2010. it was intense, it was controversial, it was more or less the benchmark, the european system worldwide. and now, after five years of experience, we are in a position to adjust that. this is actually the right way to save costs, as the commissioner said, to achieve simplification, to cut red tape and to re-weight the risk assessment for smaller market players. that's the main thing. the second important issue is the pension funds. i looked it up again . the largest share of otc derivatives is held by pension funds in italy, with eur 1.8 trillion, followed by the netherlands with eur 1.2 trillion, and then several other member states with smaller amounts. overall, the commission has made proposals, not only in the context of the refit programme, but also on location policy - mrs hübner's report, which is already under negotiation - and we have strengthened supervision by proposing to involve esma more and involve the ecb. i hope that we can conclude this package relatively quickly, so that there are no unregulated transitional periods, as mr ježek has said. i would like to thank you very much for that. i think it is and was right that we should debate and, in effect, vote on such an important issue of financial regulation not only in committee but also in plenary, so that every member has the opportunity to be informed and to participate in the internal deliberations. thank you all!
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. they all fly, as members of this house, probably much more frequently than the average eu citizen. but have you ever wondered how fit and healthy or rested the pilot and crew are? how many hours of flight time can the pilot have, or whether he still has to pay for his training, whether he is tired or sick? the fact that we are more relaxed than ever before when we board an airplane also has to do with the fact that flying has never been safer than it is today. and nowhere is it safer than here in the eu. so it's worth looking behind the scenes from time to time and making sure that the level of security and service we enjoy is not taken for granted. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. this leads to ever worse services in the long run, and we are convinced that this is not good for security. because security is a difficult and detailed job, and not just in the technical field. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of aircraft is not compromised by the lack of safety standards. in order to counter the worrying trend of social dumping, we have implemented article 76a of the new easa regulation. easa will now have the opportunity to look at windy business structures where no one can understand who is really in charge, from the point of view of clear responsibility. the same is true of employment models where pilots are pressured to fly all the time and cut costs. i am also convinced that we have set the right course for our aviation. we need more international presence from easa to improve security worldwide. it is a very important matter, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. if we vote on this tomorrow - and we should all be in favour of this - we will have a good new regulation for the safety of european airspace. easa has done very good work before and now it has really got an updated task, which is also partly extended. i would just like to mention five points. one of the things - this is only a small detail, but it was important to me - is that there are exceptions in the annex as well: for single-seaters up to 300 kilograms, for two-seaters up to 450 kilograms, so that the bureaucratic burden is also partly reduced. but most importantly, we have a regulation for drones -- that's very crucial. there are more and more unmanned aerial vehicles, they must be registered now. so this has to be nationally shared, it has to be available digitally -- very, very important. we are trying to reduce the bureaucratic burden, it's a small thing. it is also very important that the military overflight zones are regulated. and for me, as a german, it is very important after the germanwings plane crash: it is not possible for a pilot to be tired of life and drag other people to their deaths. we have also now put in place measures to prevent this from happening in the future. and that is why i look forward to the vote tomorrow, which will be positive.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am glad we are meeting today to finalise the adoption of the regulation on monitoring and reporting of co2 emissions from heavy-duty vehicles. this is the first piece of legislation on co2 emissions from lorries, buses and coaches. a swift agreement on this regulation has been possible, thanks to the constructive efforts and spirit of compromise of the negotiators from both institutions. the agreement strikes a good balance between the need for transparency and the need to protect commercially-sensitive data, ensuring a robust and reliable monitoring and reporting system. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr zoffoli, and his team and congratulate them on the quick result. this regulation is a crucial instrument to close the current knowledge gap on the co2 emissions and fuel consumption from heavy-duty vehicles put on the european union market. the information made available with the publication of the reported data will be especially important for transport operators. in addition, the regulation paves the way for the co2 emissions standards for lorries proposed by the commission last month, which will need to rely on the data reported for its compliance processes. the support and steering of the rapporteur, mr zoffoli, as well as the active engagement of all shadow rapporteurs really paved the way to this good result. the european parliament has strongly contributed to the final shape of the legal text. i would like to offer you two major examples: the introduction of administrative fines if manufacturers do not report the data or if the data reported deviates from their type-approval values, and the extension of the monitoring system to the results of future on-road verification tests. the commission invites you to support this motion and continue the work with a swift negotiation of the co2 emissions standards for lorries already on the table at both the european parliament and the council.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank mr zoffoli and all those who have helped to bring this about. for our group, it was christofer fjellner, who unfortunately has been excused today. ladies and gentlemen, we are now in agreement. this was not the case at the vote in committee and also at the first reading in plenary. the epp group was dissatisfied because the regulations did not take sufficient account of the protection of intellectual property. we were concerned that, following the mandate of the environment committee, the data would then find its way into the hands of other manufacturers and that these other manufacturers outside europe, for example in china, would take advantage of it. this cannot be the purpose of european legislation, that we support competition in china and elsewhere. fortunately, this was then changed by the council in the trilogue, and that is why we can agree. the goal is important. the paris agreement on climate change requires us to use all our potential. it is not just cars and light commercial vehicles that have them, but also heavy commercial vehicles. we shall see, for example, in the debate on legislation - particularly in the dalli report and the other reports - that the 40% target is already quite ambitious when it comes to implementation. that is why we must think carefully and see how we can get there. we are not talking about a reduction in the volume of goods, but about a reduction in the volume of goods transported. the commission has already submitted its draft report on light commercial vehicles and cars. the same criterion applies regardless of the size of the car or the type of goods it is transporting. the weight criterion is deleted without replacement. but it cannot be that when you transport a family of six, you have the same reduction targets as when you only transport a two-seater. we must make it clearer so that we can reach agreement on this procedure a little earlier than after the negotiations with the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in fact, here in the european parliament we ask ourselves almost daily how we as the european union are going to achieve the paris climate targets. we know how important it will be to meet the paris targets, and unlike our transatlantic partners, we are convinced that this agreement will ensure that we in europe will do our fair share in reducing greenhouse gases. but that also means that we have to look at what greenhouse gas emissions are being emitted in the trucking sector. we know that 5% of all greenhouse gas emissions in europe come from the commercial vehicle sector, and that is why nobody can explain - not to the citizens, but also not to the companies that buy trucks - that co2 emissions have not yet been monitored, have not yet been certified. it is therefore time and it is right - and i should also like to thank my colleague mr damiano for having conducted these negotiations so well - that we finally have a proposal on the table which will ensure that we have transparency in this very important area. it is good that we have negotiated sanctions into this paper so that we can also sanction manufacturers who do not comply with the transparency obligations, because we are all working day by day to reduce co2 emissions, and the manufacturers of heavy trucks must do the same. it is also important that we give truck buyers the opportunity to base their buying decision on how much co2 a truck emits. because we still see that lorry traffic within the european union is increasing, that rail freight traffic is decreasing, even though rail traffic would be much more climate friendly. in this respect, this rule, this proposal is also an approach to creating more transparency and more fairness in the market and to getting more goods from the road to the rail. one last point: we all know that manufacturers of internal combustion engines tend to circumvent our guidelines. so it's a big success, an important step, that we've introduced tests that measure real emissions. i think that this package is a good and important step for the citizens.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and madam commissioner! first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr van miert. it's become a really good law. i could join you in saying that i agree with you. that is not the point, i am supposed to give my own speech. it is true that even if only 5% of co2 emissions are from trucks and heavy goods vehicles, 25% are from road transport, and we urgently need to improve. we also need a lot of transport, because consumers want to buy products that need to be transported. but it really can't be that we didn't have standards yet. so it's unlikely that it's important that we actually have standards now for these emissions and for measuring efficiency for the first time. it's crazy, the u.s., china -- even china -- japan, canada -- they all have it, and we don't yet. now we're measuring that in real-world traffic. and it's also a very important story that we're doing this now and not somewhere in the lab. and we're releasing the data -- it's very important to me that we protect sensitive data and intellectual property. but overall, we are moving in a very good direction for the carbonisation of transport. what we have now is good for the environment, good for transparency and it's going to take us further.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it's about the modernization of education! i should like to thank the honourable member for her excellent report, knowing full well that education policy is a national, and for us in germany even a regional, matter. and that's where she's staying. i would like to make a marginal note to all those colleagues on the left and the liberals who are now again thinking that europe can have it all. i say to them: "schuster, stay by your leashes!" and thank you to all the interpreters whose excellent education makes it possible to interpret this winged word in twenty-three languages in a matter of seconds. thank you very much! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is not necessarily the reality in european schools. modern education, including digital education, only works within the given framework. and then there's the fact that machines alone don't make education. let's take our teachers, let's educate them, let's not overwhelm them with digital-doro ideas that see every janitor as a programmer and prefer to take a flying taxi to school. let's keep our feet on the ground. i say that on behalf of all the mayors here. ideas cost nothing, but their implementation is very good! the municipalities must shoulder this responsibility and for this they need the full support of the federal, state and european authorities.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, in june, leaders will take a strategic look at several important issues that will affect europe in the coming years. a first topic is how, in today’s world, we as europeans do more for our own security. the european council will take stock of progress in a number of areas where we are deepening cooperation in security and defence. the agreement we reached together on the european defence industrial development programme will allow the european union to fund, for the first time, a programme on defence capabilities. we are also in favour of making headway on improving military mobility, and working to strengthen our resilience to chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear-related risks and our capabilities to address hybrid threats. the european council will also assess progress in the field of civilian csdp, and leaders will provide further guidance on pesco and our important cooperation with nato. as you know, migration is also on the agenda. much has been achieved over the past years in terms of strengthening our overall migration policy, with tangible results on the ground. there is broad agreement on most elements of our migration policy, including better protecting our external borders and controlling illegal migration. as the presidency, we have worked diligently on the reform of the common european asylum system to help bridge differences in approaches and develop concrete solutions. intensive negotiations have taken place in the council on the various proposals of this package. the dublin reform remains difficult, but in most other files good progress has been made. the european council will now look at the broader picture. to this end, president tusk is currently conducting consultations with his peers. the june european council will also be the opportunity to spell out our vision for an innovative and digital europe in the years ahead, following the leaders’ debate in sofia. technology-driven innovation is increasingly shaping our lives. the pace and scope of change that the next waves of innovation will bring are unprecedented. to play an active part in this global transformation, we in europe need to do better when it comes to the way we generate ideas, turn them into business and help businesses grow on the global stage. we need to deepen europe’s innovation capability and nurture, in particular, breakthrough and disruptive innovation. as we reinvent the way we do things, we should also stay true to ourselves and to our values. this is not only true with respect to innovation, but also in relation to our digital endeavours. by creating an environment where innovation can thrive while guaranteeing high standards for the protection of users, we will foster high levels of trust in technology. the next multiannual financial framework is a key tool to shape our common future. the european council will discuss the future handling of the proposals concerning the mff, including the timeline. turning to jobs and growth, the european council will conclude the european semester for 2018. it will also take stock of the leaders’ discussion on taxation held in march under the leaders’ agenda process. the european council will also have the opportunity to address international developments, including the latest trade issues. as you know, the european council is also expected formally to adopt the decision on the composition of the european parliament, on which you will be voting tomorrow. finally, the european council, in terms of article 50, will meet on the next day to review the state of the negotiations with the united kingdom. in the margins, the euro summit will meet in an inclusive format. it will discuss measures on the banking union and to further develop the european stability mechanism, and will provide additional guidance on the way forward.
firstvice-president of the commission. – mr president, it’s an honour to address this house, this time on behalf of president juncker, who is returning from g7 duty in canada. i think i would be remiss if i did not start with what happened in charlevoix. i’m not one to declare that the rules-based international system so carefully built up after the second world war is now collapsing before our very eyes. however, it is the first time since 1945 that an american president has not seen it as an american strategic interest to work hard to ensure a vibrant and unified europe and a robust transatlantic relationship. this means that the eu needs to take its destiny more into its own hands and we should be confident about our ability to do so, because our foundations are strong. our union is built upon member states that voluntarily and democratically decided to link their destinies and shape the future together. the basis for the shared destiny is a tripod of democracy, the rule of law and the respect for human rights. this is how one creates unity between big and small, how one creates unity in full respect of our diversity. it is in turn our unity that gives us strength globally to pursue better and more sustainable standards for everyone; to defend global trading rules; to boldly address climate change; to protect our citizens against geopolitical and/or geoeconomic challenges, and to better grasp the opportunities that globalisation has to offer. and so, this month’s european council comes at an auspicious time, and it is a good opportunity to show political will, decisiveness and unity. but we should look beyond the daily twitter feed and also keep our eyes on the ball with regard to the work that lies ahead of us. last december, leaders agreed to come back to a number of issues in march. in march, they agreed to come back to the same issues in june. while important decisions take time, we cannot postpone decisions indefinitely. the situation in the mediterranean is a stark reminder that we cannot wish problems away. no fence is high enough and no sea is wide enough to render our countries immune to the greatest pull factor there is – the freedom, the prosperity and the stability of our union. in recent months, under the guidance of the bulgarian presidency, the european union has shown what is possible when we are united and committed to finding european solutions. we agreed, for instance, on the difficult issue of the posted workers directive, thanks in large part to this house. equal pay for equal work in the same place will now become a reality for all europeans. we made substantial progress on our digital single market with regard to the abolition of roaming and on clarifying and strengthening audiovisual media services or telecoms rules. with regard to brexit too, the eu is united. our goal is to ensure we, together with our british partners, do as little harm as possible to either side and to work together towards an orderly process in the interest of all citizens in the eu and in the united kingdom. the european council of june will take stock on a number of issues, in particular the question of ireland and northern ireland, as well as the future relationship between the uk and the eu. we still have three more weeks to go, and it is important to use this time to achieve real progress in the interests of all. parliament, council and commission are working together to deliver. in the next months, we also have to deliver on the legislative files we identified as our common priorities under the two joint declarations. from plastics to migration, from energy to transport, from the european solidarity corps to the european citizens’ initiative. we’ve promised this to the european citizens before the next elections. it will be our collective achievement. the joint declarations guide our work, so let’s stick to our commitments. as we approach the june european council, this then is the spirit and the approach that all leaders must take. united by our values, linked by our interests and concerted in our actions. das gilt auch für die wirtschafts- und währungsunion. denn je stärker diese ist, umso mehr verleiht sie der union als ganzes kraft, was sich wiederum positiv auf den lebensstandard der europäerinnen und europäer auswirkt. deshalb ist es unsere pflicht, den euro zu stärken. die kommission hat bereits im dezember ein umfassendes paket vorgelegt, um unserer gemeinschaftswährung zusätzliche stärke und handlungsfähigkeit zu verleihen. wir haben außerdem vor wenigen wochen konkrete haushaltsinstrumente vorgeschlagen, um reformen zu fördern und investitionen im euro-raum selbst in zeiten asymmetrischer schocks zu gewährleisten. dass die mitgliedstaaten die vorschläge der kommission diskutieren, ist ein erster wichtiger schritt. doch es reicht nicht, wenn wir lediglich feststellen, was notwendig und geboten ist. wir haben zwar bereits fortschritte gemacht und lehren aus der krise gezogen – sei es bei der reduzierung notleidender kredite im europäischen bankensektor, beim aufbau der kapitalmarktunion oder bei der einigung im ecofin-rat im mai, als wir maßnahmen ergriffen haben, um die risiken im bankensektor weiter zu reduzieren. das war ein wichtiger schritt hin zur vollendung der bankenunion. der gipfel im juni – die leaders' agenda – ist der moment, die ideen und den politischen willen endlich auch in konkrete entscheidungen und taten umzusetzen. wir müssen uns endlich darauf einigen, dass der europäische stabilitätsmechanismus die letztsicherung für den einheitlichen abwicklungsfonds übernehmen kann. und dafür müssen wir endlich auch beim einheitlichen europäischen einlagensicherungssystem weiterkommen, das nicht nur über nacht aufgebaut werden kann, sondern für das vorbereitungen, vorbedingungen zu erfüllen sind. gestatten sie mir, auch den mehrjährigen finanzrahmen zu erwähnen. ich glaube, dass wir uns vor den nächsten wahlen unbedingt einigen müssen. en ce qui concerne la gestion des migrations, la situation n’est en rien comparable à ce qu’elle était il y a trois ans, mais ici également, nous avons encore du travail à faire pour compléter la mise en place d’une politique migratoire fondée sur la responsabilité et la solidarité, tout en assurant une meilleure protection de nos frontières extérieures. les négociations ont déjà bien avancé sur une bonne partie des éléments proposés par la commission pour réformer notre régime d’asile européen commun, notamment sur l’harmonisation des conditions d’accueil et les conditions standard de protection ainsi que sur un cadre commun de réinstallation pour renforcer les voies d’entrées légales. nous avons également accompli des progrès sur le renforcement d’eurodac – la base de données de l’union européenne contenant les empreintes digitales des demandeurs d’asile – et nous avons déjà un accord politique sur le renforcement de l’agent de l’union européenne pour l’asie. le parlement s’est engagé dans toutes ces négociations avec détermination et a réussi à améliorer la qualité du texte et je voudrais saluer les efforts considérables accomplis par la présidence bulgare dans ce domaine. mais pour finaliser un accord sur l’ensemble de la réforme de notre politique d’asile, il faut maintenant trouver un compromis sur le mécanisme de dublin et je veux soutenir, avec tout l’appui de la commission, les propos du président du parlement à cet égard. là aussi, on peut noter des avancées, en particulier la création d’un volet préventif de ce mécanisme. prévenir la crise future est aussi important que la gestion de la crise elle-même. mais évidemment, il faut reconnaître et respecter les différentes positions et sensibilités qui existent dans nos pays sur ces questions très délicates. il est temps de résoudre ce problème. tous les éléments sont sur la table, il est temps d’agir, je suis en parfait accord avec le président du parlement européen. ainsi, la commission attend des chefs d’état et de gouvernement qu’ils se penchent sérieusement sur la question de dublin et esquissent les orientations nécessaires pour parvenir à des solutions équilibrées qui aient l’appui de tous et qui soient des solutions solides et durables fondées sur nos valeurs communes. nous risquons non seulement de perdre nos valeurs mais aussi de porter atteinte à notre humanité même si nous ne trouvons pas des solutions qui permettent de voir des personnes en crise comme des êtres humains qui ont besoin de notre aide. (applaudissements) étant donné l’importance de ce défi – existentiel, je crois, pour l’union européenne –, la commission proposera cet après-midi un renforcement ambitieux et important des moyens financiers pour soutenir notre politique commune au cours des prochaines années.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. today's debate will certainly be marked by uncertainty and instability in the face of the g7 summit. so i want to start with the good news: we are all getting the news from singapore on our mobile phones right now. if kim and trump agree that there is a great chance for a nuclear-weapon-free korea, for a korean peninsula that is nuclear-weapon-free, then that is a great success, and we should be happy that these results are there. if diplomacy works, sanctions will work. but i hope that washington recognizes that diplomacy is not only good if donald trump signs it. we have already achieved a very positive diplomatic result with the iran agreement. obama signed it then, and that was as good as the result we have now for korea. if we look at the summit, at the european council, there is again the danger that we may set ourselves big goals and perhaps end up with few results. i would therefore like to concentrate on two specific points where we as the epp group now demand clarity and results and where there is a chance of that: the first is trade issues - a subject that is of concern to many who are currently fearful of losing their jobs. europe must give the european commission full backing. the customs duties on aluminium and steel were imposed without cause. and that is why concerted countermeasures, as the commission has proposed, are the right way forward. we expect the council to give it its full support. and we also think that the conversation is right. if jean-claude juncker has now been given the task of going to washington and talking about a world without tariffs, then that is the right approach. i would add that the problems with america are also creating a number of opportunities for us europeans at the moment. the thing is, we've seen in canada, it's six to one. so we have many partners who are still advocating for rules-based trade. we should talk to them, enter into discussions with them and conclude the agreements with japan, mexico and mercosur as soon as possible, which are now realistic. i would like to remind you, in retrospect, that we had a lot of debate in this parliament on the ceta issue - i would like to recall this again - and we feel in the present situation how grateful we are that we are able to conclude such agreements with canada, at least with a country that is committed to our values. ceta remains for us a model for the future development of trade policy. finally, a second point, the euro debate: there is also a debate. i think we can now come to some conclusions. the european monetary fund is close at hand to give us independence from international structures in the future. the backstop is close. we will be able to involve the parliaments more with the structures now being considered. that is to say, this step should be taken, just as the step which the commission proposed in december, namely to move forward with the investment budget now. after the reforms and after the budgetary stabilization, the focus is now on investment. we should therefore act now on these two points. the back wind should give us great successes on the euro. since the start of the crisis, we have created 10 million new jobs in the euro zone and we have a growth rate of 2.5% - much higher than our american and british friends. the reform policy we have pursued so far should therefore give us the backing we need. i hope that the council will not talk about these two points but will act on them!
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this is the house of the european people and, having said that, i cannot avoid raising again and again the situation in the mediterranean sea. there is a boat in the middle of the sea. many of those people – children, pregnant women – are in a disastrous situation, not for the first time and, unfortunately, perhaps not for the last time. we have a general idea. those who disembark in one of our countries disembark in the european union. this is our principle. article 80 of this treaty speaks about responsibility and about solidarity. yes, it is true that italy has taken the lion’s share of the responsibility in the past, but – forgive me, dear colleagues, this is to mr salvini – if you need to demonstrate what you think is your strength at the expense of pregnant women and children, you have no idea how poor you are. (applause)this is a change in italian politics which is by no means defendable. and let us talk about the re—emergence of the spanish people and the spanish government. yes, pedro sanchez, thank you. you gave grace to the european union again and what you did was marvellous. this is the new style of the spanish people and of spanish politics and we appreciate that. thank you to the new government and all those who support it. but since this is not an isolated situation – and now we come to the council – no, you don’t have time to postpone the issue of migration. no you cannot stay sleeping. no, there is no excuse for not doing anything and this is one of the major issues that have to be discussed in the next european council. and this is also to mr kurz’s incoming presidency. mr kurz, ask yourself whether you are happy. are you still proud that you closed – this is one of your favourites – the balkan route without any alternative? are you still proud of your comradeship with mr orban, demonstrating it in each and every situation? no, we will not let him pass into this house of the people when he arrives in the second half of this year with a stance like that! this will not be the policy of my group, the socialists and democrats, and this will not be the policy of the european parliament, dear friends. what we have to make clear ... und das bezieht sich auch auf meine kolleginnen und kollegen der europäischen volkspartei in deutschland, lieber, verehrter kollege weber: nein, das ist nicht drin! wir können hier nicht pro-europäisch reden und zu hause mit orbán schäkern und die europäische union in einer zentralen frage ohne perspektive lassen. das werden wir nicht tolerieren! und das müssen wir auch an frau merkel adressieren: nein, frau merkel, der enthusiasmus, den sie zeigen, der enthusiasmus in lösungen der probleme – man kann nicht weiche knie kriegen, nur weil trump mit dem handelskrieg droht. der wirtschaftsminister in deutschland muss das kapieren: das reicht nicht, was da geliefert wird! und das gleiche gilt für unser engagement, mit dem wir insgesamt die europäische union stark machen müssen. auch frau merkel muss kapieren: nur eine vereinte europäische union, nur eine starke europäische union wird in der lage sein, unsere gesellschaft in eine erfolgreiche zukunft zu führen. dafür steht meine fraktion, dafür werden wir arbeiten. und wir freuen uns auf die diskussionen, die in diesem haus zu dem thema noch anstehen.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the expectations for this summit were indeed rather high. a lot of things are to be decided at the summit. the eurozone reforms have been mentioned – and this would be high time because we have been having a kind of eurozone crisis since 2010, so it is not really early – and also brexit. while this is a newer topic than 2010, it is also one with a very tight deadline just around the corner and a lot of problems to solve. then, of course, there is the migration issue that has already been addressed by many colleagues. we all know that the current dublin rules don’t work. we have been saying this for years here in parliament. we have been making proposals for years about how to fix it and it hasn’t been getting better. we all know the pictures of overcrowded camps in greece. we all know about the refugees living on the streets in italy. we all know this constant blame game between different countries – whichever it is at the moment – and it is outrageous how this is going. it is always countries trying to say that they want the lowest number of refugees possible so the only thing they can ever do is close the borders, but that is not a policy that we can carry out as the european union if we value anything of our own and if we stand at all for the human rights that we tell other countries that they should adhere to. so dublin urgently needs to be reformed. this parliament has shown how it can be done. the thing about this parliament is that we are not some sort of weird extra—territorial something parliament, but we are the same parties, the same countries, present here as are present in the council and as are going to be present at the summit. so i wonder why it is that if we – same country, same parties – can come to an agreement, why can’t the heads of state and government do that? i really don’t see any reason, except for lack of political will and a lack of will to lead somewhere, to help people and to really go to the heart of the matter. without solidarity, our common european asylum policy is bound to fail, and member states are already engaged in this vicious circle of deterrence and responsibility shifting. so yes, it is outrageous that italy cannot follow the principle – the most basic humanitarian and sea law – but also, malta has not wanted to open its port for years. we didn’t hear anything from france. so i’m really thankful to spain, but this cannot be the only solution. we also see in other countries – austria, denmark, germany – that everyone is closing their borders; everyone is settling on deterrence. so human rights have become a matter of campaigning in the european union. we are doing politics – pretty much all parties are doing politics – on the back of those most vulnerable. i think that this is totally unacceptable in a european union that is worth any of what mr timmermans mentioned before. it is also very interesting that the approaching austrian presidency has told the bulgarian presidency that ‘dublin is dead’. that is probably also quite unprecedented. on the eurozone reform – thank you for reminding us of that – it is urgent that we fix the problems there. the problems are known. there are solutions on the table and, while we greens don’t agree with all the details of what mr macron has put forward, at least there is someone who has put proposals forward. so we should finally get somewhere and the german government cannot hide any longer. they also need to get their act together, finally get real and offer something, because this is something that all member states should understand. they should not hide behind what they call their national interests. actually it is in their national interests to have a strong and functioning european union and a strong and functioning eurozone. this is something that is in all of our interests. the world is turning less and less predictable. all the member states should be so happy that they have a reliable and strong union that they are part of and a strong partnership that they are part of, but they need to do something for it and they might even need to pay euro or two for it, but i think it is worth it.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not we are talking to each other again here in the european parliament a few days before the next summit, to the commission and to the present council presidency. we can only say that it has become a formalized form, that we meet here every time, then meet again after the summit and say: we have not made any progress! i think this has something to do with the way politics is currently presented in the member states as well as in the eu institutions. we are far too little aware of what is happening in our societies, in the member states, in the eu and also outside the eu. a lot of the people are from outside of our policy offerings that we're putting out. and we allow that ultimately the whole problem, including the migration, the asylum crisis, within the european union, the inability to develop a real collective solidarity and to feel responsibility, leads us to the right, the right-wing populists, the far-right, the nationalists to roll out the red carpet and invite them, in the end, to educate people who live in poverty, to abuse them, to abuse their plight, to say ultimately: these societies are divided, and we have to defend ourselves against the idea of solidarity. i think that can and must not remain so. we have a shared responsibility here. and with regard to the ship, the aquarius: yes, thanks to spain and also - as i had heard in the meantime - to the regional government of corsica, for wanting to help here. but one thing is becoming very clear: we cannot believe that we are actually able to develop a sustainable european union policy that addresses the global problem of migration at all with just spontaneous rescue actions. we can also - and i can see differences between us - we cannot believe that in the course of the dublin negotiations we intend to set up a system of isolation which also includes the blanket rejection of asylum seekers, refugees from so-called 'safe third countries', such as the maghreb countries. we must also take note that the deals with turkey and libya are clearly still very problematic. mr verhofstadt, you mentioned a whole series of figures earlier. i would like to add one: since we have these deals, 3000 people have drowned or died in the mediterranean. it is also a matter of realistic appraisal of what we can do, what we must do, what we are obliged to do. the bulgarian presidency has tried to draw up a proposal which i also believe has not succeeded. i do not think it will work to say in a three-step process: only in certain situations can you expect other countries to be more involved or to take on more financial responsibilities. the core problem will remain. are the member states prepared to take in a minimum number of refugees together and to act together in solidarity in crisis situations? that must be our point! we'll fight for that! we call on all to do so! we need the solution now, not later! we cannot wait any longer for some government to take pity on a ship. we have to create basic rules, and we should avoid thinking that when we build walls, those walls only go outwards, they also go inwards. what we do not allow is a restriction of freedom in our european union, in our member states.
mr president, mr vice-president of the european commission, madam president of the council, ladies and gentlemen! i can fully endorse what our president has just said: we need a breakthrough on two issues at the european council, at the summit: that is the asylum issue and the deepening of economic and monetary union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we cannot leave it to the smugglers to decide who can come to europe and who cannot. i very much hope that we will now make progress at the summit. i should like to use my speaking time to talk about the deepening of economic and monetary union. let me start by saying that i think, looking back, that the founding fathers of the euro did a really good job over 25 years ago with the maastricht treaty and the stability and growth pact, that we actually created a functioning, solid framework, that sensible rules and mechanisms were developed to keep the euro stable. this has evolved since the financial and economic crisis of 2007. but i believe that the framework that was set then still applies today, namely that the member states are also responsible for their own finances. that means we should not go into a debt union, into a risk or liability shift. i think we should stick to the basic values of economic and monetary union. the most important thing for me is still that the stability rules are respected. this is the best protection against crises. i think that, by forwarding this, you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that i can only make a profit in certain areas from the proposals for deepening economic and monetary union. i think it would be a good idea to set up a european monetary fund. but i think it's important to have conditionality here too. conditionality is the a and o for me. that means: help, yes, but against structural reforms, otherwise it simply does not work. we must finally tackle the enormous reduction of risk in the banks. i would simply like to urge this again and perhaps ask the commission again why we are not finally starting to move away from zero-weighting government bonds. so i still don't understand why we don't weigh the loans and the government bonds in balance sheets according to their risk.
i have to say, madam president, the next council meeting should be devoted to the euro crisis. we have been hearing for years now from irresponsible politicians that the euro has been saved, that the euro is a success story. that's a lie! the citizens of europe are being lied to: the euro crisis is more present than ever. we see this very clearly in the events in italy, where people are rightly opposed to the euro wearing a corset that italy cannot match. the euro is currently being kept alive artificially by a zero-interest policy of the european central bank and bond purchases. this is a scam on the savers. savers are being cheated out of their interest. we are very concerned in this parliament, and rightly so, about spending a million here and there. in the so-called target2 settlement system in euro, tens of billions of euros of collateral are due each month, and no human is involved. no decisions are taken at all. it's not okay. we must finally face this question and create exit scenarios so that countries can leave the euro in an orderly fashion.
i have to say, madam president, how private, how secure is our communication? the confidentiality of communications is a fundamental right and with the so-called different topic eprivacy regulation, this is finally being applied in the digital environment. parliament has been ready to go since autumn 2017, but the member states in the council are on the brakes, even after the revelations about cambridge analytica and millions of data misuse. a meeting last friday again failed to produce results. the council is being influenced by the big corporations, and this prevents clear regulations for platforms like facebook. the council does not seem to be concerned about privacy and fundamental rights for citizens. that is why i make a clear appeal to governments: before you rush into new and different legislation, finally deliver results on eprivacy, on the protection of communications and ultimately on democracy!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the council will also be dealing with the western balkans, and we should make it clear from this point of view: we believe it is time to act. there is a new wind blowing in macedonia - the treaty with bulgaria has shown this - and we should be grateful for the serious efforts made by the tsipras and zaev governments to resolve the name issue. albania is making significant progress and, when it comes to the rule of law, is doing much better than anywhere else, including the eu. now it's up to us to keep our word. open negotiations with these two countries! open a new chapter with serbia and montenegro! and this summer, remember that kosovo has met its conditions for visa-free travel. in parallel, we need to reform the eu - we all know that. but you can do it in parallel, because starting negotiations does not mean that you automatically get in and that it will be very short. the council must now prove that we are serious about wanting the people of the western balkans. you deserve it. every 15 years, a balkans summit is definitely not enough.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i'm a little surprised by this debate. in view of the fact that we are being pushed further back by chinese policy and its clear strategic, political and economic interests, putin's war policy, trump's behaviour, the right is talking about the dissolution of the european union, and the left has no concept either. we need decisions at this european council on how to proceed with the distribution policy, how to get the right of asylum, how to get a decent african policy and that we have to pay for all this with money; i think it's important to have a clear policy here. and we also need a more crisis-proof european economic and monetary union. these are the tasks we must solve in the reform programme in order to tackle these issues and at the same time be able to win back our citizens for this europe. and those who do not follow this line, right and left, must know that they are selling their own people to the americans, the russians and the chinese.
in writing. in preparing for the european council, it is important to me that we focus on the most important points. europe is surrounded by crises and problems. the european council is therefore all the more important for us not to set out grand objectives but to concentrate on the important points. we're headed for a trade war. we need a clear european line on this. the commission's agreed countermeasures are the right course to take in my view, and this must be confirmed by the council. we need to focus on the core tasks. the time is not right for visions, but for pragmatic solutions based on solidarity.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the eurozone is threatened with disintegration because of its structural errors, which at the same time favour the strengthening of nationalist forces. finally, the european commission is also taking a position on the future of the euro area. however, the suggestions presented do not address the root of the problem; they are more like a general practitioner who looks at the symptoms. the eurozone will break apart if trade deficits are not reduced. and a major problem is the german export surplus. first of all, this does not mean that we have to cut back and save in the rest of europe, it means that we need higher wages in germany. we also need public investment in the eu's future viability. but the future is not made by investing in the military and with pesco, it is made by investing in minds and in concrete. instead, let us spare ourselves these neoliberal brickheads and their destructive austerity policies and spend money on a modern economic and social structure that takes into account digitisation and modern technologies as well as investment in education, research and health!
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking today about the european monetary fund (emf), which the commission and some other notorious redistributive agents are proposing to create. you can twist and turn it as you please: you have no legal basis for the eec in union law. in 2010, it was still a sensation to see the european union act without or even against the law. that's when you violated the no-assistance clause in the walk-by. today, in the 10th year of the banking and currency crisis, observers have evidently long since become accustomed to the illegal behaviour. that is sad. the commission's proposal for an eec also violates the german constitution, as the centre for european policy clearly analysed last week. in urgent cases, money cannot be approved without the bundestag. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up. stop your pointless and unsuccessful bailouts! because a currency that you have to save all the time is not a functioning currency. it doesn't work for either of them. admit it and take the consequences.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. commissioner dombrovskis, you wrote in your reflection paper last year that our economic and monetary union is not sufficiently capable of stopping or reversing the social and economic drift between the euro countries resulting from the crisis. yes, that's the problem! that's what we're talking about here. and they say with pride: employment is increasing. if you know the figures, you know that this additional employment is in precarious jobs, that more people are working for less money. i also hear that germany is the biggest beneficiary of the euro. i want to say how it is: for us the euro is undervalued, we export too much, too cheaply, and we import too little, we give away wealth. and what is the consequence? we have a trillion claims against central banks that are insolvent. this is the reality. you are quite right: the moralizing tone of the federal government also gets on my nerves.
mr president, in order to succeed with a more sustainable architecture of the euro area, we need to observe four kinds of logic: the logic of sensible stabilising and preventative rules that are actually observed; the logic of fair insurance contracts concluded ex ante and paying out in times of economic shock, big european unemployment insurance or banking union; the logic of crisis management by strong institutions; and, last but not least, the logic of democracy. for the political sustainability of the common currency, it will be essential that rules, insurance contracts and strong crisis management capabilities strengthen democracy at the european and national level, rather than weaken it. in practice, this means proper accountability to the european parliament, and it means that our architecture needs to be based on solid federalism by exception, not an attempt to micromanage policies of member states at all times, which would only serve as a permanent support programme for populists and nationalist political parties set on destroying the european project.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you listen to the discussions here, you cannot believe that the majority of the population in greece, france, italy, spain - in other words, in the countries that are supposedly not benefiting from it - are totally in favour of the euro. the euro is a success, despite the imbalances. and if the rules are not followed, then even small changes will not work. so we have to think about the basic structure. the weaknesses and inborn defects of monetary union are on the table and, despite a strong recovery, they remain. i have to agree with professor starbatty in this case: from the german point of view, the euro is undervalued or even worthless. germany is undervalued in the euro. that's why we export wealth. the export surpluses are reflected in central bank liabilities on the other side. at the end of may, germany's central bank liabilities amounted to eur 956 billion, and the balances of italy, france and spain added up to eur 964 billion. if you forget that, you're not telling the truth. and if we want to set up a european monetary fund today, it must remain a matter of national responsibility. because where the taxes come from, the liability must remain. i believe that if the monetary commissioner is given additional powers of control, like the competition commissioner, then we can finally improve the enforcement of the rules.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not thank you for the clear vote. i ask that the final vote be postponed so that we can enter into the trilogue and there is no legal loophole, and so that the matter can be referred back to committee.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i believe it is very timely that we are discussing the nuclear deal with iran just today. you know that just a few hours ago the united states and the dprk ended their summit in singapore. today’s summit between the two proves that diplomacy and dialogue are the only way forward, in this case towards lasting peace on the korean peninsula and beyond. let me say that, in more general terms, this is a clear sign of the fact that the diplomatic track is often challenging, is often the most difficult one to be followed, but it is always the rewarding one and needs to be sustained over time. it was the same track that the international community and the european union followed for over a decade with iran, resulting in the signing, almost exactly three years ago, of the nuclear deal. we did it because it was in our security interest – our european security interest and the global security interest. through this deal we prevented nuclear proliferation, we avoided a regional escalation and we made sure that iran would never acquire a nuclear weapon – ever. three years on, the deal is delivering. iran abides by its nuclear-related commitments, as has been confirmed 11 times by the international atomic energy agency (iaea), the last time was just a few weeks ago. our position as europeans has not changed. on the contrary, we have seen the reasons why this agreement was a good agreement. we remain committed to the full and effective implementation of the nuclear deal with iran. what today is different is that on 8 may the united states took the unilateral decision to withdraw from the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa), the nuclear deal with iran, which is a multilateral agreement unanimously endorsed by the un security council with resolution 2231. the european union reacted in an immediate and united manner, as also agreed at the top level by the heads of state and government of all european union member states, in sofia, on 16 may and reconfirmed, just a couple of weeks ago, by the foreign ministers of the 28 member states at our last foreign affairs council. since a month ago, the bulk of the international community has confirmed and reiterated the strong support for the nuclear agreement with iran, simply for a very pragmatic reason – that there is no better alternative and the world cannot afford a nuclear arms race. in particular, i would add, the world cannot afford a nuclear arms race in the middle east. this support from the rest of the international community is something i experience every single day in my meetings, be it with the chinese foreign minister or the japanese foreign minister or the african union chairman or our colleagues from latin america or the rest of europe that are not part of the european union. this features always very high on the agenda. how can we partner together and make sure that the agreement stays in place. and, let me say, here the european union has a responsibility also to share with partners around the world, which is how to maintain one of the few functioning pillars of the nuclear non—proliferation architecture. this support was also reiterated by the other co—signatories of the nuclear agreement – france, germany, the united kingdom, russia and china. we convened and we chaired, as the european union, the first joint commission without the united states on 25 may in vienna. the work on the implementation of nuclear—related commitments continues. this is essential for security. for instance, the arak reactor modernisation project led by china continues, as does the conversion of the fordow facility into a nuclear physics and technology centre, a project led by russia. a dedicated workshop on fordow is foreseen to take place later this week. it is essential for our own security and for the security of the region that implementation work continues and we are guaranteeing that this happens, regardless of the us withdrawal. implementation must continue, both on the nuclear commitments and also on the economic track, because the other essential part of the nuclear deal is the lifting of sanctions and the opportunities it creates for normalised trade and economic relations. from this perspective, the us decision to withdraw from the jcpoa and to re—impose all secondary sanctions is extremely problematic and needs to be addressed, first of all by the european union, by its member states, and by the rest of the international community at large. many european companies have chosen to do business with iran after the agreement was signed and are doing so in good faith, based on commitments made by the international community, as i said, based on the implementation of the un security council resolution unanimously adopted. some of them have already announced now that they would discontinue their engagement so as to avoid us penalties. others have informed that they would withdraw from negotiations that had already started – leaving, by the way, the economic investment space to other players in the world, which also is not in the european interest. this has created, as you can imagine, and as you know, enormous pressure inside iran, especially from those who have always opposed the agreement, and the credibility of the entire international community, of the multilateral system, of the un system, is being questioned. the recent statements by iran on uranium hexafluoride must be seen in this context. these announcements are clearly not a violation of the nuclear deal, but it is also clear they do not contribute to build confidence and they are meant to put pressure on the international community. the letter sent by president rouhani to the heads of state and government of france, germany and the uk is to be interpreted exactly in the same context. it’s clear that our strategic and security interest is to save, to preserve this nuclear deal. we have reacted in a firm, decisive and united manner to protect at the same time our security interests, and let me say, in this way, our economic sovereignty. this is also an incentive, i would say the incentive, for iran to continue to comply with its nuclear restrictions. any other alternative could have tragic consequences and it would make us all less secure, with no exceptions. as a first major step, last wednesday, the european commission adopted two delegated acts. the first is an update of the blocking statute, which forbids eu companies to comply with us secondary sanctions. the second is an extension of the lending mandate of the european investment bank to support economic activities in iran. after a period of non—objection, both acts should enter into force on 5 august, just before the first batch of us sanctions takes effect on 6 august. the support of this parliament to conclude both processes swiftly will be of the essence and extremely important, also as a political sign. we are also working on concrete measures aimed at sustaining our cooperation in key economic sectors, particularly on banking and finance, trade and investment, oil and transport. in this work we keep a strong focus on small and medium—sized enterprises which are less engaged in the us market. the most important challenge now is to find solutions on banking and finance, because legitimate trade and investment need banking partners and financial models that work. these issues are being addressed through intensive expert consultations, happening basically on a daily basis, including in brussels and in tehran last week, but also at the political level. as i mentioned, we worked on this with eu member states’ foreign ministers at the last foreign affairs council. we focused in particular on the need to combine our work at eu level, with the two measures i just mentioned and the work that is ongoing at the expert level, with action from single member states to protect national economic operators. this is the only way to be effective in this endeavour – to combine eu—level measures and national measures in a coordinated manner. this is why we decided, and we have started to do so, to set up a network of national focal points of all eu member states to further coordinate and intensify our work. this is essential to keep iran in the nuclear agreement. of course, iran also needs to do its part – and this is very clear – to improve its standards against money laundering and terrorist financing and step up banking reforms. these are essential steps to make iran more attractive to european businesses and banks. last week, the foreign and finance ministers of france, germany and the uk, together with myself, wrote a letter to the us secretaries of state and of the treasury. we expressed our expectation that the extra—territorial effects of us secondary sanctions will not be enforced on eu entities and individuals, and that the united states respect the good faith of economic operators within eu legal territory, and we asked for a number of specific exemptions. let me be very clear. first of all, this is not an economic issue for europe. this is a security issue for europe, and the main thing is the nuclear non—proliferation efforts we’re making. second, our determination to preserve the deal is also in the interests of the united states, because preserving the nuclear deal is essential to our common security, both for europe, for the united states and for the entire middle east, which might otherwise fall into a spiral of nuclear proliferation and of an even more dangerous level of conflictuality. think for one moment of the scenario without the nuclear agreement in place tomorrow and you’ll realise how dangerous this would be for all of us. preserving the nuclear deal is also essential to maintaining our unique and precious – even if difficult – channels of communication with iran. the nuclear deal was never meant to solve or to address all issues in our relations with iran. on the contrary, at the very beginning, meaning some 15 years ago now, that the purpose of the agreement would have been limited to only nuclear issues. like it or not, that was the mandate the high representative at that time received from the un security council, and this is the mandate that was fulfilled. having a nuclear deal in place with iran has opened up a window to address other issues that are not nuclear—related and that are there and that are our issues of concern as much as they are american issues of concern. they are outside the scope of the nuclear deal; they always have been. they need to be addressed. we believe that they can be better addressed on the basis of maintaining the nuclear deal with iran, rather than on the basis of destroying it. i’ll give you a couple of examples of small windows that have opened up in our dialogue and political talks with iran on issues that are not related to the nuclear ones. we have had the opportunity to discuss ballistic missiles, regional issues and human rights in the eu—iran high level political dialogue and in other meetings – quite a unique formation, especially for the west. i’ll be very clear, we have serious issues with iran’s behaviour and stance in those fields. this is no mystery – either for us, or for them – but they are not linked to the nuclear agreement implementation and they would not be easier to deal with at all without the nuclear deal in place. on the contrary, let me say by experience that during all the years of negotiations of the nuclear deal anything else that was not nuclear—related was basically off the table. once you keep and consolidate the nuclear deal with iran and make its survival beyond question, then the space opens up to deal with other issues. we are addressing these issues in their own right, in direct contacts such as on yemen. on this, i would like to share with you that we have set up a regional dialogue with iran, chaired by us, by the european union, with the participation of france, germany, italy and the uk. so far this dialogue has focused on yemen and it has already delivered one step that was important – helping organise the visit of the un special envoy mr griffiths to sana’a at the beginning of june, to meet with the houthi leadership. we will discuss further steps of this work exactly with the special envoy of the united nations at the next foreign affairs council to see how we can use our channels to try and make the work to solve the yemen crisis more effective. if the nuclear deal collapsed, it would also be much more difficult to address our non—nuclear concerns that we have. the current tensions on the nuclear deal have already narrowed the space for discussing all the other issues and we believe it is in nobody’s interest to close the channels that currently remain open. again, the only outcome would be to give more space to those in the region, including in iran, that argue for more radical positions. our position on the iran nuclear deal is based on our principles and it is based on pragmatism. the nuclear deal makes europe more secure and prevents a nuclear arms race in the middle east. it brings economic benefits to the people of iran, and it should continue to do so, and it opens precious new channels – albeit difficult ones, as i said – for diplomacy and dialogue. this is why we are determined to preserve the nuclear deal and prevent a new escalation of tensions in an already troubled region and world, because europe and the world cannot afford wasting all of this.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. i would like to begin by thanking you, mrs mogherini, for your comprehensive presentation of the situation and also personally thanking you - i believe on behalf of all members of this parliament who are interested in foreign affairs - for your very personal commitment to this very important issue. we are all agreed in this house: the iran deal was never perfect, as we all know. but it is still the right way to prevent a nuclear-armed iran, as you have just said. and it is to this agreement that the international atomic energy agency attributes the fact that there is "no credible evidence" of an iranian nuclear weapons programme after 2009. that is why the american decision is so difficult to understand. but i would like to make one more point: iran's role in both domestic and foreign policy remains highly problematic. mrs mogherini, you have just mentioned this: the massive human rights violations, the ballistic missile programme, the destabilising role in countries such as iraq, syria or yemen, the support for hezbollah in lebanon and, last but not least, the aggressive threats against israel are unacceptable to us, and we want, madam high representative, that these problems continue to be addressed openly and unequivocally at all political levels. you have earned the support of the european parliament.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i also want to thank you very much for your commitment and for the things you have already achieved, high representative. if europe follows president trump's will and also reimposes sanctions on iran, then iran will resume the production of nuclear weapons, and a nuclear arms race in the middle east will begin. because if iran has nuclear weapons, then surely its arch-enemy saudi arabia cannot be stopped from acquiring them as well. and saudi arabia would not be the only country that would go after the bomb and support terrorists. we must prevent this by all means. europe must stand up to donald trump, who wants to punish all companies that trade with iran. the best thing we can do is to adopt an old regulation, which you, madam president, have already mentioned: the blockade regulation, which helps european companies who want to trade with iran. this regulation provides for compensation to all companies which are unable to carry on their activities in the united states because of their trade with iran. we have no choice but to take the measures you have proposed. trade between europe and iran must not be stopped. i expect the european parliament and the council of ministers to give you their approval in advance and to signal that these measures will be confirmed, because anything else would be a mortal threat to us all. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – yes, i think it is possible. we have already started some business and the point is not the money transfer, which is already possible now. the point is what you, high representative, have mentioned, namely that european banks also give loans and that the usual business with money transfers works. so the answer is yes.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i've been thinking about what i'm going to say for a long time. on the one hand, president trump is sending signals to end the war and denuclearise the korean peninsula, which we of course welcome, and on the other, he is cancelling a denuclearisation agreement with iran. he signs a g7 declaration, then tweets off a few minutes later. he dances happily with the saudi despot on a state visit to riyadh and calls countries that don't suit him dirty countries. american foreign policy has become unpredictable and therefore arbitrary. the united states is only a shadowy partner, and its leadership role, which it has always insisted on, has long since been lost. we must strengthen the un and not squat like a rabbit before a snake and hope it doesn't bite. it is time to take our own paths, to look at our own strengths, to do the things that need to be done. the iran nuclear deal must be preserved. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. we don't want that. peace - let me say this in conclusion - and only peace makes it possible to develop the economy, to fight corruption, to improve the situation of people and to defend human rights effectively. let's go this way!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we welcome your clear position, mrs mogherini, and the clear position of the commission, including the mandate for the european investment bank and the reinstated blocking regulation. i do not want to repeat everything that has already been said. iran has kept its agreements, the united states of america has not. they have unilaterally withdrawn and, if they were really to impose sanctions, they would be breaking a treaty or breaking international rules. i still think that's totally irresponsible. the security of this region has a lot to do with our security. and if iran doesn't get its benefits, why should it keep its end of the bargain? this will be a danger to all of us, because saudi arabia has announced what will happen; israel has it, too. we cannot accept this danger to all of us just because a president of the united states has lost respect for his allies. let me make a point that is also very important to me. i think we should once again urge our partners in iran to finally open an eu mission in iran. it is not blocked by us, if i understand correctly, but it is blocked by tehran so far. if we want to work together in depth, sometimes we have to do it quickly and in a direct way. and that is why such an eu mission in tehran would be exactly the right thing to do.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. when i was in iran three weeks ago, and i was there talking to senior members of the guardian council, this is what i saw: on the one hand, there is a great deal of confidence in the european countries that they will at least keep their word, but on the other hand, there is a great deal of mistrust that europe will finally be playing the us card again. i think that the hope that the eu, europe, will find its own way and set itself apart from the united states and finally exert the economic power of five hundred million europeans is great and must not be disappointed. donald trump, the u.s. is out. renegotiation was also discussed why not? why not create a nuclear-weapon-free zone throughout the middle east, including israel, so that peace is guaranteed there once and for all?
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it's about saving the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. that is why it is important, and that is why i wish you, mrs mogherini, every success, that the treaty negotiated by you and supported by us, the three eu member states - which are democratic - and enforced by us, is now defended with the other partners against the extraterritorial claims of the united states of america. at the same time, we should be aware that there are, of course, criticisms of iran: for its internal structure, for its human rights violations, for its missile programme, for its involvement in the wars in the middle east and for its policy towards israel. but we have to make it clear that if president trump destroys the iran deal, he will have no credibility with north korea. i would also like to wish him every success in his negotiations. if he were to get the verification with north korea that you, mrs mogherini, negotiated in the case of iran, he would have a good result. what came out today is a nice statement without any guarantee that north korea will stick to it.
mr president, this debate is based on a number of fake news items on the so-called iran deal. there never was a deal. i cite the obama administration: ‘the joint comprehensive plan of action is not a treaty or an executive agreement, and it is not a signed document’. i cite iranian foreign minister zarif: ‘no agreement has been reached, so we do not have any obligation yet,’ and iranian leader ali khamenei: ‘nothing has happened yet’. in the us it was a decision taken only by one person, the former president of the united states, against the articulated democratic majority of the us congress by all of its republican – and some of its democrat – members. it was an agreement without any binding obligations, as the leaders of iran very openly and precisely made clear on the very day this so-called deal was published. it was an agreement that solely stated the personal and political trust of the former president of the united states in the iranian leadership. it signalled the trust of this utterly overrated president in a government that repeatedly announces its will to extinguish israel; a government that supports a number of islamic terrorist organisations all over the middle east; a government that has shown its disrespect for most of our values for almost four decades. this deal was established undemocratically; it was non—binding and was a clear proof of the inappropriate visions – not to say lack of visions – of obama’s foreign policy, which the vast majority of this parliament still follows against any intelligent understanding of the situation. let’s go for a new deal. let’s go for a real deal. let’s go for a deal that respects the vital and legitimate interests of iran’s neighbours, and especially israel.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. mr president, i fully support the line you are taking here politically. i am very surprised to see colleagues who do not justify their rejection of this agreement with iran by saying that iran is violating it, but by saying that iran is engaged in other politically reprehensible activities. in fact, that is all to criticize, and everything that we do not like about iran has been listed. but that has nothing to do with the subject of the negotiation. when we were negotiating these things back then - i remember, i was already involved back then - the priority of the priorities was to prevent the iranian bomb. and it was right to make this deal. i wonder, for example, whether israel's security is better guaranteed if iran no longer feels bound by the agreement. i don't think he is. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the european parliament has been asked to make a statement on the situation in iran.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i just wanted to ask you: if you talk about human rights violations in iran, why do you not talk about human rights violations in the united states and israel?
i have to say, madam president, i have the great honour of chairing the delegation of the european parliament to chile, and i have had a very intense experience of this: chile is a politically stable country, perhaps the most stable in all of latin america. in recent years, it has made very good progress, not only economically but also politically and democratically. president bachelet has initiated many reforms, such as a new electoral law which now also allows women to participate more in active politics, a tax reform, education reforms, she has started a pension reform and launched a new constitution after pinochet. i have seen for myself that in the debate on the modernisation of the association agreement, for example, the gender dimension has been brought much more strongly by the chileans, and the dialogue with civil society is much stronger and much better than ever before. we as the european parliament should support this development and i do indeed support the demand that this european parliament should still be able to decide on this modernisation of the association agreement.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eu human rights report 2017 is an impressive document with many useful and necessary initiatives, especially at a time of increasing backlash on human rights protection, the rule of law and the promotion of democracy. the continuing and increasing attacks on the independence and capacity of civil society and human rights defenders to work require increased attention. the protect defenders programme in particular should be continued and extended. in view of the current debate on the financing and convergence of foreign policy instruments, i would like to stress the importance of the autonomy of the european instrument for democracy and human rights. its effectiveness, especially in difficult political contexts, must not be jeopardised. expert voices from civil society report a creeping decline in the eu's human rights record. i have heard this criticism before and it must be taken seriously by the european external action service and the commission. for example, it is unacceptable that the eu-egypt partnership agreement was signed in 2017, even though the egyptian president signed a tougher ngo law during the negotiation phase. this is just one example of many where the eu is losing credibility. not only in trade policy, but also massively in refugee policy, i see in 2017 and today the eu's greatest shortcomings in dealing with the double standards of its human rights policy and in consistently protecting the lives and rights of refugees at our external borders. a recent example is the refusal of a member state to allow refugees in distress to land. this shows the growing willingness of member states and the eu to look the other way when it comes to the human rights of refugees.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank you for this indeed very fruitful debate in this extremely demanding field. i cannot agree more with the majority of the examples you mentioned. also, i cannot agree more that maximising the efficiency of our tools in promoting and protecting human rights and democracy is of utmost importance. no doubt about this. to achieve our ambitious goals of improvements for democracy and human rights across the globe, we have to ensure a strategic and systematic approach. i would like to focus on this because the majority of you also emphasised this: our systematic and strategic approach. finally, let me express my deep appreciation for the very constructive and enhanced cooperation with this house. in this challenging global context, i find it more important than ever to ensure that we all speak with one voice in upholding democratic values and the universality of human rights. i think it is quite important to insist on this in order to be more efficient and effective on the ground. my experience in many conflict areas around the world convinces me that this is the only way to improve the situation on the ground.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on 'georgia's occupied territories ten years after the russian invasion' (2018/2741 ((rsp)).
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, madam high representative! i want to be clear . anyone in this house who denies the georgian war of the summer of 2008 or who wants to interpret it as a russian invasion is deliberately engaging in historical revisionism - mrs fotyga and mr preda - because all he has to do is look at the tagliavini report. let 's stick to the facts . like his ultra-nationalist predecessor gamsakhurdia, saakashvili had launched an armed campaign against the abkhaz and south ossetians with the aim of subjecting them to central power and at the same time depriving them of their historical identity - in the tradition of the tsar and also of the russian reality under stalin. in a region where the closest-knit peoples still do not find the form of a common life together, an adventurous undertaking. i 'll tell you what . take it easy on today's question, because the political situation on the ground is more positive than what is presented here. the ruling elites in tbilisi, tskhinvali, moscow and sukhumi are working to restore the modus operandi of before the rose revolution, to develop trade and economic cooperation, to improve the difficult living conditions of the people. although the fundamental question of how the peoples living here can live together in their national identity remains unresolved, the aim is to relax relations in small steps - not without contradictions. we should debate this and use the best resources of the ead and the european parliament to answer this question so that the eu can play a peacemaking role, including calling on moscow to finally join the icc.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, i would like to say that in my view the desire to join nato or the desire to join the european union should not be a justification - it should not have been, it should not be, it should not be in the future - for going to war against a country. the invasion of georgia in 2008 remains a great trauma for georgian society that one encounters again and again. the torture and murder of archil tatunashvili earlier this year was a moment in which one could see again how this trauma is being activated again and again, and that russia, which is responsible for the occupation of the regions in georgia, has so far not found a responsible way to deal with these regions. georgia has no possibility today of seeking a military solution to this situation. the good news is, georgia doesn't want to do that either. but with one third of georgia's territory occupied today, any compromise with russia on international law would be a disaster for georgia in my view. that is why it is good that we have this resolution so clearly on the table today. it is also a sign against russia's attempt, with vladimir putin at the head, to reverse and question the decolonization of the soviet union and the great soviet empire.
mr president, as we have already heard this afternoon, following the war in 2008, russia has made deeply concerning steps towards the de facto annexation of abkhazia and south ossetia, thereby undermining international law and violating the eu-mediated ceasefire agreement. as one of the initiators of this resolution, let me point out that the european parliament should seize the opportunity to fully support georgia’s sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally recognised borders. in my view, three actions by russia are required in order for the conflict to be solved. firstly, moscow should unconditionally fulfil all the provisions of the ceasefire agreement, especially the commitment to withdraw its military forces and guarantee the eu monitoring mission access to the occupied territories. secondly, moscow should cease the borderisation of the administrative boundary line and refrain from advancing further into georgian territory. thirdly, the expulsion of georgian citizens, human rights abuses and discrimination on ethnic grounds must end. this is a frozen conflict, but it shouldn’t be a forgotten conflict.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if you cannot change an international law-breaking status quo overnight, you must do the following: first of all, it must be made clear that this state of affairs is not recognised by the law, by international law. that's the first step. and the second step is to help the victim of such aggression. that's what we do in georgia. it is right that we continue the policy we have started with the association agreement and also with the visa-free regime. in this context we should also support everything that is possible within the framework of the united nations in geneva. even if they are small steps, they should convince russia that in the future it will better pursue its policies and interests by trying to live in peace and in a friendly way with its neighbours. the way it's been acting so far is only isolating russia.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. as i was listening to my colleague karas, i remembered that ten years ago, during the war, we were both traveling in georgia, behind the russian lines, in gori. and if i look at the border there today, it's grown, it's grown into the lifeblood of georgia, as far as the pipeline is concerned, as far as the main highway is concerned. and if i look at it further, the border today goes through villages. people can't visit their cemeteries because they've got barbed wire. we should see that this is intolerable to humans. it reminds me a bit of the divided germany, how the border lines run and how this goes through the villages. secondly, it is important to note that the russian strategy is a little different in nagorno karabakh, georgia, transnistria, and the war in eastern ukraine. in all these countries, conflicts are fomented and maintained in order to render the countries incapable of acting in their development process. this is an unacceptable russian strategy throughout the region and is contrary to international law.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, let me first of all thank the rapporteur for the excellent work on one of the central issues in the work we are doing for a stronger europe of defence. the report wishes for ‘a more substantive partnership within the european union and nato’. not only do we share 22 members, we also face similar challenges and we have converging security interests. almost 95% of citizens of the european union live in nato countries, so protecting these people is the first of our shared interests. at the same time, the report is also very clear that eu—nato cooperation should be complementary, as it is, and respectful of each other specificities, as it is. we are different organisations; we, the european union, are not a military alliance, and we do not intend to become one. our european way to peace and security is unique, and we are proud of the work we do and the way we do it. our friends at nato appreciate the specificity of what we do. our missions, both civilian and military, carry out some very different tasks compared to nato operations, so complementarity is in the nature of our partnership. we do different things, and this is why we are increasingly working together on the ground, taking advantage of our complementarity. this is why the nato leadership, starting from the secretary—general, jens stoltenberg, has been so supportive of our work towards a stronger europe of defence. all the work we’ve done inside the european union has always been done hand-in-hand with strong nato support and with the deepening of the partnership with nato. on the one hand, we are working to strengthen the capabilities of our member states, and in most cases these are also nato allies. they have one set of forces that can be used in european missions and in nato missions alike – and let me also add in un missions – and in this way, a stronger european union in the field of defence makes nato stronger. on the other hand, we are also investing in our complementarity; for example, in our civilian capabilities. as you know, last week, together with the secretary—general of nato, we presented to our respective councils, to the european union council and to nato council, the third progress report on the implementation of our joint declaration, which we signed during the last nato summit in warsaw. let me just highlight some key achievements that are mentioned in this progress report, which, by the way, will also constitute a good basis for our further work looking ahead to the next nato summit in brussels. first, the clearest progress is probably on military mobility. today more than ever, rapid response has become an essential requirement for our security, getting our assets where they are needed, and doing so swiftly, is a necessity we need to ensure at all times. but this is also about how efficient we are in our defence spending, because if we invest in the best military capabilities and the most advanced defence systems, but then they get stuck at the border for customs checks, obviously we have an efficiency issue. if we cannot move our assets rapidly, we will need to buy more of them to make sure that they are in the right place at the right time. this is clearly not an efficient way to invest the defence budgets, so it’s relevant for operational reasons and for budget reasons. a big part of the work here is going on at european union level, where obviously we have competencies and instruments to address these issues, with a project under the permanent structured cooperation, as well as with the proposed new investment from the commission. we are working in constant coordination with nato; experts from nato are taking part in our work, and nato has shared its parameters for transport infrastructure. there is no better example of how a stronger european union in the field of defence also makes nato stronger. the second field that i would mention as an example is hybrid threats. after the salisbury attack, the european council called for increased eu engagement on cyber security, strategic communication and counter-intelligence, as well as close cooperation with nato on chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear issues. we are currently working to respond to this task, and our proposals will be reflected in three documents that will be presented in the european council at the end of this month: a joint communication on the follow-up to salisbury; a joint report on the progress of the implementation of the 22 joint eu nato actions on hybrid threats; and the 15 security union progress reports. our european and nato staffs are working together on hybrid threats in a number of different contexts on a daily basis. i will mention not only the european centre of excellence for countering hybrid threats, but also our task force on strategic communications and the eu hybrid fusion cell for situational awareness. the next eu-nato parallel and coordinated exercises are to take place next november. and similarly to last year, the exercises will be based on a hybrid scenario and will aim at synchronising our two organisations’ crisis response. the third area of cooperation is our work to build the capacities of our partners. in particular, we have intensified the exchange of information at staff level on three pilot countries: bosnia and herzegovina, moldova and tunisia, but work has also intensified on ukraine, georgia and jordan. we are also working together in ukraine on issues such as strategic communications, training and security sector reform. finally, the first ever eu—nato staff-to-staff dialogue on counterterrorism took place at the end of may. it focused on cooperation against terrorist threats, collaboration on the global coalition against daesh, capacity building of partner countries and development of scenario—based discussions. these are just few examples – still many, and i apologise for being long – that clearly demonstrate the new engagement between the two organisations. our cooperation has never been better, it has never been wider and has never been deeper. on our side, we europeans have finally decided to take full responsibility for our own security, and this is also in the interest of our partners in nato. we are autonomous, but we are partners – very good ones. we are different, but we do share the same interests and we could not afford to walk in opposite directions. it would not be efficient, it would not be safe, and it would not be smart, and this is why we do not do it and we will never do it. as your report rightly says: it is time for a more substantial partnership between the european union and nato, and this is precisely what we are doing today, and we will continue to do even more in the future. last but not least, i apologise, i just realised while i was speaking that i should have changed seats in addressing this debate. i will move to the other side of the plenary in a minute.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank mr paşcu for his very timely report. i think we are showing how we can optimise eu-nato cooperation. there are things that nato can and must do better, but there are things that we can do better at eu level. that is why it is important that we now realise that by working better within the eu we are also strengthening the european pillar of nato. if we do card, the defense review, every year, then we know what we need. if we then move forward in defence research and capability development, if we set up the defence fund and then also make our contributions better in the eu budget for cooperation in our defence industries, then we will be better among ourselves and also better within nato. but it's also important that we then develop strategic autonomy for when other nato partners don't want us to act. i think that we as the european union must be able to act independently of nato if necessary.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is important that the european parliament looks at the eu-nato relationship, especially as the eu is redefining itself in its own defence. i support a common european security and defence policy based on the principle of pooling and sharing arms. at the same time, i support a policy of conversion and european arms exports as an instrument of a common foreign policy. as a member of the european socialist party, however, i am calling for a revision of the 2% target for nato towards an adequate defence budget for the eu member states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need a more efficient europeanisation of the defence industries of all the member states, which goes hand in hand with a common strategy. i therefore asked for a separate vote on the relevant paragraph in the text. there will be no support for the 2% target for nato with us social democrats in the european parliament.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. with the european defence fund, with permanent structured cooperation and with the coordinated annual defence review, the european union has probably achieved more in common defence in the last two years than in the previous decades. this will benefit both the european union and nato as a whole. i would like to give a very specific example in this debate. earlier this year i visited the nato battle group lithuania in rukla. i was told there that it would be logistical and administrative to transport equipment and vehicles to the baltic states. permits must be obtained weeks in advance and dozens of different forms must be filled out, which vary from country to country. i therefore welcome the pesco project to improve military mobility. we cannot afford to have military transport, when it counts, held back by bureaucratic hurdles and inadequate transport networks. this is a successful example of cooperation between the european union and nato. we should get on with it.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. madam president, thank you very much for the opportunity to speak again. i would like to say that despite all the crises we are facing, nato is a highly successful defence community which we need for the collective security of europe. we should not confuse this with anger at a certain american president. but we should also make it clear that we want to be a pillar, an equal pillar of nato, and not a vassal. but that means we have to be stronger. and that is why we should not just get into this 2% debate, but we should make it clear that the european union must create the synergies that were hinted at in the defence union of december. if we can create these synergies, we can become militarily stronger with a lot of money and we can play a big role. the question of the europeanisation of our defence policy is therefore also a crucial starting point for credibly strengthening nato.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, first of all, let me thank mr paşcu for an excellent report and all of you for the good support that you have provided to the work we have done in these years. many of you reminded us of the crucial steps we’ve made, both in strengthening the european union defence but also in cooperation with nato. i would like to use these few minutes just to reassure you on the fact that, first, we will continue having a pragmatic, realistic approach as mr danjean mentioned. i believe we are beyond the ideological debate and we are focusing on the practical things we can and we have an interest in doing, and that the work will continue on the european way to defence and security, which is a particular one and which sometimes implies a military component but is never exclusively military. we will continue doing this, obviously, in the council. just in a couple of weeks from now, we will have another session of the foreign and defence ministers together in the council to prepare the european council at the end of june, with further progress, especially on the permanent structured cooperation (pesco) but also on the eu-nato partnership. that, i believe, will contribute also to the good preparation of the nato summit for what concerns nato issues. then there might be other issues coming up on the agenda that do not relate to defence and security, strictly speaking. i would also like to say that i believe that work will continue also in strong cooperation with other european institutions. i am thinking of the european commission that is supporting this work for the first time ever, with especially the european defence fund and the proposed multiannual financial framework (mff), but also with the european defence agency, which is doing a fantastic job in supporting technically all this work. so, thank you for the support. thank you also for the indications. last point: some of you mentioned the future relations with the uk. let me say very clearly this will have nothing to do with relations between the european union and nato; clearly so. it has something to do with our work in the permanent structured cooperation. member states will come to that point later this year to define ways in which third countries might be invited to join some pesco projects, but is not for now and it is not for nato. i believe that, including our strong eu-nato cooperation, we will find ways to have constructive work between the european union and the uk after brexit happens, because we share the same security objectives, and i believe that in this field we will manage to build strong cooperation in the future.
deputising for the rapporteur. – madam president, i am speaking on behalf of rapporteur jarosław wałęsa, who is not able to be here due to family reasons (he is about to become a father, which is always i suppose a very happy thing). macrofinancial assistance is an exceptional emergency mechanism aimed at addressing severe balance of payment difficulties in third countries. in other words, it is a financial instrument and its purpose is economic stabilisation. this is the fourth time that the commission proposes macrofinancial assistance (mfa) for ukraine since the beginning of the war in 2014. this time, the commission proposes eur 1 billion to be dispersed as medium- and long-term loans. the assistance is also intended to trigger reforms in ukraine, which is done by agreeing with the ukrainian authorities a memorandum of understanding. this memorandum sets out the supporting policy measures which are conditional for the disbursements of the funds. in that context, i would like to highlight three key elements. first, the worsening conflict and casualties in the east of ukraine and all the many socio-economic consequences of this aggression. second, the economic recovery, which remains fragile. third, the reform process, which has been important but is not really steady until now. hence, the need for support for these reforms in the context where many interests can play against, especially in pre-election years. that being said, to address any doubts that may arise during this debate, the mfa is not an unconditional support. there are firm conditions to ensure that this money will serve economic stabilisation and support the reforms. it is very important to remind that the commission cancelled the last tranche of the third mfa programme when some of ukraine’s commitments were not fulfilled. therefore, it is crucial that the two unfulfilled anti-corruption measures will be part of the new conditions. if corruption is not addressed drastically, mfa funds should not be delivered to ukraine. a step in the right direction is the adoption of the law on the high anti-corruption court this last week. in addition, the newly adopted law was signed yesterday by the president of ukraine. the rapporteur welcomes this news with great satisfaction: it means that ukrainians take the commitment seriously. i believe that our common goal is to help ukraine, but it is true that we need to closely follow the situation. if we are serious about our goal, we cannot slow down the procedures. this means that the rapporteur does not support any amendments tabled to the plenary and recommends closing the file at first reading. to end, i would like to underline once again that this report is just a legal base for the commission to disburse the money, but they will do so only when ukrainians manage to fulfil all the agreed and outstanding conditions. the rapporteur is very sure that the commission will take this role actively and will pay great attention to political evolutions in ukraine.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me first thank the rapporteur, mr wałęsa, and the committee on international trade (inta) for their work on this report. i would also like to thank the committee on foreign affairs (afet) for its valuable contribution to this debate. the partnership between ukraine and the eu has grown deeper and stronger. today i am seeking your support to maintain this momentum through the adoption of a further proposal for macro-financial assistance (mfa). a look at the past mfa operation from 2014 shows how important this support is for ukraine. first, back in 2014, the mfa was a key eu instrument to provide immediate financial assistance to ukraine in order to stabilise its economic and financial situation. ukraine returned to economic recovery and growth in 2016 and 2017, after two years of steep recession. it is an important success story, not only for ukraine, but also for the eu. second, the mfa has played a major role in supporting reforms in ukraine and, in particular, in stabilising ukraine’s economy in the medium term. through this programme, the eu has supported a broad range of anti-corruption reforms, including the establishment of the anti—corruption infrastructure, spearheaded by the national anti-corruption bureau. reforms to its energy and public procurement markets also helped to eliminate major sources of corruption. it has also helped ukraine to improve its public finance management, to clean up its banking sector and to improve its business environment, for example, by automating vat returns and reducing red tape. however, despite its recovery, ukraine’s economic situation remains fragile. russia’s destabilising actions in eastern ukraine continue, and the security situation remains tense. ukraine is paying a high price. for example, its defence spending reached 5% of gdp last year, which otherwise could be used for the development of ukraine. ukraine’s debt repayment obligations will increase substantially in 2018 and 2019, putting a very heavy burden on the state budget. we cannot afford to let ukraine fail. therefore, the new mfa operation is necessary, along with other international support, in particular from the international monetary fund. having stressed the importance of this mfa proposal, let me add a clear message on the reforms in ukraine. as always, this mfa proposal is strictly linked to reform conditions. due to delays with the implementation of agreed anti—corruption reforms, the commission cancelled the last disbursement under mfa iii in january 2018. in order to give a clear political signal to the ukrainian authorities that the newly proposed mfa operation will also be subject to state conditionality, parliament, the council and the commission have agreed – on parliament’s initiative – to attach a joint statement to the legislative decision. i am convinced that this joint statement adequately addresses the key concerns of meps voiced in the committee process. first, the joint statement recalls that the political preconditions of the mfa require ukraine to respect democratic mechanisms, including a multi-party system, the rule of law and human rights under the scrutiny of the commission and the european external action service. second, the statement makes clear that the fight against corruption will be at the heart of the policy conditions of the memorandum of understanding to be agreed between eu and ukraine for this mfa operation. related issues, like money laundering and tax evasion, will also be taken into account for the conditionality of this operation. specifically, the unmet anti—corruption conditions from the previous mfa operation should be implemented. these conditions were the establishment of the verification system for asset declarations and verification of companies’ beneficial ownership data. further mfa assistance will be conditional on progress in setting up a well—functioning anti-corruption court. importantly, last week the ukrainian parliament adopted the law on the high anti—corruption court by 315 votes. that is 88 votes more than needed for a majority. yesterday, the law was signed by the president of ukraine. let me also say that, behind that, commissioner hahn and i have raised the issue of abolishing the obligation of e—declarations on anti-corruption activists. this remains an urgent issue to be addressed, just like the reform of the central election commission. we are at a crucial point in time in ukraine, with the expiry of the imf programme in march 2019 and presidential and parliamentary elections also looming next year. the window of opportunity for reforms may be closing as the election approaches, so it is important to get this mfa programme up and running in the shortest possible time. if we delay or turn our backs on ukraine, the risk of reform reversals would be high. so i hope that we will have your full support going forward.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – thank you very much, madam president, dear commissioner and dear rapporteur. i am very grateful that we are where we are now. indeed, ukraine needs this support and it deserves this support, and it is very appropriate to have this next programme now. as the commissioner and the rapporteur outlined, we have attached conditions to it, and rightly so, because it is about the people in the country that expect their politicians to deliver, in particular as regards the fight against corruption. this endemic, systemic problem needs to be addressed, and i hope that, by the end of this legislature in march next year, we will see the court working to address major violations of the rule of law in the area of corruption. as committee on foreign affairs (afet), we were perhaps more ambitious than the committee on international trade (inta). we wanted to attach real political conditions, namely the court, the abolition of e—declarations for ngo activists and the reform of the central and the other election commissions. i am grateful to the commissioner that you – although it is not included in the joint declaration – explicitly referred to that, because that is what it is also about. we need to be very clear in this regard. i was grateful that the president of the parliament, when i was in kyiv on saturday and we were sitting together on the panel, showed me his fresh signature on this very law. he promised that he would go to the president and see to it that the president initiated the implementing law, which is still required. the verkhovna rada should then vote on the implementing law in the following week. we are looking forward to seeing that, and that is what we can expect.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank my colleagues rosati, gahler and auštrevičius for this debate. we have met repeatedly over the past year - in kiev and in brussels. we met with representatives of the anti-corruption initiatives antac and transparency ukraine. we have met with our colleagues hrojsman, klympusch, marija ionowa, mr parubij and many other colleagues from the verkhovna rada and have been fighting for steps to combat corruption in ukraine. the decision to establish an anti-corruption court is a decision taken in an actively fought struggle for a better future for ukraine. and i think that this vote in the verkhovna rada was really a moment that we should celebrate together. i wish i could raise a glass of champagne here. i know that this decision doesn't win everything. i know this argument is going on. the statement by mr dombrovskis and the active commitment of all european ambassadors and the eu embassy and the imf to reform in ukraine together with the ukrainians this is promising for a successful reform in ukraine. this won't be over tomorrow. i think we're talking about a process that will take a generation. the money we're giving away now is not that crazy compared to other amounts we're giving to other countries, including within the eu, and that's going to help the ukrainians.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. our requests to incorporate macrofinancial assistance to ukraine directly in the law with clear conditions were rejected by the commission, the council and the rapporteur on the grounds that time was short. but to decide such large sums in a hurry is not fair to the cause and not fair to democracy. it is not only my group that is suspected that this hasty decision at this very moment is also a very expensive act of electoral aid to the poroshenko government. i respect, however, that in this situation you were even prepared to accept important demands, including those of the left, mr dombrovskis. the commission has also received comments from the ukrainian authorities, which have not provided any information on the implementation of the measures. for the first time, poverty reduction was set as a goal alongside economic and fiscal constraints. the eu commission will have to report on the social impact of policies and - i add - also on the implementation of these policies and the many laws that have already been mentioned. at the very least , it 's clear: we are also talking about a political step that goes far beyond the significance of a primaries situation in ukraine even if we talk about the overdue installation of the anti-corruption court and the fight against endemic corruption. now prove it in practice! the imf calls for energy prices to be left entirely to market forces. for all households, heating would be another forty percent more expensive. ask commissioner hahn what he thinks of the situation . a cold winter is coming and the government fears social unrest. the commission has already made a number of proposals.
blue-card question. – could you name one other single country which gets macrofinancial assistance, is fighting corruption and has created independent institutions such as a national anti—corruption office and is preparing its own high anti—corruption court? and could you please also tell me what, in london, you are supporting as measures in the city against the international money—laundering systems?
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. cybersecurity cannot be tackled successfully at national level, but only at european level. if we are to make cyberspace safe for our citizens, member states must show even greater willingness to cooperate. i therefore welcome the recently extended mandate for the european network and information security agency (enisa). especially in cybersecurity, the line between military and civilian is often fluid. the public institutions such as ministries and parliaments, as well as the military, are not the only ones affected, but also civilian institutions such as public utilities and the private sector. we therefore need a broader, cross-sectoral discussion on cybersecurity beyond this report. this issue cannot be dealt with only in the field of defence policy, but also in the field of internal, economic and judicial policy. the eu's foreign policy discourse and agenda also need to embed cyberdiplomacy more deeply. the eu should be the driving force behind the development of international standards for cyberspace.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. last week, there was a massive outage at hamburg airport due to a power outage. it wasn't a cyber attack. it was just a normal short circuit. but i think an incident like this one shows very clearly how vulnerable our critical infrastructure is. in recent years, we have seen an increase in cyberattacks from russia, china, north korea, and even from transnational actors. cyber espionage, disinformation campaigns, or even extortion software, ransomware, have become part of our daily lives. the open borders of the internet make it impossible for states to separate. this makes it all the more important for the member states of the european union to work together. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's cybersecurity response is as effective as possible. cyber defence must play a central role in the construction of the european defence union from the outset. this is extremely important to us.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the 13th of june will go down in history. it will go down in history as the day when the european union truly stood up against violence against women and for the protection of women against violence. and fighting against violence should actually not even be a debate here, because, despite our political differences, shouldn’t we all agree that all women in the european union should be able to live a life free from violence? still there is opposition to this convention. there are politicians who are spreading lies in order to block the ratification of this very important convention, and these politicians only have one pre-condition under which they actually care about violence against women, and that is when the perpetrator is a muslim, when the perpetrator is a refugee, when the perpetrator is a stranger – when the perpetrator is somebody who they can politically instrumentalise. and i say to you today: stop these disgusting political campaigns. start doing something for the protection of women against violence, start campaigning for the istanbul convention, because this is the real political tool that you should use in order to prevent violence from happening. stand up for women in europe: support the istanbul convention now!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, members of the other more than 60 artificial sexes! we are talking about "one year istanbul convention". all eu member states have effective national laws and procedures to combat violence against women and men - otherwise they would not have become members of the eu or the council of europe. the istanbul convention is therefore completely unnecessary. it's a politically correct excuse to deepen the absurd gender ideology and nothing else. the istanbul convention rightly responds to rejection and mistrust. the council of europe is even considering printing a lot of colorful brochures with taxpayer money to make the gender nonsense sound better. the istanbul convention is the wrong instrument in the hands of the wrong people. for the record, we are clearly against all gender-based violence against both women and men. but that is a matter for national criminal law, not this superfluous gender convention. commissioner timmermans, please do not complain about violence against women in the eu. they are one of the key players whose policies are actually massively promoting violence against women. with your absurd immigration policy you are actively bringing masses of young men from foreign cultures into the eu area, who despise women and often resort to massive violence against women. more hypocrisy has been rare, commissioner. that is not to be excused by naivety!
prime minister of the netherlands. – mr president, ladies and gentlemen. thank you, president tajani, for your kind introduction, and thank you, the members of the european parliament, for giving me this opportunity to contribute to this series of debates with members of the european council on the future of europe. it is a pleasure and a privilege to be here. winston churchill once said: ‘politics is the ability to foretell what is going to happen tomorrow, next week, next month and next year. and to have the ability afterwards to explain why it didn’t happen.’ churchill was right, we can’t predict the future. unexpected events will always occur. but as politicians, it’s our job to lead and to chart a course. it’s our job to set goals and make choices that help achieve those goals. and looking at europe and the world today, it’s clear: the european union needs to make choices. choices about its course and its role in the years to come. i must say, my personal views on the importance of the eu have evolved over the years. yes, there is a transactional, ‘bread and butter’ element. member states all benefit from the single market, the monetary union and the free movement of people. but it’s just as important that the eu ensures security, stability and the rule of law. the mere fact that we work together, that we are embedded in this union, makes us stronger, safer and more effective. more and more, i’ve come to view the eu in this light. it’s something we in the netherlands felt in the aftermath of the downing of flight mh17 in 2014, and yet again after the decision to hold russia accountable for its part in it. the eu united behind us, jointly calling for russia to accept responsibility and cooperate with efforts to establish the truth and achieve justice and accountability. we are grateful for the support and unity shown by this union. russia has continued in its denial; its baseless criticism of the investigation and its obstruction of the truth are a stark reminder of how much we depend on all parties uniting to achieve justice for the victims and their loved ones, and of the importance of upholding an international, rules-based system aimed at fostering peace and justice. so today, i stand before you with a real sense of urgency. because recent developments make it very clear that we cannot take our way of life, our way of doing business, or our way of conducting international relations for granted. the multilateral order is being challenged in a way that we haven’t seen in decades, and the geopolitical balance of power is shifting. this global dimension of europe’s future is the first thing i’d like to highlight today. because if we want to be able to act, if we want to determine our own future, europe must stand united. now, more than ever. we must deal with the fact that russia has chosen to distance itself from its neighbours in the west. we must deal with the ongoing conflict in syria, and the arc of instability around europe. with countries like china and india, which are stepping up their presence on the world stage, projecting greater self-confidence and a clear agenda. and with all the challenges and opportunities this brings for the eu, as the world’s biggest trading bloc and as a leading force for peace, stability and development. even the relationship with our most important ally is no longer self-evident. the usa has unilaterally pulled out of the paris climate agreement and the iran nuclear deal. it has imposed import duties on steel and aluminium, triggering a debate we thought was obsolete. but of course, we remain friends and allies. i personally have always been a strong believer in the transatlantic bond. we need to keep working as closely as possible with the usa. but we must also deal with the fact that the rules-based multilateral system is under severe pressure. since 1945, that system has greatly benefited europe as a whole and the world around us. indeed, the eu is the most successful example in world history of how multilateralism and the willingness to compromise can bring about unprecedented security, stability and prosperity. the eu is the ultimate example of the power of international cooperation and free trade. we know from experience that progress requires give and take. we know the value of seeking common ground, shared interests and sensible compromise. so let us broadcast a strong message to the world: that europe’s belief in the power of multilateral cooperation and free trade is as firm as ever, and that the eu member states stand united in this, however much pressure we face. i like to compare it to the wagon trains in those john wayne westerns that i watched as a boy. the settlers made a conscious decision to jointly undertake the difficult journey westwards. before setting off, they agreed to stick to certain rules. rules on conduct, speed of progress and care of the sick. and when evening fell, or danger threatened, the settlers circled their wagons. their unity gave them strength, stability and security. it’s the same with the eu. unity is the bedrock of our strength. unity defines our ability to act. sadly, brexit will leave a big hole in our circle. the only positive effect is that it has made the other 27 member states even more aware of the importance of unity and working together. as a founding member, the netherlands is committed to ensuring that our circle stays strong; that the eu remains successful and effective, that it continues to improve the lives of hundreds of millions of people. for the netherlands, eu membership is self-evident. because the single market has brought greater prosperity for more people than the founders of the eu could ever have imagined. thanks to our shared values, most europeans and more europeans than ever before, enjoy legal certainty and protection. but i must be frank. i firmly believe that a truly strong and unified europe must embody that famous quote by goethe: ‘in der beschränkung zeigt sich der meister.’ ‘mastery is revealed in constraint.’ or, to put it another way, ‘less is more.’ more and more europe isn’t the answer to the many problems that people face in their daily lives. for some, ‘ever closer union’ is still a goal in itself. not for me. ‘unity’ and ‘ever closer union’ are not the same. you don’t achieve unity by simply doing more in more areas. you achieve it by doing things really well in a few important areas. so i believe we should be working towards a more perfect union, which safeguards our way of life and delivers practical results. the eu needs to under-promise and over-deliver. because focusing on our core tasks will promote the union’s effectiveness, strength and identity. and it will boost unity. i believe that the future of europe should essentially be about the original promise of europe: the promise of sovereign member states working together to help each other achieve greater prosperity, security and stability. but we can only deliver on this promise if a deal is a deal, and if the difficult compromises we have to make apply to everyone, and in full. europe isn’t a menu you can pick and choose from. that is – and always has been – the basic promise and the basic premise of our unity. so let me be very clear: the debate about the future of the european union should not be about more or less europe. it should be about where the eu can add value. where can cooperation achieve more than the member states can achieve in isolation? where does it make sense for sovereign member states to make a positive and conscious choice to work together? originally, it was the single market and international trade policy. then came emu and the euro. then, more recently, we added the common migration policy, joint control of our external borders and our collective security. of course, there’s climate policy – by definition a cross-border issue. these are the areas where the eu needs to focus, because here europe can achieve more than the sum of its parts. the challenge is to ensure that we do confine ourselves to these areas. and that we actually deliver on them. a europe that adds value, sticks to its core tasks and achieves visible results can count on public support. that is why, once again, we need to under-promise and over-deliver. so for me, the debate on the eu’s future starts with the questions: is the eu still doing the right things? what new priorities are emerging? where does the eu need to do things better, or differently? when it comes to new priorities, climate policy and climate policy is a case in point. the current eu target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40 % by 2030 predates the paris climate agreement. but it isn’t enough. not if we’re to play our part in keeping global warming below two degrees. let alone aim at one-and-a-half degrees, as we agreed in paris. so for a paris-compatible eu target. we need to raise the bar. i am proposing a 55 % reduction in greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. (applause) not only to meet our obligations, but also because a competitive and forward-looking europe is, by definition, a sustainable europe. can it be done? absolutely! as long as we, the member states, commission and european parliament, all make it our goal. that’s what i’m asking you today. together with countries like france, the netherlands wants to lead the way on this new climate ambition, and to work with you to achieve it. exactly as we’ve done before. i still have a very clear memory, dating from the dutch presidency in 2016, of how we tackled the refugee crisis in record time through a big, concerted effort. as co-legislator on border control measures, you played a major role. let us show once again, in this other, more insidious crisis, that europe can take responsibility, and that together we can achieve a great deal. and this brings me to what we need to do better. it’s an important question, because the eu has a tendency to make new agreements before existing agreements have been fully implemented. we all know the ultimate example: the single market. there is so much more we can achieve in the field of services and the digital single market. according to this parliament’s estimate of the cost of non-europe, we’re missing out on over a trillion euros a year. so, with respect to the eu’s original promise and its future: this is what it’s all about. here, too, i have something to ask of you, especially the representatives of the larger member states that are at this moment in no hurry to open up the market for services. i hope you won’t hold it against me, as prime minister of a country with a smaller domestic market and a long history of international trade, for mentioning the elephant in the room. we need to team up to unleash the full potential of the single market. because we can’t pass up an extra trillion euros a year. (applause) another area where we could do better is the eurozone. we’ve come a long way, and the eu has shown that it can take action when it has to. but we are not sufficiently prepared for another crisis. the basic promise of the euro was that it would bring us all greater prosperity – not a redistribution of prosperity. that together we would achieve greater affluence. the pleas now being made to establish a transfer union fly in the face of this promise. yes, i know that a currency union needs stabilisation mechanisms at times of crisis. but if the 19 eurozone countries were to put their own budgets and national debts in order, this would probably be stabilisation enough. that, too, is simply an existing agreement under the stability and growth pact. a deal is a deal. of course, if – after putting its house in order – a country suffers a financial crisis and there’s genuinely no alternative, we should help each other, as good neighbours. we created the esm, our collective safety net, precisely for that purpose. but we need to do things in that order. let’s not forget, we already have hundreds of billions of euros available in the eu budget to support structural reforms at national level. i strongly believe that we should use these resources, these existing resources, to fulfil the original promise of the euro, a higher level of convergence and competitiveness for all. let’s use the tools we already have in place. let’s make sure that the commission and the eurogroup work together to achieve this goal. and yes, of course we must do better on migration. we must be prepared to tackle the next migration crisis. we must resist the unchecked influx of migrants and work harder on return. we really must take steps now to make the european asylum system fair and effective. if we fail to take these measures – collectively – we risk losing the advantages that schengen has brought us. i applaud the work done by the bulgarian presidency on migration, and by the way, i congratulate boyko borisov on his birthday today! mr president, members of the european parliament, the debate about the future of europe, about old and new priorities, is also at the heart of the debate on the next multi-annual budget. to the netherlands, it is only logical that the budget should shrink after brexit. and within that smaller budget, it is only logical that wealthy states should pay more – but not disproportionately so. the netherlands is willing to pay its share, but countries with a comparable level of prosperity must make a comparable net contribution per capita. member states’ financial contributions need to be proportionate and reasonable: that’s how we see it. but figures aside, the netherlands sees the next budget above all as a chance to show that the eu is serious about reform, by re-assigning funds to tomorrow’s priorities. we can’t solve today’s problems with yesterday’s solutions. we can’t face the twenty-first century with a budget that reflects the realities of decades ago. at present, agriculture and structural funds swallow up 70 % of the budget. spending less in these areas will make room for new priorities. we also need to reform the very substance of these policy areas, to make them fit for the future. that, too, is only logical; and it’s necessary. we must show the people of europe that we practise what we preach. because, as the old dutch saying goes: trust arrives on foot and leaves on horseback. in many countries, the eu’s democratic legitimacy, as well as public trust and support, are under pressure. for the future of europe, perhaps our most important task is to regain that trust one step at a time. of course, the democratic legitimacy of the eu has various dimensions. there’s the formal, institutional dimension. and that centres on the fine balance between the members of national parliaments and you. i’m not giving away any secrets when i say that the netherlands attaches great importance to the role of national parliaments. because that is where we must address the question of what member states can do better themselves, and what should be a matter for the eu as a whole. in other words, how taxpayers’ money should be spent. here, in the european parliament, proposals for european laws and rules are discussed, amended and adopted. here, implementation is monitored. and here, plans and proposals by the council and the commission for the future of the eu are weighed and discussed. in this way, national parliaments and the european parliament together provide the eu’s democratic legitimacy. but there’s also a less institutional dimension. because legitimacy and realism are extensions of each other. so the eu needs to listen to what the citizens of the member states want from it. and especially, what they don’t want. and it has to act on that. i believe that delivering on the eu’s basic promise is crucial if support for the eu and unity are to be preserved. yes of course, there can be no democratic legitimacy without the rule of law. let me be crystal clear on that point: ours is a union of laws and values. membership of the eu is not a statement of intent. it means opting unconditionally for freedom of the press, an independent judiciary, legal certainty and all those other democratic achievements that bind us together as a community of values. (applause) it’s literally part of the deal. when you’re in, you’re in all the way. this is a pressing issue for this parliament too, i’m happy to say. those who say that the rule of law is a purely national matter are wrong. the people of europe can flourish only if the rule of law applies in all member states. (applause)our citizens need to trust each other’s legal systems. and businesses need to know that their investments are safe, and that any disputes will be resolved by an independent judiciary. that’s why it’s vital that countries do what they agreed when they signed up as members of the eu, and that the commission monitors this rigorously and independently. ladies and gentlemen, friends, one of the founding fathers of the european union was johan beyen, a post-war dutch minister of foreign affairs. in his memoirs, published in 1968, he refers to the story of the giraffe that julius caesar brought back to rome from one of his campaigns. it’s said that the romans weren’t sure what to call this strange animal. eventually they settled on ‘camelopard’, because it had a neck like a camel and spots like a leopard. beyen wrote: ‘europe is like a giraffe: an animal difficult to define, but easy to recognise.’ and fifty years on, that’s still a good description. because europe’s wealth lies in the diversity of its member states and the regions, the histories, and all the different languages and cultures. that can’t be summed up in a few words. at the same time, europe is easy to recognise as a community of values and as a united partnership. it’s a circle of covered wagons that gives strength and protection, and that’s my core message. we don’t have to agree on everything – and we probably won’t today – in order to recognise the value of unity in a fast—changing world. that unity, ladies and gentlemen, is the future of europe: our future. (sustained applause)
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i want to start by thanking prime minister rutte for praising former dutch foreign ministers. that’s always a good thing to do. listening to prime minister rutte, i was thinking about one of the most important contributions the dutch nation has made to europe, as it now stands. i have to take you back to 1581 when, after a long struggle with the spanish king, the dutch parliament (if you could call it at the time the states general) declared that, since the king did not perform his duty vis-à-vis the dutch population, he had in fact left the throne – vacated the throne. this ‘act of verlatinghe’ is the first document in european history where it said that sovereignty is in the hands of the people, and for them to give to the rulers. i think this has later also been the inspiration for the declaration of independence in the united states and for the declaration of the rights of man and of the citizen in france, and therefore it constitutes, i believe, an essential element of today’s europe and our values. i wanted to take you back briefly to the dutch republic because the dutch republic, once it had obtained its independence and freedom, flourished incredibly to become a world power. and the elements of that were openness; entrepreneurial attitudes; audacity (to try and sail all over the world), but also respect for diversity; curiosity about what is different; openness to other religions and other beliefs; putting an end to persecution of people who had different beliefs. it’s interesting, if you follow dutch history, that in those times when we were open towards what is different, we did well. and in those times when we became introspective, we became afraid of what is different, we set our backs to the outside world, we declined and we became irrelevant in world politics. i think this applies to europe today, and i really, on behalf of the european commission, want to thank the prime minister for the sense of urgency he has expressed today before this parliament. this sense of urgency should be guiding what we do right now, because the unthinkable has become possible. who would have said five years ago that the european union can break up and disintegrate? nobody. it was gratuitous to attack the european union and its institutions, because they were unbreakable anyway. and now we’ve seen, as a consequence of the fourth industrial revolution, as a consequence of all these crises we’ve had, that the european union is not unbreakable – which means that it’s valuable. something that is breakable and fragile can be extremely valuable, and that is the european union. so this is the time for people who believe in the european union to stand up and come together and show unity, and this is precisely what the prime minister has advocated today. and i warmly welcome that. what is creating this brittle element in our union? i believe, to sum it up, it is, arguably, moral hazard. the union functions because member states trust each other that they will do what we agreed collectively. this trust has been eroded over the last ten years: between north and south, east and west, within the west, within the east. if we do not confront the issue of moral hazard, if we do not take that away, if we do not take that out of our union, how could we ask our member states and our people to share their destinies? i can only share a destiny with someone i trust and can rely on when i’m in trouble. if that is not the case, i will withdraw, because it is too risky for me. i believe that is where it starts, and that’s my own very urgent call upon the prime minister, as a member of the european council. if i look back over the last couple of years, what is the issue that has brought the european union to the brink? it’s the issue of migration. the issue of migration has played a key role in all of our member states, wherever we are, and only if we, as a european union, can convince our citizens that we do have an answer to this – not denying migration, not pretending you can solve it by building fences and building walls, not pretending that you can solve it by just letting everybody in – if you understand that we need a comprehensive approach on the migration issue and that only at european level will this comprehensive approach be valuable and work – if we cannot convince our member states and our citizens of that, then we will be in the same situation as the dutch citizens were in 1581. you have vacated your seat because you are not capable to deliver to the citizens what they demand as your sovereign, namely security and management of a migration issue that will be with us for generations. and i would call on the prime minister to use everything he can during the upcoming european council to try and help the bulgarian presidency bring the issue forward. i feel strongly supported by what president tajani said yesterday when he called upon the european council to see what parliament has done in this line of work, to see what parliament and commission have proposed together. i think this is a good basis for a solution of this problem. we cannot leave our member states alone with the issue. this is something europe needs to solve. that is being big on big things. one of the challenges that is new to us, which comes from the outside, is the fact that, for the first time since 1945, we now have a president of the united states who apparently believes that a disunited europe is more in the interest of the united states than a united europe. this is completely new and a paradigm shift. again, this calls for europe to be united, and i, these days, remember very well john f. kennedy going to berlin and at berlin’s worst hour, saying to people in berlin: ‘i am one of you, i am one of you and i will make sure that you will continue to live in liberty’. that’s an american president i am inspired by. also by ronald reagan, going to berlin again and saying to mr gorbachev: ‘tear down that wall’. that is an american president i’m inspired by, and he helped the great european liberators wojtyła and wałęsa to do what was necessary to bring freedom to the whole of europe. that is an american president one can be inspired by. (applause)i would echo what the prime minister said: the foundations of our relations with the united states on the basis of our values are extremely strong and cannot be destroyed by one president and one administration. the more unity europe has on the basis of international rules, on the basis of our values, the more chance we will have to help the americans return to that same path. because we are linked – our destinies are linked – with the americans’ because we share so many values. in conclusion, i would also like to echo what the prime minister said on the nature of our unity. after 1945, our unity was built on a tripod of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights. this tripod is indispensable if we want to maintain and strengthen our union. you cannot use democracy against the rule of law, nor can you use the rule of law against democracy, nor can you use those against respect for human rights. this is, by the way, how it worked in times of dictatorship in eastern europe: when we would criticise democracy, they would say: ‘but our constitution describes it’. so they used their so-called rule of law (which was in fact rule by law) as justification for not having democracy. but you cannot do it the other way round either. you cannot say: ‘because i’ve got a majority, i can do with the rule of law whatever i like. i am the rule of law!’ (applause) if that is your position, you return to the rule by law, which is at fundamental odds with the nature of our union. i want warmly to thank the prime minister for now saying very clearly, on behalf of the dutch government, that, yes, the instruments of the union are important: our common market (and we need to perfect it – a lot to do); our common currency (which is not perfect yet – a lot still to do); finding a budget for the european union (which is not perfect yet; we made a proposal; i think it does comply with some of the criteria set out by the prime minister, but that’s all up for debate – we’ll get there). but all these things have no importance and no value if they are not founded on the basic values that brought europeans together after such a long period of strife and dictatorship. our freedom is founded on our values, not on our markets, not on our currency, but on the values we share. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i wish to welcome the prime minister to the european parliament. it is good to have him here. after the g7 weekend – or should i call it the g6 weekend – i want to focus on external affairs in my contribution today. some would probably say that after donald trump, in three or seven years’ time, the old system of partnership with america will come back, but i don’t think so. i think we are at a historical moment, at a crossroads, and i think we have to decide in which direction we want to go as the european union, as you also said in your contribution. the alternatives are clear: national egoism – that the european union is a community of those who are dreamers of the past, of the empires of our history or whether we are a real global power as europeans. the positive thing is that the decision is in our hands; we decide about our future. the need is obvious. you mentioned mh17. i want to underline that you have the full support of my group and i think of the whole house, that we have to find the persons responsible and that russia has to contribute to an independent investigation. but having this concrete point in mind, prime minister, the key question is: how do we come to conclusions in external affairs in the european union because today, foreign affairs policy is – frankly speaking – horse—trading in the european union. a continent of 27 member states with 500 million people can be blocked by only one country in this european union and we are obviously weak in this regard. we have a friendship group of china inside the council, we have a friendship group of russia inside the council, a friendship group of iran in the european council. you can buy countries at the moment to get influence in this european union and you can block everything.(applause)that is why you have to answer one concrete question. the commission will come up with a proposal to use the lisbon treaty and change the unanimous decision—making process on external affairs, to switch to majority decision—making. if we don’t do so, we will be weak. if we do so, we will be strong. we need your answer on this concrete question. another aspect is our priorities for our external affairs activities. i think the middle east is key; the eu is the biggest donor but with the least impact in the region. can we use our humanitarian power to create peace in syria, yes or no? and on africa, which is probably the biggest priority for all of us, we have to take an open market approach. trade is key for creating development in africa and a marshall plan is needed. there i want to reflect on the mff discussion. you spoke about the mff, and first let me underline that i do not think it is fair when you talk about the proportional burden—sharing in the european union, because the mechanism of financing the european union is clearly linked to gdp: so 1% is 1%, 1.1% is 1.1% and 1.3% – which is the idea of the european parliament – is 1.3%. so it is proportional in every way, so don’t tell the people that this is not proportional what we are doing here; the key question is whether we are ready to finance the strength of the european union when we make new investments in the defence fund, when we make new investments on a marshall plan for africa and when we want to have strong border control, with additional frontex officers, then we have to finance this and you have to finance this. i want to add, on the subject of external affairs, also some general ideas. we need a clear understanding about what is our role as europeans in this global development. today’s world – and frans mentioned this – is dominated by ‘america first’; egoism against partnership. our history was the same, the history of europe: national egoism against partnership. then we had a game—changer; we had the creation of the european union as a game—changer – a way, a mechanism, to find solutions in a civilised way. having this in mind, dear friends, i think the european union is probably a model for today’s world – being less than a nation and more than an international organisation, and a key to solving problems and avoiding conflicts, today’s european union is probably the alternative to the donald trump approach. ladies and gentlemen, if we have this in mind, i think we also have to talk about the hard power of the european union. we are talking about the military activities of our continent. we have done a lot with pesco now in creating a headquarters. please allow me on this aspect only to pick out one detail, because, prime minister, you talked about respecting agreements on a european level, so i want to ask you about the implementation of the pnr agreement because this is also an important security aspect but it is not fully implemented in the netherlands. coming back to military activities, i want to ask you what you think about creating common initiatives in this field. my group believes that in drones and in cyberwar, in new security challenges, we should from the beginning start with eu forces, with eu activities. in the long term, we have to work for a european army, but in the short term i think it would be much more cost efficient if we could do this together from the start. finally, if you allow, i want to say that the headline for our external affairs policy should be what europe is all about. the european union is a force for peace, is a power of peace. in iran we showed that sanctions worked and the treaty works. it is better to have an agreement than to send troops. the same in north korea. and even in ukraine we told our friends that weapons will not create more peace. so europe is a continent which stands on a global level for peace. that is a great image for the future.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, a warm welcome to the prime minister from the social democrats in the house as well. we listened to your speech and i have to admit i like the general idea of talking about urgencies. i like the general idea of talking about leadership, and if i got it right – and i am one of those you will find on the site, i also liked your metaphors, go west, because this is very familiar to this house: we are permanently detecting new ‘territoires’, new areas of our work, we are building europe each and any day from scratch, in a new mode towards a new direction – and if i got it right, you were also talking about john wayne’s spirit, which i like as well. but what do you think about the organisers of a trek to the west where the organisers say to the farmers: ‘well, the ‘territoire’ in front of you is dangerous, you will have bad weather, there is a multiplication on criminal gangs which you have to face, and to make you more efficient i provide you with less water, less food and less horses, and at the end of the day that makes you quicker, and you will with less resources get to the other side in a better way’. what do you think at the end of the day, how many of these farmers would have then ended up in california, and what do you think john wayne would have said to the organisers, once the organisers would have tried to get him on board as a possible scout? so i have questions to this narrative, and i don't think that this narrative is in itself convincing. so please explain your position on the european budget, because this is my metaphor on that. i would also join forces with you and hope that we can have a joint initiative in making clear to mr tusk that dublin reform and that the situation of the refugees in the mediterranean has to be the top priority at the next summit – the top priority. and i would like to echo the interest of the european parliament that nothing is postponed any more. my question is: can you support this position in the best interests of those people who are in danger of drowning in the mediterranean, in the best interests of the dignity of the european union and, to make it very concrete – talking to the experts in the house, for instance to my colleague, liberal colleague in 't veld this morning – also in the concrete legislation? this moment we are discussing, the coreper is discussing the reception directive – close to a compromise. the only potential deal-breaker i hear is the council insisting on a by-principle detention of children. what would john wayne have said to this question that you by principle have to organise the detention of children, to have a reception culture for foreigners and for migrants and for refugees? you could take the lead (talking about leadership immediately), ask one of your guys, of your colleagues, to phone up your ministers and your civil servants in the coreper and clarify on that, so that we perhaps get a solution already today. (applause) again, talking about a joint spirit (john wayne again, forgive me today but it was so close to my heart): what would he have said to the leaders of a country where he had to pay taxes for the coffee he buys, but those who sell the coffee do not need to pay taxes? it would have been potentially a dangerous conversation with him, because what would have been his position on tax havens and the defence of tax havens like you see in the netherlands? (applause) so it’s an interesting question. mein schlusswort auf deutsch. man sagt ja zu recht, dass wir uns gar nicht so unähnlich sind – was wir beide nicht so gerne hören, weder die niederländer noch die deutschen. wir haben euch immer bewundert für die vielen dinge, die frans timmermans aufgezählt hat. wir geben es kaum zu: sogar beim fußball, fußball total. es ist ja kaum einzugestehen, dass wir euch eigentlich sogar dabei gelegentlich bewundern. aber was ihr machen müsst – und das ist mein appell als regionaler nachbar –, herr premierminister: bringen sie die niederländer, bringen sie ihren staat, bringen sie ihre gesellschaft in die erste linie der reform der europäischen union! wir brauchen die niederlande als einen reformfaktor, einen aktiven faktor, um die zukunft europas zu bauen gegen die populisten, gegen diejenigen, die europa kaputt machen wollen. sind sie in der ersten linie, lassen sie uns klartext reden! das entspricht beider mentalitäten. keine ausreden mehr: wir müssen es gemeinsam anpacken.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank prime minister rutte for coming to join this debate and also for bringing in a sense of urgency; i very much appreciate that. thank you also for your very clear words on the rule of law, on the bad situation that we see in several countries in the european union. my question directly on that would be what exactly are you – what exactly are the netherlands – going to do in council to support the article 7 procedure on poland but also, when it goes beyond poland, what exactly are you going to do? i really appreciated your words as well about how unity works and how we all depend on each other because i think this is really true. we do depend on each other. if we work together well then we can all benefit from that, but if we work apart, then we will all lose out. you mentioned climate change as the obvious example of that, and i very much agree with that and i can only applaud the proposal you made on further reducing co2 emissions to 55% in the european union. this is a really good way forward because climate change is a threat to humanity and we need to act. we need to get our act together and we have to move first because if we don’t, no one else will do so. but of course in order to achieve that, you will also have to talk with your colleagues and your neighbours. you will have to make sure you get a majority in council because we in parliament are not actually the problem – the others are the problem! – and the problem is the council, so please go ahead, put some pressure on your colleagues to make sure that we get to that aim. talking about dependency, i would also like to mention the fact that we are very much dependent on each other in economic terms. the economy is, i understand, a very central point in how you view the european union, and even how you view the world. you have said that everyone needs to put their house in order. i think that’s not the first time you have said that you; you have said that repeatedly. but putting your house in order doesn’t work if you say everyone puts their house in order and everyone does their thing and then all will be well. this is because we have a common market, we have a current common currency, we are all interlinked and our economies are interlinked, so if one wants to export, someone else needs to import. this is how it works. we are all interdependent on that, and if everyone has to save and save and save, then who’s going to drive demand? you’ve been very critical again here today of others not getting their budget in order, but i would say one of the reasons other countries are not managing to put their budget in order is because of you – it’s your government and previous dutch governments which, by being a tax haven, through a long history of blocking and frustrating and delaying european action against tax avoidance. (applause from certain quarters) with that you are taking away other countries’ income. tax dodging by companies leads to costs of eur 15 to 17 billion a year in the european union. that’s money missing from our taxpayers. you have just agreed in the netherlands – to please, apparently, multinationals like unilever and shell – to give a tax break to companies that will cost the dutch taxpayers 1.6 billion a year. out of the 20 largest companies in portugal, 19 used dutch letterboxes to avoid paying taxes in the midst of the economic crisis. so while portugal was attacked for not saving enough, while in portugal there were severe austerity measures, it was actually your country that helped companies avoid pay the taxes that would have helped portugal. (applause)so how do you expect portugal to get its house in order, and why do you not cooperate with your colleagues in the council instead of competing with them? less tax competition would actually be more in this case! promoting the single market might sound very pro—european in the context that we are all getting used to, but just sticking to free trade, deregulation, liberalisation, that is the recipe for a status quo. we need to get to a social union – we should not forget that the european union is not just a market, it is a place where people live, work, experience inequalities, have social insecurities – and that’s where we need to get. we need to get to a social union because if we’re not having more social union, if we’re not having more solidarity in the european union, then we’re not getting anywhere. the european union should be more social, should have more solidarity or it will have difficulties being. (loud applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very grateful to you, mr prime minister, for your speech, which made it clear that you want to pursue a realistic, serious but also forward-looking european policy. and i think that's well structured and that's far-sighted, also given the international situation that we're in right now. but you must also give the european union the necessary instruments. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. i ask you to resolve this contradiction. if we are now discussing the question of migration, if we are to have effective external border controls, then the money must be made available. we cannot say: 'europe must solve the problem' and then not give the money for it, then not give the decision-making mechanisms for it. in this way, europe is once again blamed in the eyes of the public for not making progress. but in reality, by denying the instruments, the nation states have made a solution impossible. i would ask your opinion on this.
mr president, prime minister, i agree with your sentiments that the european union has to be a more perfect union. what does it mean, more perfect? from my point of view, it means we need a more common political interest all over the european union in being stronger. we have to be more responsible, more ecological, more social, more effective, and we need a common asylum system in order to be better in all these questions of refugees and migrants. there we can do better. that would be a more – and better – perfect union. and with that, i come to the mff. i was very disappointed when i read in the newspaper that you, prime minister, said: oh, we have brexit, the uk will be leaving; we will be a smaller union, so we will have a smaller budget. no, that is not true, because we have bigger challenges; we want to be more responsible; we want to perform well on the global stage. therefore, we have to answer the question: where does the money come from? it must come, to a large extent, from new own resources and, in particular, environmental taxes and a digital tax. be ready to make the new tech giants pay to the national and the european budget. that would be a wonderful solution and european citizens would profit from that.
mr president, mr vice-president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. they said, and i'll get to that in a minute, less is more and a deal is a deal. i would like to thank you very, very much for your clear statements, mr prime minister. i fully support you, but i would like to ask again about the question of a lean europe: in what areas will the european union be retreating in the future? do you have any specific suggestions? you rightly asked in our round: is the eu still doing the right thing? if i ask you again, what is your answer? are we really doing the right thing, or what would you do differently? that's my question. and of course i would also like to take the liberty of returning this question to you in the light of the debates on the european budget. i would like to give my full support to my colleague elmar brok. we must discuss the tasks facing europe. but the tasks for which we are responsible in the european union must also be properly financed. only then can we deliver, only then can we deliver what we have promised to the citizens. and i believe that, given the many new challenges, we simply cannot avoid a moderate increase in the european budget. so please, no apodictic "no", but a little more flexibility in the area.
mr president, prime minister, you mentioned – and rightfully so – that with brexit, europe would be faced with a big hole, but you also talked about the things that prime minister churchill said, that unexpected things can happen. brexit will not only have a tremendous negative impact on britain, but also on the european union. we talked recently to the heads of the port of rotterdam, who confirmed that. i would therefore like to ask you to take the initiative, because i have not met one person to the right of me in this parliament, and to your left, who does not regret brexit. take the initiative and make britain another offer for more autonomy in immigration, so as to avoid brexit at the last minute. without britain, europe will never be complete and will never be credible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr president, you have both mentioned the principle of the rule of law. it is also possible to say that if there is no rule of law, there will be no europe for a long time. but let's look at the eurozone. mrs lagarde said that we had to break the treaties to save the euro. and everything i see in the eurozone is not the rule of law. the question is always: what do we have to do to keep the eurozone together, even against the law? and now we know how fragile this institution is because it was designed wrong. and we are not saying that we have to eliminate the wrong construction, but we are introducing funds now. we set up funds when people have broken the law so they won't break the law in the future. i can only say that anyone who develops the eurozone in this way will always be faced with moral hazard, mr timmermans. what's the use of trying in my own country when others cover up my mistakes and reward me for them?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. dear prime minister, thank you for being here today. you spoke in your speech about solidarity and about improving life in the european union. i have to ask you, is it a solidarity move for 40% of corporate profits to go to tax havens? or is it solidarity that we take the money and make sure that people in europe have better living conditions? is it a matter of solidarity that we invest more money in erasmus? is it a matter of solidarity that we invest more money in an interrail ticket? and is it solidarity that we are ending youth unemployment in europe and not putting corporations in tax havens? that is my definition of solidarity. and so my clear question is: do you think it is necessary to tax companies fairly in countries all over europe to help europeans?
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i refer to rule 158 (2) of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, which states that 'every member shall have the right to speak in parliament in the official language of his or her choice. the proceedings in one of the official languages shall be simultaneously interpreted into all the other official languages and into any other language deemed necessary by the bureau. in order to guarantee this fundamental right of members, in order to be able to provide the highest quality of services, interpreters must have adequate working conditions. the european parliament must ensure that these services are provided under good conditions in the european democracy, that there is a good balance between work and private life and that the physical and mental health of the staff is not compromised. we, the left group of the gue/ngl, therefore stand with the interpreters who are fighting back against the deterioration of their working conditions. no matter how difficult negotiations are, in the end, there must be an outcome that both sides can support. (applause from the centre)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr corrao, you said that italy was left alone by all the other countries of the european union. is it true that germany has taken in many more refugees than italy? and is it true that germany is taking 50 refugees a month outside the quota specifically from italy to help you?
since 2000, more than 35 000 people have drowned in the mediterranean sea while trying to flee. the inability of the european union - and here especially of the european council - to put an end to this man-made disaster is intolerable. the european parliament has long since put forward proposals to put an end to this disaster. but the council is politically unwilling. now this anti-human rights policy has reached a new peak: the italian minister of the interior, salvini, of the neo-fascist lega, has banned the aquarius ship of sos mediterranee and doctors without borders from entering an italian port. there were 629 people on the ship in need. salvini would have been obliged to take them on under international law. he's blocking the port, and he's violating human rights! as a socialist, i am pleased that the new spanish government has agreed to take in the people. the criminalisation of those who defend human rights through their practical actions must end. they deserve our solidarity. the council must finally live up to its responsibility to stop the deaths in the mediterranean and implement a refugee policy based on human rights! the council is requested to: the dublin reform must now be put into effect!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. 50 million people, or 22% of the workforce in europe, work in regulated professions, which require the possession of certain qualifications or in which the holding of a certain title is protected, such as pharmacy or architecture. for a number of occupations, such as health and safety, special regulation of occupational entry conditions is often justified. however, at european level, there are repeated cases in the 28 member states of the european union where excessive, cumbersome and outdated regulations disproportionately hinder the access of qualified applicants to professions. the member states of the european union have co-decided, through the ordinary legislative procedure, to recognise the principle of proportionality as a general principle of law in the european union not only in primary law but also in the professional qualifications directive. the european court of justice has also repeatedly upheld the principle of proportionality in the area of the exercise of professional rights which may be restricted by the member states. directive 2005/36, as last amended in 2013, currently provides that member states are to examine the proportionality of their own requirements restricting access to or the pursuit of regulated professions and to submit the results of that examination to the commission. the member states may still decide on these rules and regulations themselves, provided they respect the principles of primary law and the principle of proportionality. on this basis, however, the commission has found that the member states have unfortunately not been as successful in exercising the principle of proportionality as they had promised themselves and the commission in the past years, and has therefore put forward a new proposal on how the principle of proportionality in the vet directive can be defined in a more precise and better way in the future. and even if the european legislator had doubts about whether it would be useful to repeat this principle and to clarify it in the final analysis, the many examples that the commission has presented have convinced us. that is why we in the committee on the internal market have managed to get through with a large majority in the end, to work very hard and quickly on this legislative proposal. i am grateful to all my colleagues, especially the shadow rapporteurs, for having succeeded in reaching a very consensual solution here. the new directive therefore sets a european-wide standard for the criteria to be analysed and observed by the authorities of the member states in the context of the proportionality test, and thus in future it will be quite clear what proportionality means in terms of the regulation of professions and what effects, rules and opportunities need to be adapted to the principle of proportionality in the future. i believe that the main progress we have finally made in this report is that we have been able to clarify matters for the health professions, which must also be subject to the general principle of proportionality, because it is ultimately up to the courts to decide what requirements to make of the principle of proportionality. secondly, i believe it is important that this directive should also provide for the crossborder provision of services, in addition to the directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, only with proportionate requirements, so that the exercise of professional activities in the european internal market is not disproportionately restricted. thirdly, we were clear from the outset that this directive was not intended to deregulate but to clarify the principle of proportionality, and we have thus in many places not followed the impetus of deregulation, which we supposedly had, but have ensured that sensible regulation based on the legislation of the member states will remain as possible in the future as it is now. finally, it is important to me that we have been able to give an account to the craft sector, which in many places provides an important service to our economy and society, not only by recognising compulsory membership of the chamber, but also in other places, that we consider the master's degree programme as a particularly important contribution to the training of young people. finally, it is of course important, also in the context of this legislative project, that subsidiarity, i.e. the guarantee of the legislative mandate on the basis of the member state level, is maintained and we have all promised each other that we will not question the competence of the member states, provided they respect the principle of proportionality. i believe that in the context of the proposal for notification, which will be discussed at a later stage and which will then require the member states to submit appropriate measures for the regulation of professions to the european commission for its consideration, we will be able to improve the framework for the exercise of regulated professions in the european union, in the european internal market, through this proposal. i hope that in the end all the member states will respect it. in conclusion, i would like to thank once again all the colleagues who have worked with me. i hope that this is a small but hopefully useful step towards the european single market.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am very critical of the commission's proposal, as you know, for two reasons: i think that the commission has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is given the opportunity to express its views on the matter. we already have proportionality criteria in article 59 (3) of the vet directive, and there are a number of decisions of the european court of justice in which these criteria have been explained in detail again. we do not lack the legal framework, it already exists. i share the commission's view that the member states are indeed very inventive in their attempts to isolate their markets and to create barriers to entry. i fully agree with the analysis. but we're not going to solve the problem by making new rules, we have to do it. the commission must then also take strong, decisive action against known obstacles, and that is simply lacking. i do not think that we are solving a problem by revising this proportionality directive. on the contrary, we are restricting some good legislation in the member states. i would simply like the commission to take a very strong stance against the member states and to remove the obstacles where it has become aware of the existence of such restrictions, obstacles and barriers. it would be ten times more sensible and efficient than creating new rules again, as is now being proposed here.
the commission has already done so. the cotonou agreement established a comprehensive basis for the relations of the european union and its member states with the 79 countries of africa, the caribbean and the pacific. this agreement expires in 18 months. there is not much time left - i think - to negotiate the continuation of the present agreement or a new version. it is all the more regrettable that the council has not yet given the commission a negotiating mandate in may and that the negotiations have not been able to start as planned on 1 june. the acp partners are already prepared. since the cotonou agreement entered into force in 2000, progress has not been halted. for example, china has long since overtaken europe in influence in many acp countries. the cotonou agreement is not only about trade relations and development cooperation, but also about promoting political dialogue and the treatment of human rights issues. the european development fund, the main financial instrument for development cooperation with the acp states, is also limited to 2020. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. the question of the future shape of the eu's relations with the acp states is still very much open. we have already set them out in our oral question. they need to be answered quickly. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is due to meet again next week. i hope that this time more colleagues from the european parliament will take part than in the previous meetings. we owe it to our colleagues from the acp states.
i have to say, madam president, have you ever been to kiribati in the pacific? do you know the caribbean island of samaná? have you ever been to bangui, the capital of the central african republic? commissioner mimica, you know that development work in these three regions is about as much a part of each other as apples, rice and sweet potatoes. we are therefore faced with a core problem in our acp policy, and i regret to say that i do not see any fundamental change in the post-cotonou process either. we need a strong regional policy for the acp. let us devote ourselves to africa, the caribbean and the pacific together, but still separately! let us pursue our development policy in a pragmatic way, not in an ideological way. let us support local projects instead of the budget of corrupt regimes in palaces, and let us create funds to finance development, to prevent flight! let's take a chance on the financial transaction tax. we have more courage than macron and scholz combined! let's tax the super-rich to help the poorest. that is my wish for the future of the acp.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not looking at the public consultation on the implementation of the roma framework strategy, it is clear that there has been only marginal improvement since 2011, and almost a third of those surveyed believe that the situation has actually worsened. in particular, health, employment, housing, education and the fight against discrimination are absolute failings in the member states - one could say everything. there is no single relevant measure and this was our concern in 2011 to combat discrimination against roma communities and to combat racism. what we really need urgently, before any action can be taken at all, is binding measures to this end. the next strategy must therefore focus on discrimination and racism and ensure effective mainstreaming in policy areas, at eu level and in the member states, and that this is binding. the final sentence: we do not want the future roma strategy to be somehow merged into a poverty strategy. we need a different strategy if we're really serious about this.
the commission has already done so. every 20 minutes, an elephant is killed by poachers. the eu is the largest exporter of ivory products, although we all know that any trade contributes massively to the continuation of the cruel slaughter. only an eu ban on ivory trade without exception could save elephants from extinction. no exceptions, i say! or do you want to tell your children and grandchildren someday that there are no elephants because our decisions were not consistent enough? do you have the courage to tell your children and grandchildren the whole truth, that the political establishment has made itself an accomplice to these heinous crimes for economic reasons? elephants have been living on this planet for ten million years. we simply cannot allow this wonderful species to be exterminated for profit. it's high time we stopped the planetary campaign of extermination of our species. we only have one earth. it is our duty to preserve them, not to serve the economy! the citizens now expect a clear political response. there is nothing left to negotiate, but there is nothing left to negotiate, because we are running out of time. you're gonna make nails out of heads! i tell you, no exceptions!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. in cultural dialogue, we shape our values and our understanding of history, negotiate how we humanly approach global issues -- whether it's in a movie or a comic, literary or musical, it doesn't matter. cultural dialogue is a food. access for all is crucial. the key is to increase intercultural education in and outside schools. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme and will continue to monitor the implementation of the programme. the rapporteur has done a good job and has been cooperative. the report therefore makes a clear reference to the needs of the cultural and creative industries. this growing industry must not be a model for a working world in which social security is unknown. in addition, artists working across borders are subject to multiple taxation. that has to change soon. what is not yet specifically mentioned in the report are more moderate copyright regulations and thus also extended exceptions for our cultural memory institutions such as museums, archives, libraries. i will continue to dig and conclude by saying that we should all bear in mind one thing: culture costs everyone, but lack of culture costs us all more.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. i am not going to go into the details. corruption is a cancer that threatens to destroy our democracy and to hit the european union in the face. we have just heard from the commission that it considers the fight against corruption to be important, but at the same time that it will refrain from publishing these reports regularly in the future. the decision to launch the european semester and to publish the situation of corruption in the country reports is not enough. the member states do not want to be criticised, of course, and i understand that. but the people want something to happen. they see the damage that is being done to them as taxpayers, and they want to see that remedied. the populists have an easy game. they can promise a lot, they can be generous with money. but when it comes to solving real problems, they fail. we all know that the eu still has weaknesses. but we also know that corruption is one of the biggest weaknesses we have to deal with. we have to do something about it. the member states must not be able to prevent the european public prosecutor from investigating corruption cases in their regions in a very targeted and systematic way. we're seeing this happening right now in malta. the journalist who exposed corruption cases was murdered a few weeks ago. neither the corruption cases are systematically investigated, nor is the murder itself specifically investigated. it almost seems as if everything is covered up under the cloak of silence. this is not how it works. we know that these european elections will be, in a way, fateful elections, which are of crucial importance for all of us. we must see that europe is actually equated with its future for the majority of its citizens. europe is our future, we have no other. and that is why it is important that we bring europe back into the minds and hearts of our citizens, and especially the young. the time for excuses is over. the same applies to the commission. we can't preach water and drink wine. i can only appeal to you to start publishing the anti-corruption reports systematically again. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. in fact, i find this very sensible and very useful. we know that since islamic terrorism has spread throughout the region, it is not only financed by its own resources, by occupied oil wells, etc., but also systematically financed by some states that have an interest in the fact that forced islamism gains ground. so it is important that we gain more insight here too and ensure that our financial system is not weakened by such developments and eventually even brought to its knees.
a writer. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. dear football fans, dear football players all over the world! we know that football is the most beautiful side thing in the world. but there is a deep and long shadow over this world cup in russia. when oleh senzow, the filmmaker from the ukrainian crimea, went on hunger strike a month ago, he said: if i die before or during the world cup, there will be a resonance in favour of the other political prisoners of vladimir putin. our resolution is an attempt to take seriously the desperation of oleh senzow and to support his demands. there are hundreds of them in russian prisons, penal and labor camps in the gulag archipelago of today. minorities in russia, the opposition are persecuted, repressed and criminalized. in the four years since the sochi olympics ended, vladimir putin has done nothing to make the world more peaceful. he made her more unhappy. there can be no uninterrupted visits by western politicians, no uninterrupted evenings with vladimir putin in the stadiums of russia. it's sad, but it's true. i do not understand what the excitement about german footballers meeting with president erdoğan is worth if western politicians are being exploited by vladimir putin's show of glory in the coming days. the path of the politicians from the west should lead to siberia, and they should visit oleh senzow and others in these brutal penal colonies.
a writer. the commission is not the five-year sentence handed down last week to human rights activist nabil rajshaab in bahrain speaks for itself. the authorities in bahrain are not willing to respect fundamental freedoms. we therefore call in our resolution for the unconditional release of nabil rajchab and all other nonviolent political prisoners. we call on the representatives of the european external action service, the european council and the member states to address human rights violations in bahrain on a regular basis. the implementation of targeted sanctions against those responsible must also be considered. and it is unacceptable that european companies continue to provide surveillance technology to the bahraini government and thereby contribute to the repression of civil society actors. all eu member states must ensure strict compliance with export restrictions on arms and surveillance technology. and i would ask the rapporteur, mr bannerman, to check where he got his information. our information didn't come through iran, it came through really reliable sources.
a writer. the commission is not in february, we members of parliament in cox's bazar refugee camp got a realistic impression of the efforts of international aid organisations to provide the most basic needs of the rohingya who have fled or been displaced. we quickly realized that the demand was much higher. the situation is particularly difficult for children, who lack access to adequate psychological and medical care, education and protection from exploitation. the international community must urgently provide funds for humanitarian aid, especially in view of the approaching monsoon. the rohingya are living in this miserable situation because they were driven out by extreme violence. the impunity of those responsible must end, if the return of the rohingya to myanmar is to be possible in the long term. the eu and its member states should actively support criminal justice processes in myanmar, for example through the international criminal court. an international, impartial and independent mechanism at un level should be established to collect and evaluate evidence of serious crimes in rakhine state. in this context, the myanmar government must finally allow access to independent observers, especially the un fact-finding mission, to investigate allegations of serious human rights violations.
a writer. the commission is not what we feared has unfortunately come to pass. the situation of the rohingya, who fled their homes to bangladesh a year ago because of the violent crackdown by the myanmar military and police, has not changed. no one has been able to return to their home country, despite agreements already reached between myanmar and bangladesh with the assistance of the united nations. on the contrary, the situation in the world's largest refugee camp has worsened with the onset of the monsoon. the first deaths in bangladesh have already been reported. the rohingya refugee camps have also seen deaths. landslides have destroyed the few sanitation facilities and drinking water supplies, and the shabby dwellings have been washed down the hills. there is a threat of plague. the worst hit are the most vulnerable: the children who have now been virtually without schooling for a year and are at risk of abuse and human trafficking. the international community must honour its promises to help the refugees. the european union is also calling for the release of all political prisoners, including those who have been held in custody, and for the release of all political prisoners. china, which has a great deal of influence over the military in myanmar, should be brought in to help resolve the issue. the situation has been further aggravated by the outbreak of civil war in the shan and kachin states of myanmar. once again, people have been forced to leave their villages, thousands have been displaced, and hundreds have already died. myanmar remains a problem and we should keep a close eye on it.
the president has received a request from the alde group to appoint mrs mirja vehkaperä as a member of the development committee and the delegation to the eu-russia parliamentary cooperation committee. no comment at all? these designations are therefore confirmed. i have a point of order from mr bullmann. there you go!
madam president, this saturday is the second anniversary of the horrific murder of british member of parliament jo cox. jo was a former staff member here in the european parliament and colleagues remember her for her compassion, her openness and her determination to campaign for progressive change. hatred, xenophobia and extremism have extinguished a bright spark in our political life. while jo was a member of our political family, she would work across the political spectrum, and so we should all take a moment to remember jo cox and the ideals for which she stood. as she told us, in her words, i quote: ‘we have far more in common with each other than things that divide us.’ thank you president, thank you colleagues and thank you to jo cox, who will never be forgotten where european citizens meet. (loud applause)
thank you very much, mr. bullmann. we will never forget all those who have fought and worked for democracy, freedom and justice, and who have lost their lives or suffered in the process. it's good to be reminded of that. (parliament rises to honour the memory of mrs jo cox) mrs atkinson has spoken.
thank you very much, mrs atkinson. this is not a motion for a resolution. i have a point of order from mrs spinelli. (interruptions and disturbances in the chamber) i ask for silence and let mrs spinelli speak!
i am not going to go into detail. i shall now ask that when a motion for a resolution is tabled, the first item to be mentioned is the rule. (applause from the centre)
the next item on the agenda is the vote.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. what's the matter? the committee on budgets has already adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in member states concerning the taking-up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions. what are we afraid of? is it so unusual that controversial issues are dealt with in plenary? if we no longer want that, if we no longer want all elected meps to have a say, then let us abolish the plenary altogether and use only committee votes as a basis for negotiations! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. no more, no less than that.
a motion for a resolution on the rules of procedure on what basis, please?
we are no longer in a debate, mr marinescu, but in a vote. we cannot reopen the debate. we have now heard one for and one against and we shall proceed to the roll-call vote.
rapporteur. – madam president, i have to say that i like karima very much – she is our chair – but in that sense she is not right – i have to say that. why? because we have found a good compromise, a compromise between most of the groups within parliament. we have worked for weeks on this compromise, and when you look at the signature and also at the decision which has been taken in the shadow meetings and in the committee on transport and tourism, we found a big majority, and this is the difference with the two dossiers which we have voted on before. on cabotage there is a big majority within parliament and also within the committee, therefore it wouldn’t make any sense to challenge this dossier also. this is totally different. we have a balanced approach and we have been successful, therefore i support it and i would like to invite you to vote in favour and not send it back.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and its implementation in the member states, in particular through the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the implementation of the union's policy on the environment, in particular through the implementation of the union's policy on the environment and the implementation of the union's policy on the environment. the commissioner was unfortunately late because of traffic problems, but unfortunately we cannot wait any longer. i think he'll be here in a few minutes. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a brief explanation of his position.
i shall take that as a comment on the rules of procedure. and i assume that mr schaffhauser will accept a question from mr mamikins just as he would have accepted a question from mr jakovčić.
ladies and gentlemen, i have no comments on the procedure for spontaneous comments. i will inform the president and ask him how we are going to proceed in this matter.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
mr president, i actually have a point of order. thank you, first, for your words on the roma in ukraine. regarding the council meeting that took place last week – and i’m sure we have different views on the outcome, and we are going to discuss that tomorrow – there is one point on which i think we should all stand united. mr president, you, and all of us, have said how important it is that the council takes a step forward on the reform of the dublin regulation, on which we have found a majority within this house. the council conclusions say that they want to find a consensus on dublin among themselves, which, first of all, means that it won’t happen and, secondly, means that they plan totally to ignore parliament and to ignore co—legislation. this is something that we cannot let happen. we cannot let ourselves be ignored. i really hope, mr president, that you can send a very strong and swift message to the heads of state and government that we will not be ignored as co-legislators. (applause)
i think respect in this house is something that is very important to be reminded of.
i have to say, madam president, the german social democrats support progress in the eu's common security and defence policy and want to make european defence capabilities more efficient and effective through a pooling-and-sharing approach. however, we are opposed to european subsidies to the defence industry in the member states without actually achieving these efficiency gains. weapons are not ordinary commercial goods and should also be considered as a foreign and security policy instrument. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if european funds are spent on armaments, then there must also be parliamentary control by the european parliament over the products developed from them. we demand that, in accordance with the s&d position paper on the eu's common security and defence policy, which we adopted last year, no money from existing budget lines should be invested in the defence industry. that is precisely what this text is intended to do. the present results of the trilogue between the commission, the member states and parliament do not in any way reflect the position of the european parliament. i therefore recommend that we vote against this text.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, tuesday 3 july 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by maria gabriela zoană, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on integrated farm statistics and repealing regulations (ec) no 1166/2008 and (eu) no 1337/2011 (com (2016) 0786 - c8-0514/2016 - 2016/0389 (cod)) (a8-0300/2017).
the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the european parliament. the commission is not in 2007, after more than 20 years of negotiations, the united nations adopted a declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples. for the first time, it recognized the right of indigenous peoples to self-determination and control over their land and the resources it contains. significantly, the governments of four countries that until recently were not even willing to grant citizenship to the original inhabitants of their countries voted against it: the united states, canada, australia, and new zealand. like all united nations declarations, this un declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples will only become effective if it is incorporated into legally binding international treaties or national legislation. but it is lacking. so the rights of indigenous peoples continue to be violated in most cases when it comes to the exploitation of resources located in their settlement area. their right to self-determination and the preservation of their culture is not respected. even the only existing standard for the legal protection of indigenous peoples, ilo convention 169, has been ratified by only a few states. the eu and its member states often praise themselves for their commitment to human rights, while pointing the finger at others. the eu has largely failed to recognise the rights of indigenous peoples to self-determination and, in particular, to protect them from the theft of their land. the report draws attention to this and calls on the eu and the member states to finally give legal force to the right of indigenous peoples to live and own property.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. child and forced marriage have become a problem in europe with the mass migration of recent years. young women in particular are often only 12 or 13 years old. there is no question of a voluntary, conscious decision to marry at that age. how are we supposed to handle this? should we recognize such marriages as a right from another culture? no, not ever! for there is no such thing as a voluntary marriage. i myself experienced this with an african woman who was married at age 14 to a man in his 60's and who very soon had a daughter. she wanted to escape from this marriage and was threatened with death by both her husband and the family for bringing shame on the family. so i am glad that in the new resolution i helped draft, we call for: in europe, marriages are to be recognised only if both partners are over 18 years of age. unfortunately, that's not the law. the eu can only make a recommendation to the member states. nevertheless, it has made it more likely that both spouses will enter into a relationship voluntarily and knowingly, and that their children will receive appropriate parenting from adult parents. the resolution also recommends that member states grant women a residence permit which is independent of that of their husbands. a given, but often unfulfilled.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance the commission is not prepared to accept this. forced and child marriages in the middle ages were long ago overcome. mrs merkel's uncontrolled mass immigration has brought her to europe tens of thousands of times over. we do not want this form of violence against minors. it brings immeasurable suffering. but in parallel societies, this is the order of the day. the cause of this practice is we call the evil by its name the sharia. it is not poverty and patriarchy that are the causes of forced and child marriage, but islam in the first place. the report misses the opportunity to make this clear. it is right to have a foreign policy to combat forced and child marriage. but we must also sanction these crimes at home. marrying a nine-year-old is child abuse, nothing more. anyone who does this must be prosecuted. contrary to the report, it is not only men who are responsible, but also women, mothers who are actively involved in the forced marriage of their children. all of this has to stop. we must set clear legal limits to this.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. madam president, ladies and gentlemen of the commission! i am very pleased that we are discussing the own-initiative report on climate diplomacy from the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on the environment in the plenary today. we have produced a very comprehensive text and i would like to thank above all the excellent cooperation between the various groups, including all the shadow rapporteurs who have contributed to the success of this paper in recent weeks. it is time for the european parliament to include climate diplomacy on its external agenda. but if the eu is to make a credible international commitment to the paris agreement climate goals, it must first do its own homework. european climate policy must be ambitious, and it must also be clearly based on its own commitments and promises and play a significant part in helping less able countries to implement international climate standards. to enable the eu to take a leading role in the international implementation of the paris agreement climate goals, we must first strengthen the european external action service in the field of climate diplomacy in terms of staff and finances. this includes enabling eu delegations in third countries to integrate the issue more fully into their portfolio. this new recruitment must also be reflected in the eu's next multiannual financial framework. against this background, i call on the european commission to follow up the calls made in the report and to strengthen eu climate diplomacy in a fiscal and sustainable way, to actively and intensively involve it in future legislative initiatives. the european parliament must also firmly establish climate diplomacy on its foreign policy agenda. given the cross-competency nature of the issue, parliament's approach to climate diplomacy must also involve other policy areas. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. this would be a direct approach and the application of the 2030 development goals, the sustainable development goals, which can and must be well linked here. given that climate change and its consequences are not just a political issue, i am particularly pleased that pope francis's encyclical laudato si', which also makes a strong reference to the issue, has been included as a reference point in the report. i would like to take another practical example from trade policy, which will also be used in future agreements and in other policy areas, but also in trade policy and in free trade agreements. we have seen this with ceta and now with the free trade agreement with japan which is currently being negotiated. the european parliament, through its parliamentary networks, its delegations in partner countries and in the framework of delegation visits, must further advance its climate policy agenda and, in its diplomatic efforts, include the climate goals as part of the sustainable development goals as an integral part of bilateral and unilateral dialogues. the european commission and the european external action service should develop a strategy for eu climate diplomacy in close cooperation with the european parliament and the member states. their implementation and revision must be reviewed regularly. the european parliament will be asked to identify in its reports the successes and gaps in the eu's climate diplomacy efforts and to make proposals for future directions. regional level is becoming increasingly important for successful climate policy, alongside international summits such as the g7 and g20. cities and regions, from local actors to town halls, are often the key actors in implementing climate policy demands and the sustainable agenda. they should therefore be integrated into and taken into account in eu climate diplomacy policies, even as the eu travels around the world. the same applies to civil society and science. these networks are particularly important for publicity campaigns and international persuasion. i would like to conclude by thanking once again my co-rapporteur, jo leinen, for the excellent cooperation, but also the committee secretariats, also for the hearing we have held on this subject, and i look forward to a productive debate.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. climate change is a global challenge, and it can only be tackled by global cooperation. the eu is, of course, a pioneer in climate action and has done a lot of good work. but europe alone cannot protect the climate. we need partners in the world, and as we know, we need partners at all levels. we need governments, but we also need civil society, the local level, the regional level, the business, the science. this is the subject of our report: how can we develop an instrument together with all the institutions that the eu has, not just the commission, not just the council, but also the parliament and our agencies how can we promote the implementation of the paris agreement in a coherent, strategic and also credible way. as mr lietz has already said, we want eu policy on climate change to be coherent, that is to say, to be mainstreamed into all other policy areas, above all, of course, into trade policy, development policy and security policy. and here is my first question to commissioner arias cañete: can we imagine that the trade agreements we conclude are conditional on the countries with which we conclude agreements also ratifying and implementing the paris agreement? we see that countries that do not do this then gain unfair advantages. we had this big conference recently on the relationship between climate change and security policy. indeed, water shortages, droughts, storms, and heavy rains can threaten the livelihoods of millions of people and thus their security, as we have already seen in some countries. the eu's foreign and security policy should be geared to the fact that we have early warning systems and that we also base our strategies on them. there is an example of strategic partnerships, commissioner: we have been cooperating with china for many years on an emissions trading system - this is certainly a success story - and i would also say that we are cooperating with other countries on specific issues, particularly on the phase-out of fossil fuels, the development of renewable energy and other policies we need to protect the climate. i would also like to ask mr arias cañete: to what extent has the commission prepared for us to establish thematic cooperation with cities, regions and other countries? we need a credible climate policy in our country. katowice will be the next test case. we believe that the eu should raise its climate target for 2030. i also have a question for commissioner arias cañete: is it possible that we can increase the 40% co2 reduction target already agreed before katowice in the light of the legislation we have already adopted? it would certainly be pleasing if we could also present the longterm strategy up to 2050 to ourselves and to our partners in the world after katowice. i too was delighted to work on this report. thank you, arne lietz, who was the main driver. it was his idea, and the cooperation between afet and envi here in parliament shows that it can be done. i would also like to thank all the departments in parliament for their contribution, and i look forward to a broad support in the plenary tomorrow, and then the work will really begin.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you for the detailed debate and i thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals. droughts and storms were also specifically mentioned. there was a commission conference on climate diplomacy, climate and security, and i would like to give an example of where we ourselves, as a parliament, had contacts, for example, with states and with representatives of iran, which is also having difficulties in international negotiations. but on the question of climate, on the question of environmental damage, on the question of droughts, there are great demands, and they are also directed at the european union. that means climate diplomacy is also a starting point for diplomatic talks, even with states that are having difficulties here. i would also like to mention an example on multilateralism. we have here - you said it, commissioner - the united states and canada as interlocutors. and here europe is showing leadership, namely in the situation where we are not only engaging in diplomacy with the white house, but also with campaigns of 'we are still in' or campaigns of governors who are committed to the implementation of the paris climate agreement, a best practice, as they say, of the european union and not only of the european delegation, which is involved at all levels, but also of the european parliament. we have an office of the european parliament there, and this cooperation is going very well, particularly on climate protection. i would like to make one more point on the mainstreaming of kattowitz. the european union must present the strategy on the sustainable development goals in new york in 2019. and this is where we really need to show that the climate issue is of paramount importance. i would like to conclude with the point that has been made, namely how we can also achieve technologies also in the area of sustainable development goals an important point, a goal , energy supply and decarbonisation especially also in european neighbourhood. north africa has been mentioned here. this is about using renewable energy, from large projects to private households. i am very grateful to you and i look forward to the joint implementation in the coming months and years of our increasing involvement in this area as a foreign policy issue in the european parliament.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i find that we have a great deal of consensus here in the plenary that climate action is a very important task, a global task. it is all the more sad that we have climate deniers and climate sceptics here in the european parliament who still deny that climate protection exists. it is also significant that the honourable members, mrs reid and mrs d'ornano, read a statement from the newspaper for a minute and then immediately disappear from the chamber. this is as frivolous as it gets, and it speaks for itself that there is no serious thinking about an important problem here. i think we really need to pay more attention to the issue of climate refugees. i know we're still debating whether there should be a legal status for people who have to leave their homes. but we're going to see hundreds of thousands, millions of people actually migrate and leave because they don't have water, they don't have food -- this is a big issue that we can't avoid. in this context, we need to pay much more attention to our neighbour, africa, and i can only repeat that our trade policy, our development policy, must be geared to sustainable development in africa and that we must make some things right. mr arias cañete, i think it is good news that we are filling our trade agreements with elements of the paris agreement, because it would somehow no longer be appropriate for us to engage in free trade and leave out the sustainable elements of the climate change agreement. it is also creating unfair competition, which is the past, not the future. i look forward to a good vote tomorrow and to the work afterwards.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already done so. the resolution we are voting on this week gives the high representative and her diplomats a strong recommendation for clear political action. it is precise in terms of the solutions we urgently need to meet the common challenges of living together in peace and mutual balance. thank you, colleague friend, for your work on this. we have a comprehensive chapter on the many questions of peace and disarmament, and in particular an explicit commitment to the treaty on the prohibition of nuclear weapons. i expect you to take decisive action to support this convention by the european union. do not follow the arguments of the german foreign minister who is going against the will of 122 countries. today we must take all the steps necessary to eliminate nuclear weapons and to prevent their proliferation. the european parliament gives you a strong backing in relation to a legally binding international instrument that governs the respect of human rights standards by business enterprises. the positions on the paris agreement on climate change and the implementation of the un sustainable development goals of the 2030 agenda are equally strong and clear, and this, mr preda, certainly includes the commitments for the people most affected by climate change. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr scholz, you were right when you said that the un is paralysed today. the security council is deadlocked, the general assembly is not very dynamic, and we are in a sad state of affairs. would you agree that we need a new element in the un, that parliaments are more represented there, perhaps one day even with a parliamentary assembly? we're an open stage, we're having really dynamic discussions, and we could bring life to the un. it would be a pity if this organization stagnated.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i agree with you, mr leinen. we need a stronger democratization of the united nations, a re-connection of what ministers, diplomats and ambassadors of the various states do there. the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the european union. and this could also encourage parliamentarians to take more responsibility for the work of this un, here in the european parliament as well as at the level of national parliaments.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. this report contains a clear message, a clear commitment to multilateralism as the central guarantor of peace and human rights in the world. this commitment is more relevant than ever in the face of global challenges. these challenges include armed conflicts in europe's neighbourhood with no prospect of resolution, a lack of prosecution of those responsible for war crimes and human rights violations, global migration flows, of which only a fraction reach europe, and the international failure to effectively limit global warming. this report contains concrete proposals for reforms to make the united nations more effective. we also call for the role of the international criminal court to be strengthened so that those responsible for the most serious international crimes can be held to account. in this context, in the last european parliament urgency resolution on myanmar, we proposed that the general assembly should launch an independent and international inquiry into the human rights violations against the rohingya. the report takes a clear stand against the dangerous foreign policy of the united states. the european union is not a party to the nuclear agreement with iran. the european parliament also called for the eu to be given a role in the fight against climate change, and called for the eu to be involved in the fight against climate change. given the importance of this report for multilateralism, i find it very regrettable that the conservative groups refused to vote on this report in the committee on foreign affairs and abstained or voted against it. i hope you will correct that in plenary.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. let me make two points. first: i believe this is an opportunity, given the international situation and american behavior, to make a point for the multilateral rules-based organization, this so crucial foundation for security, for economic development. this must not be destroyed in disorder. let me make a second point. the european council has dealt intensively with the question of migration. if we want to get things under control and stop the migration of the 65 million refugees on this planet, we can only do it with european support if the united nations takes care of the protection of these refugees in the camps, and does not do it in libya, for example, where the gangs run the camps, rape and enslave people, but that these camps are adequately secured at the level of the united nations so that people can be sent back. i believe that the european union is therefore well placed to work closely with the united nations in this area and to implement the decisions taken last week.
the president of the council in office. mr president tajani, mr president of the european commission, ladies and gentlemen, members of the european parliament, as you know, on 1 july our presidency ended and six months ago i said from this podium that bulgaria would work with everyone in a constructive, dialogic and pragmatic way, that we would rely heavily on an open and continuous dialogue with the european parliament to achieve as much as possible, so to all the political parties, all the members, all of you, mr president and mr president, thank you for the exceptional support we had as your presidency from all the working committees, sessions, thank you very much! we have 41 agreements with the european parliament out of 105 that we inherited, 45 of them. we have closed the council so that our austrian colleagues can start negotiations with you in july, and i hope that sebastian kurz and his colleagues from austria will not see today's incident as a start to their presidency. we have set four key priorities and we have achieved success and progress on all of them. the european union is a key player in the development of the western balkans. we have done so because we see their accession to the european union as a prerequisite for better development and security for the whole of europe. there can be no peace and prosperity on the continent until all of europe is united. i think our efforts have paid off. the summit in sofia on may 17 helped athens and skopje settle the name dispute. this is a historic moment and an achievement we should all be proud of. you've been very supportive, too. the next big step was last week when the council decided when and how to open accession negotiations for the republic of macedonia, as well as albania. and of course, i leave it for last, but it started, the agreement on good neighbourliness between bulgaria and macedonia, with which we opened the topic and gave a personal example. we are pragmatic, we have worked hard for regional connectivity, because political declarations are important, but citizens need to see the real results in their daily lives. corridors 4, 8, 10, digital infrastructure, railways, ports -- this will enable much greater prosperity, connectivity and of course, raising the gross domestic product of the entire balkans, not just the western balkans. at the sofia meeting, we agreed to provide additional means of connectivity, 11 transport projects for the digital programme of the balkans, for energy connectivity, for young people through erasmus+. we've seen this same enthusiasm and pragmatism in our other priorities. we have defended the interests of the citizens of europe and have tried to be balancers and honest mediators. we proposed and organised an eu-turkey meeting in varna on 26 march to sit down together and discuss the problems that have accumulated. we have resumed dialogue with turkey. our deal with turkey works, we have zero migration pressure. this gives us reason to propose that, in order to solve the problems of migration, similar political solutions should be sought with other countries. we have made great progress in improving the schengen information system, the visa code and the schengen borders code, as well as interoperability. so on migration, europe has done a lot, the commission has done a lot, and we have tried to do our part. on the reform of dublin, the asylum system: we have invested a lot of effort. we've left no stone unturned and with your support, we've accomplished a lot, with four of the six open files on the final lines. thank you for the flexibility and key partner that the european parliament has been. but the overall decision has yet to be taken, and that is why we have been looking for a compromise until the early hours of the european council. i'm proud we made it. once again, europe has shown that it is ready to work together and to find european solutions. we are deeply convinced that our work has laid the foundation for a good and sustainable solution. there are many other areas where we have achieved results for the sake of a better future for europe. it is difficult for me to list them all, but i would like to mention the social pillar, the energy union, the banking union, the digital single market, where we have been extremely successful, and the preparation for the european elections in 2019. we also adopted the first industrial programme of the european union for military capabilities. there are many, but what they all have in common is that we have found unity - both in the council and with you, the representatives of the citizens. our success is yours, too, because if we hadn't worked together, it never would have happened. that is what we promised at the beginning of our presidency and that is what we have done. we sought consensus among countries and institutions, even when there were major contradictions. i would like to thank you once again and wish you to continue the same cooperation with our colleagues from austria, because the foreign policy environment for europe is dynamic and complex. this, of course, also affected the bulgarian presidency. i will highlight some of the factors that cannot but remain on the european agenda. the united states and president trump's decisions. at the informal dinner in sofia, we talked about trade relations with the united states and withdrawing from the iran nuclear deal. we had to protect our european interests and that is imperative. brexit is not only a domestic issue, but also a geopolitical one. it is essential that the outcome of the negotiations does not endanger the security of europe and its citizens. the situation in africa remains very difficult. that's where the migration pressure to europe is coming from, which is why at the council last week we discussed the financial opportunities for africa and sustainable investment in partnership with those countries. terrorism remains a serious threat, we have worked hard to improve security across the european union, but it remains a serious problem. bulgaria will continue to support the european union in tackling these challenges. i believe that during our presidency we have been able to catch the pulse of events and give our colleagues from austria a very good basis, as we have received from estonia. once again, i would like to congratulate mr yuri and the estonian government on their presidency and i really hope that we have come close to the high standard they have set. bulgaria will continue to look ahead and work towards full membership in all european union, schengen and eurozone policies. we have achieved a high economic growth of 4%, unemployment has fallen below 6%, low external debt below 30%, 24% as of today, jean-claude. we have a substantial financial reserve and a practically zero budget deficit - sustainably, for years. we have shown ourselves to be a loyal partner and a patient one. i believe in diplomacy, not the practice of vetoing. we all know how that ends. the motto of the bulgarian presidency was 'unity makes strength' and today, six months later, we can say that the strength of unity is the future of europe. so, thank you again. i thank the teams and president tajani, jean-claude juncker, these dozens, hundreds of technical people at all levels, experts, the translators, i thank them for their cooperation, because our first presidency, at least in the general opinion, was a success and bulgaria as a country feels proud to be a member of the european union. and thank you to all the bulgarian mps from all the political groups for working so hard and helping so much.
president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to say something about what has happened today, but i will not do it. but i should, because this is not normal. full stop. (applause)
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, every time i make a rather nuanced statement about parliamentary procedures, you interrupt me. therefore, i renounce saying what should be said. in fact, we would not have done that if mrs merkel or mr macron had been present. we would never have done that. independently of that, i would like to start by thanking prime minister borissov and his whole team for a very successful presidency. on a more personal level, he personally, because he has the merit of a successful presidency; lilyana, who was the real engineer of this presidency; and for the high quality of the public service in bulgaria and in brussels, the ambassador and all those working with the prime minister in bulgaria, in sofia and elsewhere. well done, a great job. thank you for that. (applause) i would like to thank you. the motto of your presidency was 'united we stand strong', and this sums up the way you have approached your presidency. you did it every hour, every second, every minute, and it was a pleasure to work with the bulgarian presidency. i hope that this good tradition started by estonia and continued by bulgaria will prevail during the austrian presidency. you've built bridges, you've brought people together, and in the more specific areas you've delivered. this is true of everything that has been done in relation to economic and monetary union. this is true of the modernisation of telecommunications rules. this is true of everything related to digital europe and the work of the bulgarian commissioner for digital europe, in whom i have full confidence and a great deal of friendship. the bulgarians, on both sides, were excellent. the digital economy, under the impetus of the bulgarian presidency and mariya gabriel, has made great strides. the same applies to the governance of the energy union. so i am very happy that you have been able to complete the work that was left undone in this situation - though i must say that it was difficult. you have contributed more than others, and in circumstances which were difficult for you, to making the principle of equal work, equal pay for equal work the guiding principle of all european social policies. you were very strong in sachen westbalkan-politik. we have often spoken about it, we were in sofia, we were in warsaw, we were everywhere, because the west balkans theme was so as you said it was everywhere in the center of your speech. they have ensured that the european policy, the european perspective of the western balkans in the region is better understood. the commission is not obliged to adopt the measures necessary to implement the provisions of this regulation. we are now agreed that great efforts are required, but you have contributed substantially to the declaration of the unexplained in the western balkans. i have to thank you, just as i have to thank you, that you were always ready, in matters of foreign protection to stand your man. boyko, that's great!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. when we met in january to discuss what lies ahead, we crossed our fingers and wished the young bulgarian presidency all the best. today, prime minister boyko borissov is back with his entire team to take stock. it is a fantastic balance sheet, it is a strong balance sheet, which has been achieved in the last six months. europe has made great strides thanks to bulgarian leadership. i would like to thank you very much for that on behalf of the epp group. it has strengthened europe. i want to thank your team, the minister and all my colleagues in the cabinet. i would like to thank marija gabriel, the bulgarian commissioner who has built bridges and helped initiate and monitor many dossiers. that was a good team effort. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i like the results of geoblocking, we in the epp like the results of giving 30% of digital content to european content, that is to say, strengthening european culture. energy governance has been raised and the defence union has been strengthened under your presidency. europe has been strengthened in the economy. the second big issue i want to highlight is the issue of migration. you have shown that the protection of europe - securing the frontiers - goes hand in hand with the determination to secure the frontiers - and humanity. we have completed the resettlement package under your presidency, a package which makes it clear that europe remains open to people who are really in need, and on the other hand you show at the external border how we can really protect europe in a humanitarian and orderly way by not having the illegal migration in bulgaria attacked by illegal migrants. both points good points! i think that is also a good argument to say that bulgaria should now become a member of schengen. bulgaria has demonstrated that it can secure the external borders. bulgaria has shown that it can do its homework in internal security. the criteria are worked out. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. (applause from the centre) the western balkans have already been mentioned. the question is whether we are exporting security to the western balkans or whether we are importing insecurity from the western balkans to europe. that is the question that is on the table, and that is why we must address it now. that is the main focus of your presidency. i think it is important that this has been backed up by concrete projects. ladies and gentlemen, we have had the experience in the last six months that when the heads of state and government meet in the council, there is a lot of arguing, national egoism is being practised, and on the other hand we have seen that when there is a strong presidency of the council, together with the european parliament, a great deal can be achieved. and that is why i say that the europe of institutions, the commission, the parliament, the council of ministers is moving forward in europe and is producing good results for the people, and the europe of states, of national egoism, is unfortunately not capable of solving the problems of our time. i think that is also a realization of this presidency. so, thank you again, my dear boyko borisov. clear course for europe with you at the helm of the council, we have had a strong european advocate who does not use the veto but partnership. i would also like to make it clear that bulgaria has joined the ranks of the great countries that are moving europe forward. that's a great score. thank you so much for this.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to say to the prime minister that it’s fair to say we still have a lot of problems in europe which have not been resolved in the last six months. we have the eurozone issue, we have brexit and so many other things. however, prime minister, i really wouldn’t blame it on you. we have inside as well as outside problems. we have a big german governmental crisis that is blocking everything and we have governments playing hardball on the multiannual financial framework (mff). we even have the austrians playing foul, and they have only just started their presidency! in other areas, however, it has indeed been possible to succeed. one of them was on the western balkans, on which i congratulate you because i think it’s really important that countries receive a reward if, like in albania, they make huge reforms or, like macedonia, they agree on solving such a big problem. i hope everyone in this house will support the agreement. (applause) finally, putting the paris agreement into eu law was a big achievement under your presidency so i congratulate you on that. i hope that, as you leave the presidency, you can take with you the spirit of biodiversity – many colleagues have said how important that is – because bulgaria is also so rich in biodiversity and natural beauty. i have had the opportunity of visiting pirin national park: it is really fantastic and we should do everything possible to preserve it. lastly, i also hope your government will be a bit more forthcoming on corruption because this is a big obstacle in many member states. i hope you were also able to experience media pluralism and pluralism of opinion here, and how enriching it actually is. i hope that soon we can all travel to bulgaria without having to show our passports and without any other problems. (applause)
member of the commission. mr president, mr prime minister borissov, dear members of the european parliament, on behalf of the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, i would like to begin by thanking you for this constructive debate, which very clearly reflects the successful presidency of bulgaria. once again, congratulations to all involved in this process for a successful presidency, which will remain a presidency filled with a spirit of european integration, very hard work and concrete steps forward in a number of areas digitisation, western balkans, social policy, economic union. you have not missed the most important issues on which we will all continue to work. this is the next multiannual financial framework, this is brexit, these are the topics of migration and security. many other important issues were raised by colleagues from the european parliament. all this made the bulgarian presidency a success, but it also left a solid foundation for the future successes of the austrian presidency. we thank you once again and wish the austrians success.
the president of the council in office. mr president, once again, i thank you all. i listened very carefully to each parliamentary group. i agree with a lot of things, and for others, of course, we'll draw conclusions. i never said we were perfect, i never said we were sinless, and i doubt there is anyone in europe who would say that. so we're doing a lot of work to protect the environment, we've created a new anti-corruption body, with a new law, with huge powers, with huge opportunities, and i really hope this issue is off the agenda. as for the ethnic model, i have always maintained that bulgaria has a unique ethnic model and i have always maintained that the role of the dps in this regard has been enormous. democracy in europe invented political parties, or as churchill said, and he didn't like them, but nothing better democracy has invented. and the will of the bulgarian people was to put us in the way we are now governing. this is the role of the people, and the voice of the people is the voice of god. so let's try and make it clear to all of us that the ethnic model is the best that bulgaria has achieved in this area, and it should continue. yes, political reproaches, fighting, this is normal in politics, but the straight line is that between bulgarian citizens of different religions we should not give any chance to arise opposition. so in that regard, i assure you i am always on the lookout. but the other is the will of the people, the other is the will of the voters, and they've got us lined up like this. and we, in doing so, are working, i hope, successfully. thank you to the socialists, thank you to the greens, thank you to the conservatives. brexit, colleague, is something that we have really put a lot of effort into with michel barnier and separately, at least now i'm not prepared to tell you, three, four, five meetings maybe with theresa may, with her ministers, both in london and in sofia. we tried our best to resolve a normal divorce, a normal brexit, because really britain is not any country in europe, and i hope that common sense will actually get us to a brexit that protects both the rights of britain, and at the same time, the rights of the member states of the european union. i hope so, because this is a powerful economy, and we are, you see, we are one europe. in the balkans, thank you again for helping us, it's our joint success. serbia has opened two more chapters, montenegro, macedonia and albania, kosovo and bosnia and herzegovina, and you can ask their prime ministers and presidents, how many meetings we have had, how much effort we have put in. they themselves know that they are not yet ready to be offered the status that skopje and tirana were given. and i'll tell you why. even the electoral code in bosnia and herzegovina is not clear, they have to line up themselves. the same is true for kosovo, there is a lot to do, but the way, the talks, their participation in all the meetings... you remember how many years we were observers in the processes, they are at all the meetings, they participate, i hear their problems, they know each other, they are invited to brussels, they have their perspective and if they do their homework, which we continue to do in bulgaria, in romania, of course, the necessary will be done. so, without delaying you, and sebastian kurtz i'm sure is excited, i would never give advice without being asked. i sincerely hope that our austrian colleagues, chancellor kurz and all of you will help them to succeed, because the success of one presidency is the success of all of us, and vice versa, when mistakes are made or problems arise, we are all affected. so i wish sebastian kurz and all austrians a lot of success. if you need anything, we're here. as i have inquired of yuri in estonia, we are always at your disposal. thank you again, it's been an honor to be here with you.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a great pleasure and honour for me to be able to be with you today in the european parliament, with you as the elected representatives of the european people at european level. we met on saturday in schladming, high on a peak in austria, to take over the european season from boyko borissov. it was a solemn act because in austria, as a pro-european country, we feel it is a great honour to be able to take over the presidency of the council of the european union. it is not only a great honour for us, but above all a great responsibility. and i should like to take this opportunity to congratulate the bulgarian presidency on the work it has done over the last six months, which we consider to have been very professional, and we will endeavour to continue to do the same for the european union. it is a great responsibility that we are here to assume in order to contribute to the future of the european union. i admit it . as a young person of 31 years, the european union is something of a given for me. but in recent years i have become increasingly aware that as politicians we must not take the european union for granted, but must work hard every day to develop the peace and success project of the european union and constantly change it for the better. we, as the republic of austria, are taking over the presidency of the council at a very challenging time - a time of change. we are witnessing in the united states an ever more changing political landscape which has become more unpredictable for us in europe. we are experiencing a tremendous economic upswing in china, but at the same time a social model that is far from that of europe. and with our biggest neighbour on our continent, russia, we have ongoing tensions right in europe. the european union has been experiencing increasing tensions in recent years, and it almost seems as if there are gaps that need to be bridged. with brexit, we see for the first time that after years of only states wanting to join the european union, a country voluntarily leaves the european union. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that it should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. i have become increasingly aware that much of what we take for granted in europe is not so. i've come to realize more and more that the rule of law, democracy, the basic freedoms that seem normal to us, elsewhere in the world, are anything but god-given. it is a gift to be able to live in europe, it is a gift to be able to be european, even in a time full of challenges. but in the last few years, as i've been able to travel a lot as foreign minister, i've not only become aware that these freedoms, the rule of law, democracy are anything but taken for granted elsewhere, but i've also become more and more aware that it's our job to fight to keep it that way in europe. the rule of law, democracy and fundamental freedoms are not only the foundation of our european identity, they are also the heart of our way of living together. and we, as the council presidency, will do our part to ensure that these fundamental freedoms remain a matter of course in europe. but it is also important to fight for europe to remain competitive. the european union's prosperity, justice and the european way of life depend on our fundamental rights, but they also depend on our competitiveness and our economic performance. in an era of digitalisation and automation, we must therefore also work to ensure that we as the european union remain competitive, that we are not overtaken by other regions of the world because we are more bureaucratic or slower, but that we do everything we can to remain at the forefront of the world even in these changing times. that is why we, as the council presidency, want to focus on the big questions. we firmly believe in the spirit of subsidiarity that it is necessary to focus on the big issues, and we want to do this together with you - with the european parliament - but of course also with the commission. i should like to thank you very much, mr president, for your welcome visit to the conference of presidents of the european parliament in vienna on 19 june: it was a first good exchange in preparation for our presidency of the council. but i very much hope that the good cooperation we have started here can continue during the next six months in the same friendly and professional manner. we certainly do not agree on everything, but i have noticed at the meeting that not all the groups in the european parliament are always in agreement. but perhaps this is also what makes us europeans, to a certain extent, that we can afford to disagree, but at the same time we must also know that we should focus on where we agree, that we should also focus on the objectives, where we can compromise. this is precisely the aim of our presidency: we want to be bridge builders and to focus on issues where it is possible to move our european union forward together. we will be taking over the presidency of the council under the motto 'europe that protects'. we want to focus on the challenges of our time, we want to do everything we can to ensure prosperity in europe, and we want to do this not only within but also outside our european borders. we want to focus on three priorities. firstly, security and the fight against illegal migration, because the protection of the european population must be a top priority and because we need a paradigm shift in migration policy. it needs a stronger focus on external border protection as the basis for a europe without internal borders. in this context, i am very pleased that the european council last week succeeded - in my view - in initiating a change of trend and in placing an important focus on external border protection and cooperation with third countries. this is essential, alongside the debate on the dublin reform and the distribution of europe. the debate at german level, in particular, on national measures to deal with austria, shows us once again that a focus on external border protection is needed and that a europe without internal borders can only exist in the long term if there are also functioning external borders. secondly, we want to focus on securing our wealth. digitalisation and automation are changing our world, and only if we succeed in being pioneers here too and in taking advantage of the opportunities that arise will we as the european union continue to be at the forefront of the world. we must do everything possible to ensure that in the future the big internet companies are not only established in the united states and china, but also in europe. we have the best basic conditions as the european union: the rule of law, good infrastructure, well-educated people in our european union and, above all, a single market of 500 million people. but we must also create the right conditions now to ensure that hightech made in europe will continue to exist in the future and, above all, to ensure that there is a level playing field. i support the idea of the european union of a compensatory tax on internet giants, because such a move would also contribute to greater equality of opportunity and fairer competition for european companies. (applause from the centre) thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the issue of security and the fight against illegal migration, in addition to the issue of safeguarding our prosperity, it is of course also necessary that we, as the european union, be active in our neighbourhood. a europe that protects does not end at europe's external borders. only if we succeed in ensuring peace, security and stability in our neighbourhood will we be able to guarantee peace, security and stability in europe in the long term. we want to make a contribution here to improving relations in our eastern neighbourhood. in addition to responding to russian aggression, and in addition to sanctions for conduct contrary to international law, it is necessary to reinforce the channels of dialogue here. because in the long term, peace on our continent can only be achieved with russia and not against it. we also want to intensify cooperation with africa, and i am very grateful to the president of the european parliament for being a driving force here. only if we can improve the living conditions in africa can we ensure that the suffering of the people there is reduced. only by working together in fair trade with africa, while also supporting european investment there, can we ensure that there is sustainable development and prospects for young people there too. and thirdly, the neighbourhood which is particularly dear to us as the republic of austria is, of course, the region of south-eastern europe and in particular the western balkans. the european union project is not complete in our view until the western balkan countries are part of our united europe. these countries, ladies and gentlemen, have not merely earned a european perspective, they have earned membership of the european union, and we must give them the best possible support on their way to the european union. i am very pleased that an agreement on the name dispute has been reached, and we are pleased that macedonia and albania will now be able to open accession negotiations - even though we would have liked it to have been done so sooner. what is needed is an honest perspective for these countries, and continuous progress towards european union. only by ensuring this can we ensure that other countries in the world do not increase their influence in the region, and only by ensuring this can we ensure that the european union project is eventually completed and that these countries too are part of our european union and can also benefit from our fundamental values and the development of the european union. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. i'm referring to brexit. we are all unhappy that britain is leaving the european union, but it is all the more important that we do so in an orderly manner. there can be no picking the raisins for britain, but it is equally important that we ensure an orderly political but also economic relationship with britain. i am very grateful to the european union's chief negotiator for his work in this context and we will do everything we can to support him in the best possible way and to ensure the unity of the 27 on this issue. we want to support the european commission as much as possible in the negotiations on the next european budget, on the multiannual financial framework, even though we are aware that the negotiations will be very difficult. i think we need a good mix of quality and of course timing, because both are crucial for the stability of the european union. we are aware, ladies and gentlemen, that we are taking over the presidency of the council of the european union at a challenging time. we are aware that this will also be the last full council presidency before the european parliament elections, and we are aware that it will be a lot of work and effort for us. we are still looking forward to this activity. we ask for the best possible cooperation and support for the austrian presidency of the council, and we are glad that we can be a bridge-builder on some difficult issues in the interests of europeans, in the interests of our european union. (applause from the centre)
president of the commission. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i am looking forward to this austrian presidency because the two previous austrian presidencies were crowned with success, because all the relevant political forces in austria have also been swimming in the same direction and have moved coherently in the past. i have known sebastian kurz for many years, and i know that he is inspired by european convictions. the same applies to the austrian federal government. if you were to take a look at the government programme of the austrian federal government - which many do not do, but which many talk about - you might find that this government programme of the austrian federal government has a clear pro-european tone. i welcomed that then and i welcome it now. we will have to work together a lot, as we have in the past. the commission's proposal is that we should do this in a spirit of friendship and mutual understanding. i'm also convinced that we'll succeed. the commission will be visiting vienna at the end of this week, on thursday and friday. we look forward to your visit. i would have preferred this meeting to have taken place in tyrol, because that is the austrian federal state i know best, but vienna is also okay and also carries messages that need to be passed on. we will have to talk about the protection of the external borders, which is also a concern of the federal chancellor. but this is not a modern invention. the european commission, which is sometimes a little more farsighted than the member states, proposed the protection of external borders back in 2008. it is well known who was opposed to the idea of a european external border guard at that time, and there were several german-speaking members of the association who refused to do so. if we had done that and had also implemented the follow-up proposal of the barroso commission in 2013 and the proposals of the commission under my chairmanship in february and march 2015 in the council, we would have avoided many problems. (applause from the centre) the austrian chancellor recently in an interview or in a face-to-face meeting - i can't remember exactly, probably also in a face-to-face meeting - argued that we should not increase the number of european border guards to 10,000 until 2027, but that we should do so at an accelerated pace by 2020. we will. the commission will put these proposals for speeding up the work on the table of the two legislators in september. i would like to see 10,000 men deployed in 2020 to support the 100,000 national border guards in their difficult task. i am also of the opinion that we should have a real, proper, efficient border guard force in the full sense of the word. i am also in favour of tackling the technical questions, the material questions that arise in this context, quickly. i also said that at the european council last sunday. we need more planes, we need more ships, we need more vehicles - wheeled vehicles is the correct german term. we should do so, and we should do so in the coming days and weeks. i would like to see the five asylum legislative proposals, which have also been pushed forward by the european parliament with admirable energy, adopted by july. i proposed this in the european council. this was not unanimously agreed, but where we agree on asylum issues between the institutions, parliament, council and commission, we should do so rather than give the impression that we are only talking and not acting. we could trade! (applause from the centre) i would be glad if the two remaining asylum issues - you know what i am referring to - could be brought under austrian presidency to a point where we could reach a conclusion before the end of the year. so we need the austrian negotiation skills. we also need them in the case of the multiannual financial framework. the commission has presented its proposals. this is not the case with the unexpected unanimous approval, but we must start working on these proposals in a consistent manner in the council under the austrian presidency. in the past, we've always had a kind of negotiation in toolboxes. it's the only way. we must agree on the elements step by step and line by line so that a conclusion is possible before the european elections in may next year. i know that this is difficult - both here in the house and between governments - but if the austrian presidency does not do what we expect it to do, namely to work quickly on these issues, then we would find ourselves in a situation similar to the last time, with the last multiannual financial framework. if we are not ready to start by 1 january 2019, we will lose thousands of research jobs in europe. but we have agreed that research and innovation is an absolute priority in the european union and for the european union. we have agreed that we will massively expand the erasmus programme. if we do not do this by 1 january 2019, we will not be able to provide positive support to tens of thousands of students and teachers through the erasmus programme. well, sebastian, there's a lot of work to be done. i know you work a lot, that you can also empathize with the feelings of others. i try to do the same, but i don't always succeed. you don't always succeed either, but most of the time. the table of the house is about positive negotiations, charm-driven solutions. it's not just viennese schnitzel on the plate. but you know i'm a big fan of the viennese schnitzel. i've been to mongolia, ivory coast, africa, asia... all of them have viennese schnitzel, but the dish at home doesn't just have viennese schnitzel. (applause from the centre)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to welcome you to the austrian presidency of the council, and to you, mr chancellor, mr sebastian kurz, may i say hello. austria is a strong european country, a large european country. when you're in vienna, you feel it, when you look at the history of the country, you know it. if i may make one point, the austrian constitution of 1867 already established a multilingual parliament, as we have today. it was stated that every austrian citizen has the fundamental right to his own language, culture and traditions. the foundations were laid at that time, as in many other regions of europe, for what we are now allowed to practice and live in europe. for example, the fact that in austria an exchange of pupils was established as early as the 19th century is a beautiful facet that gives us orientation today. and then in recent history, one of the great pioneers of european unity, alois mock, cut the iron curtain on the border with hungary in 1989, 20 days later austria applied to join the european union, and four months later the berlin wall fell - another beautiful symbol of austria's contribution to the unity of this continent. and that is why we look forward to the austrian presidency of the council with the message 'building bridges' that you, dear sebastian, and austria stand for. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european parliament is represented in the council. firstly, the tasks which you - and therefore you - will be given by the bulgarian presidency. the tasks of the debate on our currency, the euro and the results of the council's discussions on the further development of the euro area are also included. my group supports the establishment of a european monetary fund, whatever it is called. we need more independence from international structures. we support the establishment of an investment budget for the european union. we have done a lot of reforms: social reforms, labour market reforms. we have done a lot in terms of fiscal stability. and now europe has to invest. this is the right time. that is why our group supports it. and we also wish we could talk a little more about successes, because the 2.5% economic growth and the almost ten million jobs that have been created are a strong record that we have already made in recent years. the second major european issue of course is also part of the bulgarian presidency: the continuation of work on migration. you have our full support when it comes to protecting the external borders. a few minutes ago, in your place, boyko borissov, who is sitting on the bulgarian-turkish border, showed that external border control is possible, that we can end illegal migration on this continent. only then will we get the european citizens to be open to resettlement and to the truly disadvantaged in the world, to welcome them to europe. that is why we are fully supporting the protection of the external borders. i am also pleased that you have announced that you will convene an african summit, that you will also turn your attention to this continent and that you will stick to the european solution. the third thing that the bulgarian presidency is handing over to you is the western balkans. thank you for your clear statements today that this region needs a clear european perspective. the second box we see is, of course, the working out of all the issues of this legislative period, and it will be an intensive work semester ahead of you. this includes fair taxation treating the internet companies in the same way as our craftsmen experience tax collection and this includes the issue that jean-claude juncker raised, namely the budget. my group wants a modern budget which means less bureaucracy for the citizens. my group is also prepared to discuss the question of saving in europe. we must look at the efficiency of spending with a self-critical eye. but we also want a budget which provides security for the citizens, for those who benefit from the european budget. and we want a budget that enables the future of this continent. and that is why we want the discussions to be concluded before the european elections. it's a difficult task, but we should try to do it in 2018. together, we ask you to take up this task. and finally, the third box: topics of the emergence of this continent. not just work, not just business as usual, but go. i'm glad you're putting that in the spotlight. you are a young leader of this continent, you are the future of the continent. and that is why i am glad that you are so clear about this: in trade policy - the key question about the economic success of our continent, the slogan of cohesion - in the digital world, whether we can manage to implement our values, such as copyright, which we will discuss this week, the ideas that europe stands for, also in the digital world. i would like to point out that in a few days' time donald trump and vladimir putin will meet in helsinki. it is also a question of whether we are still mere spectators in global development, whether we are still only watching as the big blocs of the world decide for us, or whether this continent is on its own and capable of making decisions. and, mr sebastian, i must also say that if we are to act with confidence in global areas, we cannot avoid the question of whether we can abandon the principle of unanimity in foreign policy and adopt a majority decision in the council. only then can this continent really bring the power to bear that this continent should have. so much depends on you. we wish you the best of luck and you can rely on your epp group. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. my group, the socialist group, is very much in favour of the launching of the european project. we do not think that the european project is being abandoned. so let me come straight to the question this morning: in germany, there have been critical discussions for weeks between two sister parties - the csu and the cdu - about, i think, not the relevant issues of migration policy, but about side issues, small issues compared to the big issues. the dispute was about the extent to which people registered as asylum seekers elsewhere than those who had applied for asylum could be turned back directly at the german-austrian border. the sister parties - if one may still call them that - agreed yesterday on a proposal to set up centres where, by administrative agreement, people are sent directly back: italy. i can read in the austrian newspapers this morning - and this will become a european problem - that your government says that if necessary we will secure the southern border, that is to say, close it to italy. i want to know, is that so? i would like to know - because this is no longer just a trick in the bavarian state government, but a european problem - whether mrs merkel or mr seehofer consulted you before this idea was born. have you agreed to this proposal being put forward? what is your position and will you agree? or are we now facing a european crisis, with the domino effect that will destroy schengen, which the president of the commission has always warned against and which he did everything he could last sunday to prevent? they'd help us with an assessment. i doubt whether this can be explained by any reasonable means, since your minister of the interior has also said that the figure of about 20 people a week is what we are talking about. but let me embed my discussion into a larger question. our two countries have gone through dark periods in the last century. europe was given to us, the germans earlier, the austrians later, by their own choice. we both benefit immensely - economically, politically, culturally. this path has been paved by great personalities, by people like bruno kreisky and willy brandt, who taught us to open the door to the east, to unite the family, who looked to southern europe, who inspired the north-south dialogue, without whom we would not be where we are today. gyula horn and alois mock - and this has been mentioned - have cut through the iron curtain in the truest sense of the word. this has opened the way to freedom for thousands of my countrymen, and for that we are grateful. these were great europeans whose names will never be forgotten. we have recently seen 700 armed men, heavy equipment, helicopters arriving at the austrian-slovenian border. this is approximately the region which, in 1867, mr weber, agreed to have a multilingual parliament. were we any further along then than we are today? my group says no to this development in austria too! (applause from the centre) weapons on the borders of the european union yes, where do we live? that is not the europe we want. that is not the europe we want. i think that this is a matter of urgency. i sometimes wonder, when voices are heard, whether the csu, whether the development of the austrian people's party, is evidence that we are entering into the process of urbanisation of europe and also of the christian democratic parties. i don't know exactly. sometimes i think we're getting into the despair, the politics of fear, the politics of making people afraid of people. my socialist group will defend itself against this, because we are for the policy of hope! we are for the future policy of the european project! that is why you are going to the centre of europe. if you come back to the place where we need you, we will also rely on your energy in this austrian presidency. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: your country took over the presidency of the council of the eu on 1 july this year. many of my countrymen have high hopes for austria, but also for you personally. since you took office, you have followed your announcements with action. they are important in terms of migration policy, tax policy based on performance, sound social policy and education policy based on performance. the most important achievement of the eu is certainly the closure of the balkan route, which has given a decisive impetus to a reorientation of european refugee policy. i would also like to thank you on behalf of many of my fellow countrymen. the protection of the external borders, which has been discussed for many years, is more than overdue. active action is not used in germany. the federal government of my country has been sitting out most of the problems for years, delaying or exacerbating them - whether through incompetence or lack of will. in germany, people are not governed, but at best managed. you want to be a bridge builder. this is very important these days, because the policies of my country have not only driven a deep wedge into my country, but into the whole of the european union. but it is not just illegal migration that is a problem for the eu. the euro crisis has also been raging for years. in the almost ten years since the financial crisis, little has improved. the south of europe has made too little progress in reform, debt has risen and the financial markets are only accepting this whole construct because they are sure that the north will take over the debt. that is why mrs merkel has received so much support in the eu in recent days to keep her in office. the eu wants to make major changes to the european treaties in the coming months. for years, eu centralists like mr juncker, mr weber and mr verhofstadt have been working on various proposals, all of which have one thing in common: they want to make the european union the united states of europe, with a single economic government, with european taxes, with more centralisation. now, we should have learned from our history that centrally governed systems have crucial difficulties. they're not flexible, and they're not innovative. just two weeks ago, with the meseberg declaration, mrs merkel made extensive concessions with french president macron towards the european transfer union and the central government. the creation of a eurozone budget with its own taxes or the banking union with a transfer of deposit guarantee funds from northern to southern europe are only examples. with such concessions, is it any wonder that mrs merkel must be kept in office? mr kurz, three weeks ago your colleague mark rutte was here in strasbourg. he was right to say that less eu is better. he rightly pointed out that the euro did not deliver on the promise of prosperity, but merely redistributed wealth within the eu. we want a european union which is limited to its core competences. it is also undisputed that angela merkel's opening of the border led directly to brexit. i have been working closely with my british colleagues from the conservatives for four years, and i can tell you how great the loss will be for our continent, how great the loss of these objective and competent voices. and more countries will turn their backs on this eu if they continue to feel that they are being patronized, teased and exploited by brussels. you have the chance to make a significant contribution to this debate before the next european parliament elections. i wish you the best of luck.
i have to say, madam president, i have to go. on your foreign ministry page i read: the defence of human rights is a core concern of austria's foreign policy. i did not hear anything about that in your announcements today. after all, you also write that you will intervene with the eu in hundreds of cases a year to protect individuals in danger in all parts of the world. but in 2017, you brought 214 charges and 119 convictions in your own country for violating the antiquated prohibition law. in the neighbouring country, my country, germany, there are over 12 000 investigations per year for crimes of opinion. 1,138 patriots are in prison in germany for their opinions. you didn't commit a terrorist attack. eighty-year-olds like horst mahler, mrs. ursula haverbeck are thrown in jail in handcuffs. it would be a good time for you, for austria, to put an end to the persecution of patriots in your country and in europe as a whole.
i have to say, madam president, a europe that protects - a very appropriate motto in difficult times. mr chancellor, ladies and gentlemen, people are looking for support and guidance, they are looking for shelter in these troubled times. just two examples: one is protection from big global corporations and unregulated globalization, where the biggest, the strongest, the most unfair prevail, or protection from the chaos that president trump is trying to spread globally right now. we want to regulate globalization. we need good agreements, so not criticism, as my green colleague does, but a heartfelt thank you and congratulations on the ratification of the trade agreement with canada in austria. please help us to ensure that, during your presidency of the council, our agreements with japan, singapore and vietnam can be voted on by the european parliament, so that we can put not just words but deeds into practice and maintain the good global order. second, people seek protection from civil war, oppression and lack of freedom. but many people also want protection from irregular migration, and our green colleague has criticised you for the exercises of your border police. i want to say thank you. because training helps the police officers who would have to do this difficult job, and the pictures give the people who are unsure of themselves confidence. i have the impression that your federal government has succeeded in pacifying the population in austria on the migration issue. we need this in the european union too, and that is why i am asking you to launch an initiative in the council to continue the work of the last weekend. i would like to ask you to help us, perhaps by transferring the well-trained border guards to frontex, to secure europe's external borders in the short term so that we can really maintain schengen and then, as soon as possible, no longer need superfluous border controls within the european union.
in writing. europe is facing countless challenges. i wish mr kurz success in tackling many of these challenges during the austrian presidency. in addition to the obvious problems facing the european union, it must also be the task of the european union to provide a set of values. europe must offer people support and guidance. this also means that we do not isolate ourselves, but that we find common solutions to the refugee crisis. but what we must not forget when we talk about border controls, deportations and refugee quotas is that it is about people and their destiny.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. with reference to rule 59 (3) of the rules of procedure, i would like to ask that the vote be taken on the five amendments which i tabled on behalf of my group, which seek to ensure a minimum of parliamentary control of the eu's armaments programme, a minimum of transparency in relation to armaments projects and compliance with the eight eu criteria for arms exports, and to prevent fully autonomous lethal weapons from benefiting from eu funding, before the vote on the provisional outcome of the interinstitutional negotiations.
president of the european council. – mr president, the last european council took place in a deteriorating geopolitical context. this is why i appealed to the leaders that the eu must get its act together. for me, this means increasing military cooperation, preparing for worst-case scenarios in terms of trade, and – above all – looking for unity in every aspect of european cooperation, including migration and euro area reform. we managed to make progress on all these issues, but there is no hiding the fact that the road ahead of us is still long and, for sure, not easy. we started with a discussion among the leaders and nato secretary—general jens stoltenberg, with the aim of deepening the cooperation between the eu and nato. the leaders agreed that the eu must take greater responsibility for its own security, first and foremost because it is in our own interest as europeans. in order to bolster our common defence, the eu will enhance investment, capability development and operational readiness. let me mention here the issue of foreign threats to our democracies. the european council called on the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy and on the commission to present, by december, concrete proposals for a coordinated eu response to this challenge – and specifically to russian disinformation attempts – which is currently handled by a very small strategic communications team at the european external action service. this is particularly important in the light of the signals about russia’s role in brexit. as regards migration, i put forward the following three proposals: disembarkation platforms outside europe; a dedicated budgetary tool in the next mff to combat illegal migration; and the boosting of eu support for the libyan coast guard. they were supported univocally by the leaders. we also agreed to support the maltese authorities by sending a message to all vessels, including those of ngos, operating in the mediterranean. the message is clear: respect the law and do not obstruct the operations of the libyan coast guard. additionally, the leaders accepted the franco-italian proposal of controlled centres on eu territory. it is up to the governments to decide whether they want to create such centres. however, any obligations related to the functioning of these centres, including relocation and resettlement, will be undertaken on a voluntary basis. last but not least, we agreed to launch the next tranche of financing for turkey, and to transfer eur 500 million of development money to the eu trust fund for africa. the leaders confirmed their will to take our cooperation with africa to a new level. this means not only increased public funding but also a new framework enabling private investments to grow. it is the best proof of our intentions, despite unfounded claims that europe wants to abandon africa. it is impossible to stop the flow of illegal migrants without close cooperation with african countries. that is why we will use all possible tools, from defence and development to visa and other cooperation, to make it happen. moving on to the euro summit. last october, in this chamber, i said the following: ‘i will do everything in my power to take the first very concrete steps, by june. if we don’t reach agreement by june, i will say precisely why it wasn’t possible, and who is responsible.’ today i can say that the leaders did indeed take the first decisions. this means agreement on further steps to complete the banking union and to strengthen the european stability mechanism (esm). in particular, we agreed that the esm will be providing the common backstop to the single resolution fund. as a consequence, our banking union will become much stronger. some of you may say that this is too little, too late. and you would be right, in a sense. but the fact is that, after some years of standstill, we are effectively relaunching the process of deepening economic and monetary union. to make sure that the progress continues, i will organise another euro summit in december. the leaders also adopted conclusions advancing eu cooperation on digital matters and innovation, as well as trade. in the context of growing trade tensions, the european council underlined the importance of preserving and deepening the rules-based multilateral system. the commission was invited to propose a comprehensive approach to improve, together with like-minded partners, the functioning of the world trade organization in crucial areas. the leaders also called for the adoption of the proposal on the screening of foreign direct investments, which is crucially important for the security of our economies and our citizens. it goes without saying that the commission has the full support of the european council when it comes to the trade dispute with the usa. i am sure jean-claude juncker will elaborate on that. a final point on brexit. the 27 leaders shared one concern. whilst progress has been made in a number of areas, some key aspects still need to be agreed. since there is much work ahead, with less and less time, i was very honest in my assessment, including when i spoke to prime minister may last week. the sooner we get a precise uk proposal on the irish border, the better the chance of finalising the brexit negotiations this year. put simply, we cannot make progress unless a solid backstop is presented by the uk and accepted by our irish friends. we are now looking forward to the white paper from the uk and we very much hope that it will bring the necessary clarity, realism and impetus to these negotiations. (applause)
president of the commission. dear president, mr president of the european council, ladies and gentlemen, the question of post-war europe, or rather post-council europe, is asked after every european council: is the glass half full or half empty? i don't know, man. i think it could have been more full without saying it was half empty. we have made important decisions on border security. on the basis of the commission's proposals, we will have 10 000 border guards of european origin on the external borders of the european union by 2020. this is an important decision of the european council. the original plan was to do this until 2027, but now we're saying 2020. and i will make concrete proposals in this respect in the state of the union speech, because there is a need for us to move quickly. i also believe that the mandate of the border guards must be extended. these border guards - our guards - must also be able to intervene in third countries, but always with the agreement of the third countries concerned. in the area of migration, including the reception camps in north africa, we should be careful not to give the impression that there is a return to neo-colonial attitudes here - that is not good. we do not have to decide about africa, but we have to decide with africa and especially with north africa. the european council decided last thursday, friday, that we should agree on european approaches to migration. i strongly believe that this must be the case. i am not sure that the agreements now reached in some member states are fully in line with this, but we shall have to comment on this after a detailed examination of the situation. i'm glad that under donald's leadership, it was made sure that we agreed to the second tranche of the turkish aid, which is not going to turkey, but to those who are taking care of the refugees in turkey. it was an important decision to spend two billion from the european budget, one billion from the member states. i hope that this will be followed up and i have no doubt that the member states will do so. i am not going to make any demagogic remarks on africa. everyone is talking about africa. who's doing something for africa? we have increased the african trust fund to 4.1 billion euros. this was not the original plan, but we have now released 500 million euros from the european development fund, not to stop projects that do not actually exist, but money that is available. and the member states have committed to invest at least 500 million euros to ensure that the plans relating to the african trust fund are also implemented, particularly in libya. trust funds are also called libya. and i think we're getting there. i am somewhat disappointed but president donald knows that with regard to the legislative proposals put forward by the commission, on which there is agreement five out of seven , we are unable to persuade the european council to ask the council, the council of ministers, to do so before the end of july. so where we actually agree, we don't even agree that we agree. this is ridiculous and should therefore be tackled by the austrian presidency in the near future. i had suggested that we should complete the two remaining areas that you know of by the end of december. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. i'll say it again, without being on a trip, i'm too old for trips. the commission's proposals of february 2015 had been accepted, we would not be in the predicament we are in today, and that is why we should hurry rather than delay. it is not translatable in other languages, it is a game of words: "we must hurry instead of slowing down our ardor". on everything concerning economic and monetary union, donald tusk has made it clear that we can have a good decision on the european stability mechanism's support system in relation to european resolutions. this is a good decision and the european council should be congratulated. i would have liked to see us progress more rapidly on all this. on a more promising note, but not included in the conclusions in october-november, the european council would review all the remaining open questions for the economic and monetary union, including deposit guarantees. i believe that it is essential, for the sake of the banking union, that we agree on this point. there is no single currency area in the world where there is no deposit guarantee. we must not be dispatched to this point. we have not discussed the budget for the eurozone, because those who advocate it have not found an agreement. the commission had proposed to introduce lines specifically dedicated to the euro area in the general budget of the european union. the meseberg declaration, which has become the central reference for european future, calls for a budget for the euro area, without however a poster with the details, which do not exist in any other country. we must therefore continue our work on this subject. as regards the financial perspectives, i repeat here what i said to the european council, that we must adopt them before the european parliament's big meeting with universal suffrage, that is to say before may next year, in what would be the guidelines of the future budgetary agreement. if we do not do this, if we repeat the same mistakes which led to the introduction of the present financial period, we will be failing in our duty. tens of thousands of european students will not be able to participate in the erasmus+ programme, while we propose, in the multiannual financial perspectives, to double the budget allocated to the erasmus programme, for the port to €35 billion. we are losing 5 000 research jobs every month, so 5 000 european researchers will be lost plus the financial support they need. i repeat my appeal to the member states and the european parliament to speed up their work, not to throw in the towel on easy arguments, but to solve the substantial question we face. the timing is therefore, in my eyes, more important than the thought. if we do not arrive at bon port at the right time, we will lose 100 000 projects in the fields of energy, health and social inclusion. who is to take responsibility? if the member states fail to reach agreement, the commission which succeeds mine will be criticised for not having followed up all the projects which are ours. i will travel to the united states, with the spirit that you know me, to discuss with the president of the united states the question of trade. the president of the european council has now reached agreement on the main points of our trade agreements. i will explain to the american president, as we have done, to the president of the european council and myself, when we are seen in the context of the g7 in canada, why we think that the deficit is on the other side of the barrier. if you add the trade in goods, the trade in services and the profits made by american multinationals in europe, the deficit is on the other side of the atlantic, so we must not be left to chance, we must be objective in the debate and we will see, in autopsy, what will happen. as regards brexit, we have been waiting for several months for the downing street white paper and we will see, in the analysis, what happens. i would like to say here, however, that we will not accept that the irish question is isolated to the point of being the only question not yet resolved at the end of the negotiations. all of us, we are irish. (applause) i would like to thank
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not alone in this. jean-claude juncker put the question to the chamber: glass half full or glass half empty? i would say that in the last ratings we had an empty glass. in that sense, we're glad there's something inside. if you look at the council's results, we have been very critical of the council in recent times. this time we can say that progress has been made - and i would like to thank you on behalf of my group - for example on migration policy. the 10 000 frontex officers, the clear commitment to provide the centres in both africa and europe, the consideration of providing africa and turkey with the necessary funds, are clear progress. so it's positive, and we welcome these results. it has always been clear to us in the epp group that there are two sides to the same coin: a committed and determined border guard and, on the other hand, a resettlement programme where we extend our hand to the most vulnerable people in the world and invite them to europe and welcome them. we believe that both sides should be united. i can say this as a party politician: if it is possible for prime minister tsipras to implement the turkey agreement in greece - which means, in practical terms, that refugees are returned directly from lesbos to turkey without any checks - and if this is possible in a country governed by the left, then it is also possible to speak out in the mediterranean for the same concept to be applied in the fight against the smuggling gangs there. the second point i would like to make is, of course, the monetary question: not as much as we would have liked, but progress, the clear commitment to further development, the european monetary fund, and above all, the most important thing, the crown jewel: the backstop, which is designed to safeguard our financial markets. the emphasis on investment and personal responsibility buzzword deposit insurance is a real highlight. the devil's in the details here. that means that we shall see by december whether we really make progress in this matter. we must also be careful about this, because there are epp leaders and liberal leaders who are very sceptical about some of these developments. so we will also have to work in our parties to be able to persuade people to move forward. mr president-in-office, i would just like to add one more reminder: in the light of all these developments, it would be wrong to leave the chamber of democracy of europe out of the picture. if we are going to create a european monetary fund, if we are going to move towards an investment budget, then there must be a place where this is democratically legitimized and can be controlled in the future, and that is the european parliament. that is why i ask that this be taken into account. the third point is brexit. a lot has been said. i would just like to emphasize and recall the two points made by my group. the first point: i think people in europe need to know in march 2019 what it means to leave the european union. if we just activate the transition period and nothing changes, then i think it will cause damage, political damage. it must be clear that something changes when you leave the european union. and secondly, it must be clear that we need to define what 'long-term partnership' means in concrete terms. i cannot stand before my constituents next may and tell them that although britain is leaving, we have agreed on a transitional period where nothing changes at all for the time being, and i cannot give any answer whatsoever to what the withdrawal actually means for the city of london, for economic contacts, for the euro, or perhaps for the questions of police cooperation. if all these questions are open to an exit, then you cannot explain this to any citizen in europe. that is why we need clear statements in both areas. in march 2019, whether or not it is done will make a difference, there can be no cherry-picking, and there must be long-term clarity on what leaving actually means. i have my doubts on both counts as to whether this will be feasible. and that is why i would like to say on behalf of my group that there will be no automaticity in approving a withdrawal agreement. the two points must be clarified in the autumn. and lastly, foreign policy. i thank you, mr president-in-office, for the clear signal on russia. the fact that we're extending sanctions on russia is a clear signal. given that america and russia are meeting in helsinki, it is important that we have a clear position. violence and war cannot be the means of politics. and that's why we support the sanctions and hope that russia will return to a partnership path.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to welcome president tusk to this house. it is good to have you here, mr tusk. i do not exactly know about the glasses in the council meeting – half full or half empty – i don’t care too much about the glasses but i am worried about the results. if i ask myself why european citizens very often become more and more irritated about our institutions, one answer could be that we are permanently selling victories where no progress, or no sufficient progress, was achieved. this, i would like to say, is also one of the results of the last european council. european and monetary union: progress. the big crisis in 2008 to 2009 – that is 10 years, my friends, 10 years we have been waiting for strengthening of our institutions. are we waiting for the next crisis to hit european citizens? or why is that necessary? why cannot we speed up? on migration: we lose lives each and every week in the mediterranean. each life is one life too many to lose. it is an incredible scandal that we do not get our act together and i do not question, president tusk, your personal willingness to do something about it, but we, the leaders of three groups in this house, the liberals, the greens and we, the social democrats, have written a letter to you: please put the dublin reform at the top of the agenda because this is the cornerstone for everything. until today, we did not see any political response. i am not satisfied with the result of this council. i think what europe needs is progressive leadership and i could not detect progressive leadership. i could see that some members of the council, some heads of state or government tried to add additional value to the conversation. pedro sánchez was jumping in and saying we have a new policy in spain. i welcome this. cyprus was doing something – they are ready for bilaterals – but this is not enough, we need structural solutions. we need a complete dublin reform. if i ask myself what the building block of the resolution, the final statement, was then, yes, i can detect a building block. the building block is that everybody has something where he can claim victory – but nothing is going to happen, and this is not enough for europe and this is not enough for the european citizens and for the big challenges we have to face. ich frage mich: sie sind viel besser als andere in der lage, die blockaden zu analysieren, die es im visegrád-block gibt, wenn es zur frage der migration, zur frage der flüchtlinge kommt. aber wann ist denn der zeitpunkt, wo wir einladen, wo sie einladen zur großen debatte, zur großen europäischen unterhaltung darüber, was wir eigentlich brauchen, um aus den sackgassen herauszukommen? wann kommt diese große debatte? wie viele menschen sollen noch sterben, bis diese große debatte kommt, wo wir dann fragen: ja, was sind eure interessen? natürlich haben die visegrád-staaten interessen. sie wollen in sicherheit leben – das ist verteidigung und sicherheit. das wissen wir. sie wollen energiesicherheit haben, sie wollen auch morgen kohäsionspolitik haben. das sind alles relevante themen. aber wann kommen wir denn dazu, sie einfach mal mit den anderen fragen zu kombinieren, wo wir dringend auf solidarität warten: bei der migration, bei den flüchtlingen?! warum gibt es kein paket, herr präsident tusk?! warum nicht?! ich interessiere mich nicht für halb leere gläser oder für halb volle gläser. es ist ein skandal, dass wir in europa nicht vorankommen, und das ist es, worauf die menschen warten, und deswegen können wir nicht zufrieden sein, und deswegen müssen wir in den nächsten wochen und monaten drängen. meine fraktion steht zur verfügung, das europäische projekt wieder stark zu machen. aber das, was geliefert worden ist, wird nicht reichen.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to say to president tusk that i can only share the disappointment that we have still not got anywhere on the whole eurozone reform matters. we have not got anywhere on the multiannual financial framework (mff) and so many important issues. the eurozone reform has not just been around since yesterday; we have had this crisis since before 2010. we know what to do, and it’s not going ahead because the heads of state and government are just not doing their work and are not getting ahead. instead, at the council the only talk was about migration, migration, migration – as if it’s the only problem that we have. i care very much about migration, but i have to say that there are other things we have to talk about. president tusk, when talking about migration and refugees, you did not talk about the hundreds of lives that have been lost just in the last few days, while the rescue boats are stuck in the ports because some member states want to bring the people who actually rescue people to court. this is really an active engagement against rescue at sea. this is against any sort of international law, but it is also against any sort of humanity not to let others, who want to do the work, rescue people. this is not something you talked about. i wonder if anyone still remembers lampedusa 2013 and how we all went and said that we were so sorry that hundreds of people had drowned. but now, again, hundreds of people are drowning and we are turning a blind eye. i do not think this is direction europe should be going in. you also didn’t talk about the common european asylum system that this parliament has been preparing, where we have managed to get political compromises together across the groups. so i really wonder why we managed to do it and you don’t manage to do it, whereas the same parties are present here and in the council. this is what you did not talk about. instead, you talked about creating this disembarkation platform: camps somewhere in the sahara. you might say that people can ask for asylum, but that’s the thing: the one word about resettlement mentioned in the conclusions is ‘voluntary’. you will not find a member state which is going to admit those people who might get asylum there. you will just put the refugees somewhere in the camps in the sahara and that’s the end of it. if this is being implemented, it’s basically an end to the right to ask for asylum here in the european union, and this is not where we should go. the right to ask for asylum was invented in europe. the aim of the geneva convention, just after the second world war and as a result of the incredibly horrible experience, was to never again let anyone suffer and not find protection. that was the aim of the geneva convention, and i do not think we should give up on that so easily. so we have managed to find a compromise in parliament and, even if you want to close off the borders completely, it will never work. you can never completely close off a border, but what actually you can do, with the heads of state and government, is extinguish any light of humanitarianism and any light of the human rights that the european union has always stood for. i do not think we should not go that way. we should stand up for human rights, especially the rights of people who are not living here, and especially the rights of people who are not us, because that’s when you show how much you care about human rights. (applause)
madam president, i am glad that president tusk and president juncker did not only talk about refugees but also about the other challenge, or should i say catastrophe, that is brexit. we have heard here numerous times that the situation does not seem to be going smoothly. i had the opportunity to talk to the austrian chancellor, mr kurz, at lunchtime, and i asked him the same thing i have asked you already – that he should consider during his presidency, which is the last presidency of this parliament – and, by the way, the presidency where the deal would have to be done, or not – i asked him to offer britain a new deal which enables at least the remainers in that country to stop this terrible situation where two trains are running on the same track towards each other. the other thing i asked him for is should, indeed, there be chaos in london, maybe in october or november, that he tries to offer a britain an extension beyond march 2019. should he do this, i would appreciate, president tusk and president juncker, that you support him.
i have to say, madam president, we were here in the plenary, six years ago to the day, discussing what was then called the four-president plan. we were of the opinion that we urgently needed to reform the euro area so that the euro would be safe the next time structural crises hit europe. the reform has been postponed time and again, plans have been put forward and mr tusk himself has said that if the reforms are not finally implemented by june of this year, he will tell us who bears the political responsibility for them. we were lucky, because the last six years, the global economic policy environment has been relatively stable. but if we look at america, mr. trump, the global economic risks are further down the line. so i ask myself: where are the reforms we need to make the euro stable? the commission's proposals are on the table - from tax cooperation to a finance minister who will establish democratic control of the eurogroup in europe, joint deposit guarantee, the common budget of the eurozone, etc. there are far more far-reaching proposals here from the parliament than from others. so when will the council take up its responsibility and implement these proposals? mr tusk, please keep your word. i understand you're busy with other things right now. president tusk, please keep your promise and tell us today who is responsible for the fact that we didn't get the full eurozone reform package, and please defend outspokenly your proposals, because we need them in order to make the euro waterproof.
i have to say, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, mrs merkel said that migration could become the fate of the european union when she spoke about the summit, and she is right in this case. mr juncker was speaking - perhaps as a minor speaker - about the post-war question. well, some of that is true of this summit. the european union is not a party to the schengen agreement, and it is not a party to the schengen agreement, and it is not a party to the schengen agreement. the new, young, fresh europe is what we saw embodied this morning with sebastian kurz. the new europe is the europe of orbán, kurz, salvini and seehofer, who has now also rejected merkel's policy in germany. many in this parliament do not want that to happen. mr weber spoke again today of resettlement programmes. mr weber of the csu is the one who is helping mr seehofer with the resettlement programmes from africa to europe. ladies and gentlemen, you have been wrong in the vast majority of cases. you were wrong to put administration and planning ahead of the market economy. you were wrong to trade the homeland for hedonism, and you were wrong to claim morality for your politics alone. what europe needs now is unity, justice and freedom, but unity under the very realistic policy that orbán started, which kurz continued and which seehofer has now carried to germany. we need a return to the rule of law, not only in migration but also in economic and monetary policy, and we need freedom for citizens, because we make policy for citizens and not for your ideologies, ladies and gentlemen.
i have to say, madam president, the european council announces fake news. reception centres in third countries no country has agreed to this so far. and if so, what about the no-rejection rule? and would people in need of protection also come to europe from there? or is it simply a matter of not taking in people fleeing war or torture? there are already reception centres in europe, and there are no binding statements on redistribution. more staff for frontex what for? better control or containment? the national governments must finally agree on a comprehensive reform of the european asylum system. we need common rules on labour migration and agreements with countries of origin of this labour migration to further strengthen economies and democracy, protect their citizens from false promises from smugglers and take back rejected asylum seekers. the heads of state and government must finally stop making people feel insecure with fake news and then deceiving them with sham solutions. i am not saying that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. protect our citizens by controlling arms and drug smuggling, protect against the import of dangerous and counterfeit products, and protect the rights of our citizens by, for example, implementing eprivacy! do your job!
i have to say, madam president, the council also took a decision on enlargement, and i think it was a good decision. the fact that negotiations with macedonia and albania are to be opened in june next year was the right decision. albania has taken some steps with its judicial reform which must also be appreciated, and macedonia has shown that it is on the right track with its attempt to reach an agreement with greece on the name issue, and also with the agreement with the bulgarians. i am very grateful to the council and to you, mr president tusk, and especially to you personally, for your commitment to this region. the majority of this house is clearly in favour of this policy, the commission is in favour of it and 25 of the 28 member states would have been right to go one step further. nevertheless, it was a good result and the people of the western balkans deserved it.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank my colleagues in the other rapporteurs' groups and all the shadow rapporteurs, because they know very well what we have done in the last weeks and months and how difficult it has been to reach compromises in the end. i think we have to decide here in this house how the transport sector is to be organised in the next decade. and i also believe that the fate of three million drivers, and mainly drivers, is at stake. the question from the beginning was and is that we want a level playing field and at the same time we should not allow social dumping to become a business model. among the cross-cutting achievements of this house, i would like to mention that we will have an earlier introduction of the so-called intelligent tachograph, in our view from 2022. and we have also managed to agree on a cross-domain basis to introduce national electronic registers, which will be aggregated at european level by the erru. because one thing is clear, i think, that the best rules don't help if we can't implement and control them. as regards the posting dossier, as i said, i would like to thank mrs merja kyllönen in particular. i think that the posting of workers directive must benefit all workers and i do not think that we should set a precedent here with regard to mobility. because what's next? maybe the craft or the care? we can't do that. so let's take this in. and when we talk about compromise, we have this so-called danish model on the table. and i think we can all take that decision with a clear conscience, because it prevents social dumping, it is more controllable, it has fewer bureaucratic hurdles and it helps companies that do their job honestly and pay their people properly. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. it is not worth extending the driving times indefinitely, which the rapporteur has also prevented in many areas. we can also note positively that the drivers should drive home every three weeks. the big problem on europe's motorways today is that we have models that allow three months of work away from home and a month of holiday at home. this cannot be the european union's answer to the citizens of the 21st century. so i think that's the way we should go. the inclusion of the so-called light commercial vehicles is also correct, because we are seeing more and more a shift away from the large lorries towards the so-called sprinter classes, which run wild on european motorways without any speed, without any driving or rest periods, without any controls. that is why we have, if i may say so, controlled cabotage and have fenced it in and imposed restrictions where it has led to wild growth. there will continue to be a regulation which will ultimately prevent the letter box companies, and we have also enforced new criteria for the registration of light commercial vehicles. in conclusion, we can say that we must show all the companies whose business model is based on social dumping to generate benefits, that we must show this business model a clear edge. in conclusion, i would like to thank once again my predecessor, our colleague jens nilsson, who unfortunately passed away recently.
mr president, the european union is founded on fundamental principles; equal treatment is one of them. in the vote tomorrow, we can show workers from north to south, and from east to west, that this means something to us. they will look to this plenary and ask themselves: will the european union defend our rights? not in an abstract way, not when we talk about the pillar of social rights somewhere in gothenburg, signing a declaration or having a good photo opportunity, but really in a way that will affect their everyday lives and working conditions. to me it is clear: drivers are not second-class workers in this union. when it comes to posting, they deserve exactly the same rights as any other workers in the eu. tomorrow we have the chance to stand up for those rights for hard-working people, for fair pay, and for their working conditions; and we should stand up also for the fundamental principle of the european union that is equal treatment. in order to build a european internal market, so to speak a european labour market that safeguards freedom of movement and the provision of services as well as fair working conditions and fair competition, we have to find workable solutions based on principles. equal treatment has to be one of them. let us show that to workers tomorrow in the vote.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. what is this about, what is the purpose of this package? the aim is to create the right conditions for the transport of goods by lorry in europe. this is partly true of buses, but i'll get to that later. as a reminder, we have the free movement of people, goods and services as one of the fundamental rules in the eu and that is also what we are talking about fair european rules. the problem is that the unskilled truck drivers are also affected. we need these people in the future too, and they should of course be given fair treatment. we're here to make sure. most employers treat their people well, but there are some black sheep, and we need to address that. i am talking specifically about the driving and rest periods. we have proposed many good things in this regard, such as sleeping in the cabin in certified parking spaces, the inclusion of light commercial vehicles and much more. we also need some exceptions, and i want to focus on those now: tachographing is compulsory for craftsmen within a 150 km radius, for example, and asphalt must be laid when it is finished, and this concerns road construction. and lastly, bus drivers are not truck drivers. they need different rules if they are already dealt with in the same law. passenger transport is different from the transport of goods.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i would like to thank you very much for recognising the need to deal with these politically sensitive reports in plenary rather than allowing a controversial committee vote to become the basis for the negotiating mandate. finally, and only after the rejection of the mandate, the concerns of many of us were taken seriously. there are now genuine compromise proposals that will improve the tran result. that willingness has been completely lacking before. better late than never. if you do not want truck drivers to drive across europe for low wages and without social security, if you want, as i do, social dumping and nomadism to be a thing of the past, if you want fair and transparent rules of the game not only in football but above all in the real world, then let us support these compromises together. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies. this means: please vote for a limitation of cabotage per member state to 48 hours with a cooling-off period, for the inclusion of international transport in the posting directive after a specific period of time, for more efficient controls, for the special situation of the coach industry and for the extension of the existing exemptions to driving and rest periods.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. our aim in tomorrow's vote should be to find a balanced compromise which protects european road haulage drivers and maintains the free movement of goods within the european union. we should not be guided by national interests or even protectionist ideas. excessive restrictions on international transport would make logistics processes slower and more expensive, impose a high bureaucratic burden on businesses and ultimately impede the free movement of goods. there are a number of amendments seeking this compromise, and i hope that they will also find support tomorrow. i would also like to say that bus transport is bus transport and lorry transport is lorry transport. i think it's good that we're trying to separate things now. and we should also be careful that where we mean international transport, we also address it and do not suddenly meet the craftsmen. i hope that these exceptions will be supported.
rapporteur. – mr president, i think everything has been said. it is not necessary to discuss once again all the details and all the contents, but i can tell you that tomorrow is important because we have to solve this issue of nomadic drivers; these kinds of wild west operations must be solved. second, no protectionism within the european union. third, the level playing field must be ensured and guaranteed. fourth, we have to prevent this social dumping. all three dossiers, all of them, each of them, will provide this in a good way, but it depends on the details. i think the details are very spread within this parliament; there are positions from east to west and from north to south, but in the end i think it goes in the right direction when we support the drivers through a good, proper life for the drivers and giving them and guaranteeing them a good social life also. for the companies too. we have to secure and we have to guarantee that even the companies, the smes, must have the chance to live, must have the chance to earn some money, and not just the big hauliers and the big logistics companies. they should not earn all the money, which is the case at the moment. the pressure on the sector is very high and i will try tomorrow with my group to facilitate that a bit more, but i cannot guarantee that this will be, in the end, the situation or the position which could be the best for all colleagues here in the parliament. i have to thank the commission and my colleagues as rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs. let us vote and see what will come out tomorrow.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. in may, the world was shocked to learn that ebola had been reported in the northeast of the democratic republic of congo, in the area of the city of mbandaka, where millions of people live, and that people had already died from the ebola virus. the apparent lack of catastrophe, as in 2014 and 2015 in west africa, seems to be due to the rapid deployment of international aid and the lessons learned from the epidemic three years ago. nevertheless, the fight against ebola remains a challenge. the vaccine developed so far is very expensive, difficult to store, and only preventive. the local conditions in the democratic republic of congo make it very difficult to reach people outside the big cities. in addition, people there are suspicious of foreign organizations, some even suggesting that they are only trying to make money from the disease. nevertheless, the threat of an ebola epidemic sheds further light on the disastrous political and social situation in the democratic republic of congo, which urgently needs to be resolved. otherwise, the threat of disease will continue.
the next speaker is mr coburn and i can tell him that his team is in the lead.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this debate. we agree that this is a sensitive but important issue. first of all, it is clear that the failure to assist people in danger of death is not only unthinkable but also illegal under international law. we are ready to work with you to prevent the criminalisation and prosecution of citizens and organisations who help those in danger and need. however, we will continue our fight against smugglers and traffickers who exploit the desperation of migrants. i would also like to point out that national criminal laws already exclude the criminalisation of humanitarian aid in most cases. refusing to help people in an emergency is even a crime. i'd like to be very clear on that. the duty of assistance at sea to anyone in distress is already an obligation under international law. now, as regards the situation in the mediterranean sea, it is essential that all those involved comply with international rules. this is our guiding principle. we should never forget that we are all working towards the same goal: saving lives at sea and putting an end to the business model used by smugglers to exploit human misery. our objective is to replace this model by legal and secured pathways for those in need of protection. we have made good progress over the past few years in this direction, and we have to step up our efforts. as regards the situation in hungary, the recently adopted legislative package raises concerns as to its compatibility with several aspects of the acquis. it is very clear to us that we should not turn our backs on the values and principles on which europe is built. on a more general note, the commission is aware of the challenges faced by many civil society organisations in europe, and is committed to supporting a strong, independent and pluralistic civil society in the member states. the commission will continue to promote, within its competences, full respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. we will also continue to actively foster, support and preserve the role of civil society organisations in promoting and safeguarding the european union's fundamental rights and values.
the motion for a resolution to be tabled pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure will be announced at a later date. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 5 july 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the definition of smes by mr pieper, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy (o-000050/2018 - b8-0031/2018) (2018/2545 ((rsp)).
a writer. the commission has already done so. first of all, thank you for the opportunity to be here today to answer this oral question. ladies and gentlemen, private enterprise in small businesses, that's the real economy. these are business ideas with concrete services, with concrete products, these are the jobs on the ground. these entrepreneurs and employees pay taxes. taxes are used to fund social services. in this sense, smes are the foundation of society. amazon and google would be nothing without the real business. we are also in favour of a modern right to protection of personal interests and we are in favour of fair taxation. today's debate is about how we define small and mediumsized enterprises. the commission has launched a consultation on this. the old definition of 250 employees and a turnover of no more than eur 50 million is outdated. it's from 2003, it's almost 15 years old. we have taken this opportunity as a parliament to make two proposals. first, we want to adjust the definition slightly upwards. economic growth, inflation - we have to take that into account. upward adjustment also means a certain flexibility. if firms receive funding over project periods of several years and exceed the thresholds during this period, the preferred funding access must remain there should be more flexibility here. the same applies to red tape. here too, there must be longer transitional periods as the holdings grow out of the classical definition. the second point: we would like to - and this is a very important concern for us - invite the definition to take the subject of smes a little further. when companies grow very fast, management does not grow in all areas. the commission's proposal is to provide a 'bureaucratic relief' for the firms which are otherwise very reliable, such as being owner-managed or having a high equity ratio. commissioner, please also consider further red tape. we often have companies with 1000 or more employees that should not be given the full force of the legislation, for example because they produce very few hazardous substances, emit very little co2, sell very little online, etc. there are many examples. if we were to take the medium-sized enterprises a step further, perhaps by considering a mid-cap category, we could deregulate more effectively. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. so it is in this spirit that we invite the commission to make proposals on the adjustment of thresholds and new relief for a mid-cap category. you are in the consultation procedure, so please take parliament's suggestion into account. we also link this - and this is also a very central concern - with the desire to make thinking about smes in the commission more of a cross-cutting task for all commissioners and directorates-general, because i believe that in this area, in the sense of reducing bureaucracy, much more can be achieved with mandatory smes tests if all the commission departments and directorates-general have the idea that the full force of european legislation is not equally applied to all companies.
mr president, this debate has been extremely interesting, and it is clear that the definition of enterprises will need to be supplemented. i would like to add one more aspect to the debate and one more point of view for the commissioner. i think that practice shows that the definition also needs to be refined so that the term 'small and medium-sized enterprise' is not misused. so that someone doesn't purposely create a small and medium-sized enterprise out of a large one and thereby gain economic, subsidy and other benefits. there are case law of the european court of justice which deal with the question of linked and partner enterprises, and it would be good if the commission translated these case law into legal definitions and made it clear to our entrepreneurs that they have a clear legal certainty as to when linked enterprises are still small and mediumsized enterprises and when the sum of their employees and turnover means that they are not small and mediumsized enterprises. i would also like to stress that this subject is also frequently abused, so i ask the commission to look into this.
member of the commission. – mr president, i want to thank all of the speakers and members of the european parliament for all their remarks and ideas. i agree on the importance of the sme definition and that we need a definition that is clear and that is easy to use. that is why, as i said, we have carried out this vast and exhaustive evaluation, and that is why we are now preparing the global assessment. as soon as we are ready and as soon as the assessment is finalised, i will come back to you with the results. let me also say that we are also addressing the other issues that you mentioned: access to finance, social enterprises and administrative burdens. i only mentioned it briefly in my initial speech but all of these issues are being addressed by me or my colleagues in the commission. i hope that we can continue to work on smes. let me add that we have recently proposed a new single market programme for combining all of the programmes with regard to the single market – most of these are, of course, connected with small and medium-sized enterprises – and this will be a programme for the next multiannual financial framework. a key part of the programme will be the successor of the current, successful, cosme programme. we also want to build on the success of initiatives such as the enterprise europe network and the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs. i think there are many issues to be discussed, and of course i commit to coming back to you again as soon as our assessment and all the work we are doing on the basis of the evaluation that was finalised in may are ready. thank you for your involvement in the sme cause and for your interest, including through your work on the resolution. i look forward to continue working with you. (applause)
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 4 july 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the recommendation by lászló tőkés, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the comprehensive and enhanced partnership agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of armenia, of the other part (12543/2017 - c8-0422/2017 - 2017/0238 ((nle)) (a8-0177/2018) and the report by lászló tőkés, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the comprehensive and enhanced partnership agreement between the european union and the european atomic energy community and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of armenia, of the other part (2017/2269 (a8-0179/2018)).
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first of all, let me thank the rapporteur and all the colleagues that i have been working with over these years, and as he reminded us just now, years that have been very intense and not always easy, but that we can today celebrate with an agreement that, i agree, can be defined as historical. for me it was a great pleasure just a few days ago to welcome the new foreign minister of armenia to brussels, very soon after the new government took office, in what was a smooth, democratic peaceful transition for our first partnership council with armenia. we could not have chosen a better moments to have this first meeting, and it was indeed a pleasure for me to conclude, in one way, a long journey and, at the same time, begin a new journey together. as you all know, last november we signed a comprehensive and enhanced partnership agreement with armenia. last april the armenian parliament ratified the agreement unanimously, with the then government and the opposition voting together. i can say, having worked with both the previous government and now with the new one, that i believe personally that all armenian parties understand very well that a partnership with the european union is something vital for the country. it is not about geopolitics. it is not about spheres of influence. it is not a partnership against somebody else. it is a partnership for, first of all, our citizens: the citizens of armenia, our own citizens in the european union for economic growth, for job creation, for better and stronger democracies. it is a partnership that can help advance the demands raised by the armenian people also in these latest months. the foreign minister informed me of the very ambitious reform agenda of the new government and the first concrete action it has already taken in the fight against corruption. in the partnership council meeting we also agreed on the importance of an effective and independent judicial system, also as a precondition for economic and social development. this is the right time for armenia to work on a new criminal code and a new criminal procedural code. these are important reforms, not because the european union asked for them, but because the people of armenia asked for them. they have been asking for these reforms for a long time, and now i think we have the instruments, including with this agreement, to accompany and encourage a government that seems to put these reforms at the core of their action. our new partnership provides the perfect framework to support the reforms. the european union will invest eur 160 million in the next four years. we are ready to support many different fields of action. just a few examples, from the small and medium enterprises to helping improving the business environment or investing in energy efficiency, and the list could continue. we are ready to use our new external investment plan to incentivise private investment in strategic sectors for the armenian economy. in november, in parallel with the signature of the agreements, we had our eastern partnership summit, and we agreed on 20 concrete actions to improve daily lives within our eastern partners. i have seen the strong determination of the new armenian government to cooperate even more and to try and deliver together on this very ambitious agenda. our first contacts with the new government have been very productive. the atmosphere at our first meeting could not have been more positive, friendly and constructive, and the foreign minister also informed me that the government intends to hold early elections after reforming the electoral code. your draft resolution rightly stresses the importance of helping armenia in the electoral process, and i am convinced the european parliament can accompany and facilitate this process with its expertise and through electoral observation. you really have a key role to play here. the new elections should build public confidence in the electoral process, particularly by addressing recommendations by the osce and its office for democratic institutions and human rights. so as always, not only do i believe your vote tomorrow will be a very important moment, but also let me say also that your daily work in this particular context will be extremely important and helpful. as always, i count on the precious work of this parliament to accompany the strong partnership and friendship we have with armenia, in particular in this extremely important moment for the country.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, two weeks ago i had the honour of chairing an ad hoc delegation from the committee on foreign affairs to yerevan and, in less than 24 hours, we met the new prime minister, nikol pashinyan, several ministers, the speaker of the assembly, and also members of parliament from the ruling party and the opposition. let me highlight my three main findings from this trip. firstly, the political transition in armenia took place within the constitutional framework and without casualties. this is remarkable and it was only possible due to the level—headed reaction of all parties involved. secondly, the short-term and long-term goals of fighting corruption and reforming the electoral law are most welcome, effective implementation is key and reforms should involve the opposition. as regards the next elections, which the high representative just mentioned, the european union should be ready to launch an election observation mission. thirdly, this comprehensive and enhanced partnership agreement with armenia is a milestone. the historical window of opportunity is not very wide and, as the european union, we should support armenia where we can.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, madam high representative! it's already day 29 of the strike of our interpreters. armenia's survival in a politically heated, geostrategically central region of the world is vital to define its own specific development path. it is essential that armenia should not be faced with either-or alternatives in developing its relations with its powerful neighbours and partners, alternatives which are in part nonexistent, because the shares of trade with russia and with the eu diverge only marginally and the products of both sides cannot replace each other. it is therefore welcome that, following armenia's decision to move towards the eurasian union integration project, the eu has embarked on a path of 'both-and-also' with this agreement. while respecting the specificity of this armenian development path, it must also be clear that the development of relations must be based on substantial progress in the stagnating resolution of the nagorno-karabakh conflict, which has been unresolved for decades. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the commission has already taken a number of measures to reduce the risk of conflict. we expect confidence-building measures such as direct high-level talks, proposals for the disengagement and disarmament of the parties to the conflict and effective monitoring of the ceasefire. we also expect to refrain from any activities which would precondition a final settlement of the conflict.
mr president, i wanted to support this agreement because i consider it a great success. in the complex geopolitical situation in which armenia finds itself, when it is in principle in conflict with its neighbour azerbaijan and when it has to maintain more or less good relations with the russian federation, i am very pleased - and here i commend our european diplomacy - that we did not give up on armenia after it did not sign the association agreement with the european union in 2015, but concluded an agreement that binds it to the eurasian economic union and therefore more or less orients it towards the russian space. i am in favour of this, given the difficult situation, the dispute with azerbaijan, and it is good, despite this, to develop relations with this country and to strengthen the trend of cooperation between the european union, european countries and armenia. so i welcome the deal and thank you for it.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first of all let me say how glad i am to see a united parliament on this, in supporting this agreement we have reached with armenia. i can tell you it was not an easy decision in 2015, neither on our side, nor on their side, to decide to open negotiations on this agreement. i believe it was the right choice to make at the time. as you said, it is proving to be even more important today because this allows us today to have exactly the right tools to accompany a very ambitious reform agenda that the government is determined to put in place. i think it was the right political choice at the time. i have to say that both on our side and on the armenian side – sorry to use the same word twice – we managed to manage the negotiations wisely and we managed to achieve a good result. it really was a good moment for me when we managed to sign this agreement last november. and today, we have all the potential instruments we can use at full speed and with all determination. one point that was raised by some of you at the beginning was visa liberalisation dialogue. we discussed this during the council we had a couple of weeks ago. you know that the visa facilitation and readmission agreement with armenia being implemented is a technical precondition for taking the decision by the council to start the visa liberalisation dialogue. we have had four meetings of the joint eu-armenia committees, and we see that the visa facilitation and admission agreements with armenia are being satisfactorily implemented, so the technical precondition is met. we still see the need for closer cooperation between us in the area of return and readmission, but we are on the right track, which means that it is now a political decision to be taken by the council. this parliament can have a role in that as well, in have your voice heard with this other institution. having said that, i thank you very much for all the support and i will try to make good use of it, including for an electoral observation mission at the beginning of our work, when the time comes. i count on your availability to do that work together.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 4 july 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
prime minister of poland. mr president, i would like to thank you for your support. minister, please! the european union is a party to the treaty on european union. ladies and gentlemen of the house! mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your contribution. ladies and gentlemen! it is an honour for me, as prime minister of the government of the republic of poland, to be able to speak here today in strasbourg, to be able to present the polish point of view on the most important challenges facing the european union. it is also an honour to speak here in the european parliament, which, of all the institutions of the european union, is the one that most closely reflects the democratically elected voice of its citizens. the european parliament is an important place for the functioning of the union, not only as an institution with a huge influence on the shape of eu law, but also as a forum for the discussion of decisions that will shape the direction of european integration in the coming years. this year poland celebrates the five hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the first sejm and the centenary of the restoration of independence, when we were one of the first countries in the world to grant women full democratic rights. this shows how deeply rooted in polish political culture is the idea of parliamentarism, democracy and the rule of law. it is the national parliaments that are the voice of the sovereign and the living symbol of democracy. the debate on the future of europe is one of the most important debates we face, especially as we mark the centenary of the end of the first world war, which began the difficult history of twentieth-century europe. it was after the cataclysm of two world wars and the unimaginable crimes of genocide that the free peoples of europe made the historic decision more than 60 years ago to embark on integration, to seek common ground despite our differences. if it were not for the iron curtain and the tragic division of europe after world war ii, poland would also have been a founder of the european communities in accordance with the will of the polish government in exile. this division has put polish society outside the first wave of european integration, but also outside the sustainable development. the european union is a major player in the world economy, and it is the only country in the world which has a strong and stable monetary policy. like every nation in europe, we have our expectations of it, but we also have a lot to offer. it is impossible to understand the continuity and essence of europe without recognising its greek, roman and, ultimately, judeo-christian roots. without christianity, european diversity would never have achieved the sense of universality, unity in diversity, which is so much appreciated today, especially in this house. the motto of our union is not just empty words. our nations have been shaped for hundreds of years by their culture and institutions. respect for these national identities is the foundation of trust in the union. the constitutional pluralism enshrined in article 4 of the treaty is a great value and each country in the union has the right to shape its legal system in accordance with its own traditions. for me, the european idea has always been the polish raison d'état, both when i was a young boy in the anti-communist opposition fighting for freedom and democracy, and when i was director of accession negotiations in the committee for european integration in the 1990s working on poland's entry into the union. today, almost 30 years after the fall of communism, we are still in the difficult process of putting together a european experience, a european memory. but our differences must not obscure our common goal of the safety of our citizens and economic development. ladies and gentlemen of the house, the european union has been grappling with existential crises in recent years: the banking crisis, the financial crisis, the eurozone crisis, the migration crisis, brexit and the aggressive policy of russia. the five failed community referendums in recent years, as well as the changing political landscape in european countries, all prove that the european project needs a new opening. some say that the union is always in crisis, that every change in the treaties is the result of a certain excess. but our situation today seems to be unique, different from the 1960s or the 1980s or the first decade of this century. and that's because we're not dealing with one crisis, but many cumulative crises at the same time. so the answer must be based on the best possible understanding of our circumstances. we all see that many europeans no longer show enthusiasm for integration. some of them are openly opposed. we can be outraged by that. we can close our eyes and pretend it's just the margins. but it doesn't change the reality. that's not margin. this is a real sign that we've made mistakes, and an opportunity to right those mistakes. so instead of complaining about the danger of populism, we should ask ourselves why so many europeans are unhappy with the direction the union has taken over the years. the answer to that question has been given many times and in many different ways, but i think the most pertinent one is the one that has been at the root of all the great changes in our history. people have the gene of freedom and they want to decide for themselves what their lives, their families and their communities will be like. when they see that they are losing that influence, that they have no real influence on the fate of europe and the world, the natural reaction is to protest against this situation. i think that in this house we are all more or less convinced that european integration is one of the best ideas in the history not only of europe but of the world. but if our citizens do not share this belief, there will be no further integration. the further development of the union must therefore take account of their voice. in other words, the democratic legitimacy of the european project must be strengthened if it is to move forward. you can call it populism, but sooner or later you have to ask yourself if the answer to the expectations of the citizens is really populism, or is it the essence of democracy? europe is experiencing a democratic awakening that shows that we need to renew the social contract that created the great success of post-war integration. this contract was about rebuilding a sense of security and an economic policy that offered relative prosperity for all. today, we must make good on that contract by restoring a sense of security and hope that our children will have a better life than we have. only this can restore confidence in the european project. so how do we respond to this democratic awakening? the answer is a community that adapts to the challenges of the present without abandoning its traditional responsibilities to its citizens. to tackle all these challenges, we need to redefine the balance between nation states and cooperation at the european level. this is what the union of nations 2.0 should be, a de gaulle vision adapted to the challenges of our time. this is the vision of the union that poland wants to propose. as part of this intelligent adaptation, we propose to focus on three main aspects. the first is union 4.0, the european union as the gateway to the fourth industrial revolution and a deeper common market. the second is a secure union, which is aware of the geopolitical challenges it faces and is prepared to respond to them with a single voice of solidarity. and the third point is a civil union, which is a socially sensitive union, which supports its citizens against the power of global corporations, a solidarity union. and now i'm going to briefly go over these three areas. i have no doubt that more cooperation is needed, particularly in the face of the challenges of the changing nature of the global economy. the union should set ambitious targets and focus today on a bold budget and further economic integration within the internal market. the completion of the internal market, the increase in productivity can only be achieved by increasing competition in a fully integrated internal market. according to the european parliament's analysis, in the 14 years since the internal market was created, it has contributed to gdp growth ceteris paribus above the assumed growth by an additional eur 250 billion. so we need more of a common market, especially in services. the services sector accounts for around 70% of the union's gdp, but accounts for only 20-25% of intra-eu trade. the 2006 services directive needs a major revision to finally bring about the freedom to provide services. but there will be no truly single market without further ambitious action to combat inequalities, without an active cohesion policy. this policy is not one-sided, unrequited aid to the less developed countries. cohesion policy is first and foremost an investment in the development of the common market, which brings enormous commercial benefits, including for those who today are the most vocal in calling for its limitation. according to eu and our calculations, about 70-75% of each euro goes back to net payers in the form of orders and mandates. commissioner oettinger recently spoke of similar proportions. let me be clear: attempts to limit cohesion policy are populist. and it doesn't matter whether it's anti-european populism or supposedly pro-european populism under the eu flag. cohesion policy, an ambitious fight against inequalities, is a win-win situation for both the eu's founding countries and all other members. this fight against inequalities can be done not only through transfers under cohesion policy but also by sealing our tax systems. the vat gap must be tackled in a real way, and tax havens must be tackled at eu level. vat revenue is also union revenue. i would remind you that the commission's calculation shows that the losses resulting from tax avoidance in the union amount to up to eur 200 billion a year, and that vat fraud and losses amount to an additional eur 150 billion a year. if that's not the elephant in the room, i don't know what is. we did it in poland. we've dealt with criminals who cheat on tax returns, with fraudsters who rob our citizens. these people could afford the best law firm in the country. they've managed to delay the case for years, hide money, avoid responsibility, escape from a weak justice system. this justice system has been extremely inefficient and lenient with these criminals. the courts have handed down ridiculously low sentences, often with suspensions. and we've heard it everywhere that it has to be that way, that there's nothing we can do about it. and we just showed you that it can be done. we have thereby benefited the european union's revenues and also poland, the polish people. all it took was determination, a sense of purpose, and then a skillful effort to reach it. this is also our offer to europe: effective, proven legal solutions. we often talk about this in the european council. a state and a society robbed by bandits, by a mafia of terrorists, a state of ineffective justice was partly fictional. and we've been showing for the last two and a half years that an effective government can almost eliminate extreme poverty among children and youth. these are our very real social achievements. it is also essential that we cooperate very closely within the european union in the area of tax avoidance, including the so-called digital tax and tax havens. i also spoke to president tajani this morning about the european union's own resources. poland also supports this idea, which i know the majority of the european parliament also supports, namely the own income of the european union. so it is also necessary to reduce tax havens. these paradises are not directed against one country or another. their very existence threatens our entire economy. it allows billions of euros to leak out of our tax systems every year, so that this money doesn't go to our citizens. just as we prosecute tax criminals who commit individual fraud, we must work together to counter organized fraud that allows systemic and sometimes even state fraud. the modern economy also requires a new approach to competition law. it seems reasonable to establish a european antitrust authority at eu level, more suited to the challenges of today's digital economy. new competition rules and perhaps even sectoral regulations adapted to the digital age are also needed. have not google and facebook, for example, become essential facilities today, much like the transmission infrastructure in the energy sector? none of us in this room, and most importantly, none of our citizens, can imagine our daily lives without these tools. they are essential for functioning in the modern digital society and regulatory regulation must keep pace with these changes. the new investment plan for europe proposed by president juncker has proved a success. economic growth has accelerated and the european fund for strategic investments has generated €300 billion of additional investment to date. this fund should not be dismantled in 2020 but transformed into a new ambitious tool. the need for further strategic investment today is not a need to get out of the crisis but to ensure europe's competitiveness. the european investment bank warns that the union is suffering from a chronic lack of infrastructure investment. this expenditure is now at its lowest level in many years. the investment gap is over 600 billion euros a year. until we fill it, we won't be able to compete with other global powers. one such strategic objective is the european energy transition, which requires combining price competitiveness with geopolitical realism. what is needed? investing in innovation first. europe should create the world's largest clean-tech fund and put more emphasis on pro-market mechanisms to make the energy transition more cost-effective for european companies and citizens. after all, competitive energy prices are crucial to the competitiveness of national economies. the path taken by the european union towards a low-carbon, and perhaps even a zero-carbon, economy is certainly the right one. it's the way to a cleaner environment and better health for our citizens. in poland, we are well aware of the importance of these challenges, which is why we have taken a decisive step this year to combat smog and are introducing a package of solutions that will guarantee an improvement in air quality. however, when we set the union's next reduction targets, we must bear in mind that our countries start from a completely different level. until the economic transformation in 1989, the polish economy was based on heavy industry and coal-fired power. nevertheless, poland has made a huge effort, reducing co2 emissions by up to 30% in accordance with the kyoto protocol, against our commitment of 5%. we've exceeded our target six times. poland is ready and willing to participate in the european energy transition. but it must be based on equal opportunities and take greater account of the differences between our economies and support national efforts through different instruments. for years, poland was unable to switch to natural gas as it could only source it from one source - russia. thus, any attempt to increase the use of blue fuel would lead to a deterioration in our security. but all our efforts in central europe can be overshadowed by nordstream ii, which - let us be clear - is not an economic project, but a political project. the european union does not need nordstream ii, which increases the risk of destabilising central europe and gives russia very powerful tools to influence not only the european economy but also european politics. so the industry of the future will determine the reality of the global economy. artificial intelligence, machine learning, big data, industry 4.0 -- these are the pathways that can give a new impetus to our economy. just as the internal combustion engine played a huge role in the industrialization of the west, so european cooperation helped to build airbus, which today is the world leader in aircraft production, alongside boeing. it's time for new technology projects. poland is willing to participate in such projects. today, such a re-industrialisation vehicle for the 21st century could be electromobility. this development is already dynamic, but it requires more substantial support from our countries. today, only about 1.5% of cars in europe are electric. if we really want to reduce co2 emissions in our economy, we have to take a big step forward here. it's not science fiction that in 10 years, for example, about 25 or 30 percent of cars in the european union will be electric. and if we want all these technologies of the future to be able to develop, we must continue to build a capital markets union, capital markets especially for small and mediumsized enterprises. poland supports this market development. the economic growth generated by the smart adaptation of the european economy will strengthen confidence in the european project. i mentioned earlier that the second point should be the pillar of european security. the second pillar, the second part of this contract, has to be security. the recent years have been a period of exceptional growth of geopolitical threats, such as terrorism, russian hybrid war in ukraine and beyond, interference in the democratic process of western countries and even direct attacks on the citizens of the union. we all remember salisbury or the destabilization in syria. russia's aggression against ukraine has shaken the security architecture of central and eastern europe, but it was also part of a larger plan to destabilize the west. after all, a few years earlier, georgia had been the target of a similar attack. this clearly shows that russia's actions are not an accident, but part of a pre-planned strategy. the only fault of these countries was that they chose the european economic and political model. this shows that the security of the eastern european partnership is as much a matter for the union as the security of our southern neighbour. it is in our best interests to have peace and a stable development of our borders. the union must therefore respond by all means at its disposal. but our security is also about building our defense capability. and that equals our defense spending and our ability to maintain the transatlantic alliance. we have to take care of these relationships. our differences are natural, but we must remember that the strength of the west will always be our unity. disputes should be resolved in a spirit of partnership. after all, it was america that helped the western democracies win world war i and world war ii and stopped the soviet union from attacking western europe. the global imbalances that our american partners are talking about are a fact and we need to address them on a global level. in this context, i also welcome the creation of the european defence fund and the pesco programme as a whole, which will provide an additional supranational source of funding for investment in the defence industry. it's a way to strengthen our cooperation and develop new technologies. one of those challenges is cybersecurity. we know very well today that it plays a crucial role in the democratic process and that we can be vulnerable to attacks during elections and referendums. today, no country in the european union is safe from interference in its internal affairs. our citizens are not safe either, their bank accounts, and in fact their entire digital identity is constantly at risk of cyberattacks. we must take a collective effort to fight for cybersecurity. ladies and gentlemen! last week's european council also showed that the union is capable of being realistic and of rebuilding the confidence of its citizens who want safe and secure borders and the right to influence decisions on migration policy. the union is facing an influx of migrants and refugees from all directions, and only an intelligent and flexible approach to the migration challenge can restore a sense of security to european citizens. poland is the new home for over 1.5 million ukrainian citizens, including many who fled their homes because of russian aggression. they are not registered as refugees in our country, but only because our procedures make it much easier for them to get work permits and build their own and their families' prosperity, and they also support our economy and the economy of the european union. demographic pressures from outside, especially from africa and the middle east, will only increase. the european union must therefore commit itself to the stabilisation and development of these regions. today, a new marshall plan for africa is as necessary as the fight against the smuggling of people into europe. we support the creation of new funds for africa, like the european union emergency trust fund for africa, but we propose more. we propose the creation of a european development fund for africa and i declare that poland wants to participate in such aid - in giving such fish rather than fish - more than would result from the proportion of our gdp. and this is not just a statement. we did this in the context of our participation in the european resilience initiative, built by the european investment bank. the european union is the greatest achievement of post-war europe. the strategy for success in the next decades is a strategy for a renewed european contract, also in the fields of prosperity and security. so now a few words about the third point i have mentioned, namely a socially just union of citizens. we must not forget another fundamental principle on which our community is based: social justice. this principle is established as the main rule of polish policy by the states and this already in their initial articles both the polish constitution and the treaty on european union. these are not just empty words. there can be no development of our societies without a fight against inequalities, against exclusion, against poverty. it is also in order to combat these inequalities that it is so important that we have an ambitious social policy. what has been achieved in poland over the past two and a half years shows that a paradigm shift is possible and that the implementation of a tailor-made development strategy is producing excellent results today. today, poland has the lowest unemployment rate in history below 4% according to eurostat. last year, the national debt fell for the first time in 30 years. the budget deficit is shrinking, and at the same time we are pursuing the most ambitious social policy since the victory of solidarity and the fall of communism. at the same time, we are reducing red tape for entrepreneurs and citizens, we are reducing taxes, but only for small and medium-sized companies - not for the big ones - and we are rebuilding effective fiscal policy by fighting tax fraud mafias and by effectively sealing the fiscal system. we have also created the largest public innovation support system in central europe. so the new democratic capitalism in poland is innovation plus solidarity. globalisation, together with the progressive liberalisation of world trade, has become a driving force for economic growth and is certainly not to be condemned as a whole, but economic growth does not translate proportionally into an increase in middle-class incomes. so protectionism is not the answer. investing in human capital is the right instrument to fight inequalities. education is now the main determinant of future earnings. the need to invest in human capital is directly linked to the second challenge we face: automation and robotics. i don't want to advocate a new '21st century' populist approach to innovation, on the contrary, but the fear of technological unemployment is real and needs to be addressed. this technological progress will of course create a demand for new professions, but they will be different from those of the past. in almost all cases, these will require high skill levels. these require a proper level of education. moreover, as a result of robotization, the importance of capital as a means of production is immeasurably increasing compared to the importance of labor. as a result, capital income is even less evenly distributed than labour income. worldwide, wages as a share of gdp have fallen by 5 to 10% since the 1980s, sometimes more. as piketty shows, wealth is already concentrated, and as more investment is made, it will become more concentrated. so these digital technologies have led to a winner-takes-all distribution model. it's a system where fewer beneficiaries get a bigger share of the profits. the digital age, the platform economy has created an incredible potential for monopolization. the network effect has become the dominant factor, resulting in the emergence of global giants that have no competition. the need to tackle the growing inequalities in the european union is the strongest argument in the current debate on the european union budget. that is why i stress: we recognise the importance of new policies and challenges, but their funding should not be at the expense of cohesion policy, which is a fundamental, treaty-based policy and the essence of the european union. ladies and gentlemen! the polish example over the past two and a half years shows that the right strategy can change social and economic realities. the european union can once again become the symbol of the european dream. but this will only be possible if we make the right choices, if we overcome our differences and always remember that despite these differences, we also share a european identity. we have also recently heard important words in this parliament about european sovereignty. i did! europe should be a player in the world of global interest play. europe should be strong to better defend our interests. but european sovereignty cannot mean building the union at the expense of the strength of the member states, because the sovereign strength of europe comes from the strength of the member states. weak member states, nations that live with the feeling that their opinions and interests are not being taken into account, are a recipe for a union that no one cares about, that becomes a problem rather than a solution to our problems. poland will do everything to prevent such a scenario from occurring. european cooperation is an important dimension for all of us in building prosperity, solidarity and security. in the words of my great compatriot, john paul ii, you can find what happened at the beginning of a united europe. it was he who spoke of the two lungs of europe and that both lungs, the east and the west, are equally important for the old continent. ladies and gentlemen! the european union is still an open book. each of us has at least one page to write. the union is not a finished product. walter hallstein, the first head of the commission of the european economic community, in his 1963 speech entitled 'europe in the making', compared the community of that time to a living organism that is still developing and evolving. in this sense, we should not succumb to any form of determinism which would make us see only one future for the european union, forcing us to simply transfer competence from the national level to the creation of some superstate. the union is an international legal experiment which allows us to seek solutions that were not previously possible within the national states. discussion, cooperation, coordination and negotiation are the true dna of the european project. and it was on the basis of these rules that the founding fathers of the economic community, de gasperi, adenauer, schuman and jean monnet, laid the foundations. we should not therefore be engaging in a kind of genetic engineering that changes the very essence of the union, but should instead be constantly looking for new ways of working together to ensure the security and development of our countries and the well-being of our societies. european integration has never been an end in itself. it is supposed to bring peace, prosperity, development, democracy and justice to the peoples of europe. the european community is at a crossroads where it must once again listen to the voice of its citizens. in conclusion, i would like to stress that we must hear the concerns and understand the reasons for them in the voices of citizens, and hear the hope that these citizens in europe still have and from which they expect security, development, respect and solidarity. they want a europe open to its citizens, offering opportunities for all and solidarity with the weakest, united in the face of common threats and challenges, respecting the will of the peoples. the european parliament is the best institution to understand and express this voice of the citizens for the good of the free peoples of europe and for the good future of the european union. thank you very much. thank you. (laughter)
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, speaking on behalf of president juncker who cannot be here today, allow me to start by thanking prime minister morawiecki for taking part in today’s debate on the future of our union. it is an honour for me to be here. poland is a country with which i have a close affinity and i say this partly because i have some polish roots myself. my last name is, in fact, a latvian version of ‘dombrovski’, a name synonymous with your country, your history and even your national anthem, mr morawiecki. throughout my life and career i have always been full of admiration for poland and its people. as prime minister, i made it a point to deepen our partnership, which goes back long into history. people of my age in latvia, and right across the baltic sea region, grew up inspired by polish workers, students and intellectuals who had formed the solidarnosc movement to fight for change. it is thanks to these values, to this courage and to the determination of your people that poland took its rightful place at the heart of the european union. since then, poland has given so much to europe. since we are in this chamber, it is only right to mention bronisław geremek, a great polish patriot who worked tirelessly for european integration. he was both an architect of polish freedom and a builder of europe. i also think of marie skłodowska curie, who has lent her name to one of europe’s most successful programmes for young researchers. i could mention many more examples to show how poland has shaped our union, and this is why it is so important for europe to keep its solidarity pledge to poland. europe has shown its solidarity in many different ways. for instance, poland was allocated eur 86 billion in the current eu budget for european structural and investment funds – far more than any other country. this has helped to build, for example, 13 000 km of roads and allowed more than nine million people to gain access to high-speed internet. these investments are paying off. poland’s economy has gone from strength to strength. the polish success story is also built on the benefits of being part of the biggest single market in the world. every day, polish companies trade and work with businesses right across our union. since 2004, polish exports have tripled, with 80% of exports going to other eu countries. europe will keep supporting and showing solidarity in the future. in our proposals for the next long-term budget, poland will continue to receive the most cohesion funding, even though the total amount will be somewhat reduced, to eur 72.7 billion, which works out at eur 270 per person per year – more than double the eu average of eur 120. that investment will be focused in areas where there is the biggest potential for poland, whether it be innovation, small and medium-sized businesses or renewable energies. at the same time, europe must also continue to make good on its promise on security and prosperity. that is why we focusing our proposals for the new multinational financial framework on areas where we can achieve more together, and which are also crucial to poland’s future. for example, we want to spend 22 times as much on defence as we currently do, with eur 13 billion allocated to the european defence fund, for which poland has been a strong advocate. this strengthens our ability to act, avoids duplicate structures and saves taxpayers’ money. at the same time, we also want to invest in our future growth. we have proposed to increase our current investments in digitalisation and networks by a factor of nine, to eur 12 billion. we are also strengthening our currency by firmly anchoring the euro area in the eu budget. we are holding discussions with all eu member states, not just those which have already introduced the euro, on how best to strengthen our economic and monetary union. we are using new budgetary instruments to support all countries, including those member states on the road towards euro membership. this will be done in a fully inclusive and transparent way and i look forward to working with poland across all these areas. honourable members, as we look to our future, poland’s place should be firmly at the heart of our union. this was the choice made by almost 80% of poles in the referendum almost exactly 15 years ago. on that day the polish people made a free, clear and decisive choice. they chose peace and democracy and they chose the values and fundamental rights that define our union, as they define the people of your great country, mr morawiecki. at the heart of that lies respect for the rule of law. the law is our best tool to defend our freedoms, to work for social justice, to settle differences peacefully and to protect the most vulnerable in our societies. the justice system is a guarantor of our democracy and our fundamental rights. it is also what binds our union together. as walter hallstein used to say: ‘the european union is, at its heart, a community of law’. that community is the foundation of everything we have achieved and everything we still have to do together. this is why, if there is a systemic threat to the rule of law, we cannot simply turn a blind eye; we cannot simply say it is purely a national issue. so, where the separation of powers is weakened in one country, or where the independence of the judiciary is challenged in another, it becomes a european issue which affects our whole community. (applause)this is why, through the tireless work of frans timmermans, the commission has worked closely with the polish government to address the concerns on a number of new laws which pose a systemic threat to the rule of law. dialogue always comes first, and dialogue has shown that progress can be made. the prime minister and his government have shown willingness to amend the laws on a number of issues, for instance on the retirement age of judges. on behalf of the commission, i thank him for his effort and his cooperation. we always remain open to dialogue but, so far, it has not been enough. i hope that last week’s hearing will lead to further changes in polish legislation, and that we will not see 40% of the supreme court judges replaced. (applause) european will never turn its back on poland or on the polish people. the commission will always stand up to support them, and our hands will always be outstretched to the polish government. prime minister, the commission counts on your leadership to continue working with us and delivering the real changes needed. poland has shown how strong its leadership can be in our union and in the world. we will see this again in december, when katowice hosts the united nations climate conference – cop24 as it is known. it is more important than ever for europe to lead from the front in the fight against climate change. we are doing that by focusing on green and sustainable investment. through our capital markets union and sustainable financial action plan we want to unlock a systemic change in investment culture so that sustainability comes first. here again, poland has shown that there is a way. in 2016, poland became the first sovereign to issue a green sovereign bond. through this leadership and climate diplomacy, poland is helping to send a message that the paris agreement is here to stay, and that europe is here to lead. katowice is itself an example of that: it is a region historically reliant on coal and heavy industry, which is turning itself into a leader in innovation, sustainable investment and new technologies. i can think of no better priority for the future of our union than the health of our planet and the health of our economies. poland must be at the heart of these efforts and must stay at the heart of our future. as marie skłodowska curie said, ‘nothing in life is to be feared, it is only to be understood.’ now it is time to understand more, so we may fear less. this applies as much today as ever: it applies to poland, europe and our common future. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to say to the prime minister that europe is always about dialogue and that is why it is good to have him here to discuss the future of europe with poland. it was absolutely not europe that brought democracy to poland, but it was poland that brought democracy to europe with the first modern codified constitution in europe in 1791. the principle of the separation of powers was included in this first constitution. for these principles the polish people stood really strong, even in dark times: the second world war and during the oppression by the soviet union. john paul ii said in warsaw, when standing in victory square in 1979, that there could be no just europe without the independence of a democratic poland marked on the map. more than 10 million people – a quarter of the population of poland – were members of solidarnosc. together with lech wałęsa, they fought for freedom and democracy and they laid all the groundwork for a free and open, unified and democratic europe. that is why we believe in a poland that is based on the ideas of lech wałęsa and john paul ii. we admire what they did for poland and for europe. (applause)but today, prime minister, there are so many questions on the table from people all over europe, and in your country where yesterday there were demonstrations on the streets. there are so many questions on the table: for example, the question why is state tv in poland today more a propaganda tv and not a free, independent media anymore? why does your government dismiss churches because of their political opinion? you referred to walter hallstein. he would be very surprised to see that today nobody knows whether the president of the supreme court of poland is still in office or not. we have uncertainty there. nobody knows exactly what the situation is today. why did another member state have to refer to the european court of justice on a court case, fearing that polish citizens do not enjoy the right to a free and fair trial in your country? why is this happening and why do peaceful protesters, like władysław frasyniuk, face imprisonment for carrying roses, while nationalists who attack peaceful protesters are not even facing trial? those are the questions on the table. (applause) i think you missed an opportunity today to clarify these questions. europe is together here. you missed an opportunity today to clarify these questions. the founder of the free and democratic poland, lech wałęsa, said recently that in the 1980s there was no freedom without solidarity and today, he said, there is no freedom without the rule of law. the rule of law is in the very roots of poland and in the hearts of the polish people. europe will not turn its back on the polish people. if the polish government does not preserve the great polish achievements, europe will do so. there is another poland. there is a poland of the demonstrators, the people in poland who went out onto the streets. there is a poland which welcomes 18 million tourists, who enjoy the freedom of movement, tourists who admire poland and the culture of your great country. there is a poland which welcomes 4 000 nato soldiers with the idea of protecting our european union together. there is another poland, and sometimes i wonder myself whether you speak here as a pis government or whether you speak here as a polish prime minister? do you really have this second poland in mind? i also want to welcome some of these ngos here on the tribune. they were invited by michał boni, so my thanks to him for that. having all this in mind, you talk about sovereignty. i want to ask you whether, when we talk about sovereignty and winning back sovereignty, is then the anti—eu atmosphere which has been created in poland – in a way saying that brussels is the new moscow – is this really creating an atmosphere of sovereignty for poland? when you talk about the content, and i completely agree with a few of the things – a marshall plan for africa, and so on – and when you talk, for example, about taxation and about the initiatives you want to take on this, do you really think that your approach of an eu of the nations is really something which can work? when you have the unanimous vote in the taxation field in mind, we see that in the council a lot of initiatives – good initiatives – are blocked because there is always one single member state blocking everything, on taxation and so on. do you really think that such a europe will work? i tell you that when you talk about the eu of 4.0, a new europe, which listens to the citizens, there is already a europe which is listening to the citizens and that is this chamber, the european parliament. we represent the citizens of the european union. (applause) we don’t need another europe. i think our europe is already working very well. yesterday, the bulgarian presidency was present here. boyko borissov, a colleague of yours, was present and gave us an overview of what we have achieved together in the last six months in the interests of the citizens of the european union. again, in the council meetings last week, we experienced that the nation states can no longer find a common ground to go further. that is why i strongly believe that the european union, which was founded by adenauer – you referred to this – and which is based on the institutions at european level, this europe works, and the europe of egoism and nationalism cannot deliver in the interests of the people of the european union. (applause) let me say a final word. i want to conclude with a personal remark. prime minister, because of your pis governmental propaganda, i never took the floor here in this house when we spoke about poland, because i was afraid that my german background could be misused to attack my friends in poland and others who are fighting there for the rule of law and freedom; that it could be used as, ‘the germans are telling us’. we have sometimes experienced this in poland: ‘the germans are telling us’. i was afraid to take the floor here, and i want to tell you that i am not speaking here as a german member of the european parliament. i am speaking here because 219 colleagues voted for me as group leader of this group. i want to fight for the interests of the citizens of the european union. that is what we have to do, not to decide between good and bad europeans. let’s discuss the future of this continent. let’s stick together. let’s not be divided anymore. that would be a great message if we were to hear this from a polish prime minister. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to start by saying to the prime minister, welcome to the european parliament. mr prime minister, you said that we started from different places in recent european history. yes, this is true. you quoted pope jean paul ii: ‘the eastern lung, the western lung’. yes, i can very much identify with this picture. i would add that we are still one body and we need both the eastern part and the western part. but the question on the table today is: what is the polish contribution to the eastern lung functioning well? today, the president of the constitutional court in poland, judge małgorzata gersdorf, went back to work. i sent her the greetings of the european parliament and i sent her the greetings of europe, because she is obviously paying tribute to the polish constitution. (applause)she is obviously full of this democratic enlightenment you were talking about. today, as yesterday, people in warsaw have massively taken to the streets to express their right to freedom. they are obviously full of this freedom gene you were talking about. this is important. we want to see a healthy poland contributing to this eastern lung, and we are waiting for you to give answers to the questions expressed by colleagues, expressed by the commission, expressed especially by our friend frans timmermans, whom we fully support. on a lot of issues you rightly raised questions where we can fully agree – the future of europe; questions on industrial politics, on the future of cohesion, talking about cultural diversity, security politics, energy security – and rightly so. but why is it necessary to raise these questions and at the same time undermine the european values on which our new project of the european union is based? you cannot do that at the same time as raising questions on the future and appealing to the unity of the west, which is a values-based unity, and at the same time hope that we can collaborate in the best interests of our citizens. no. poland has to come back to the centre of the european union and you have to contribute to our values and to their development in the best interests of our citizens. herr premierminister! lassen sie mich dennoch auch an dieser stelle etwas sagen als jemand, der ein deutscher sozialdemokrat ist. wie der kollege weber bin ich gewählt von den freundinnen und freunden hier in meiner sozialdemokratischen fraktion als der sprecher dieser sozialdemokratischen fraktion, als der vorsitzende. sie haben keine vorstellung davon, wie dicht die zukunft der polnischen gesellschaft, wie dicht die zukunft der bürgerinnen und bürger polens nicht nur uns deutschen sozialdemokraten, sondern allen kolleginnen und kollegen in meiner fraktion am herzen liegt – den polnischen freunden, den deutschen freunden, aber auch allen anderen aus meiner delegation. wir wollen polen in der mitte europas haben! wir wollen, dass sie ihren beitrag leisten, aber zerstören sie nicht die demokratische kultur in ihrem land, und kommen sie zurück an den tisch, um unsere werte gemeinsam weiterzuentwickeln: die rechte der frau, die rechte der minderheiten, die rechte der menschen in ihrer gesellschaft! dann werden wir sie willkommen heißen als jemanden, der uns hilft, die zukunft zu bauen. (beifall)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister for joining in this debate on the future of europe. i want to stress that the verts/ale group and i share the criticism on the rule of law that you have heard from almost all the groups. you can see that parliament is pretty united on that issue and i don’t think it’s going to change. you might say you do not care what other people think about you. but i think you should care. it has been mentioned by the commissioner already how important poland is in europe, and also how important europe is for poland, poland being one of the biggest member states in the eu. polish people have a very positive image of the eu and actually trust european institutions more than they trust the polish government. the eu contribution to poland’s economy, in terms of many euros going every year to farmers, organisations and businesses, has been mentioned. many polish citizens work elsewhere in the european union. in fact, poland has actually the highest number of migrants to other eu countries. you mentioned brexit, prime minister, which will hit poland hard, and you mentioned russia. that’s why you should care. but also, we care. the whole of europe has much to thank poland for. poland was the first country on our continent with a modern constitution. you practically invented the division of powers, and that is actually then a polish tradition – the separation of powers. poland also has a long tradition of civil movements for freedom and democracy, from resistance against the german occupation to the solidarnosc movement, which was the first opposition movement to participate in free elections in a soviet-bloc nation since the 1940s. that is a tradition to be proud of. it gave hope to so many people all over europe. poland could be a shining example of democracy and the rule of law, but your government, prime minister, is taking poland away from the path of democracy and civil rights. you undermine the independence of courts, you put judges into retirement, you put judges under increasing political pressure, and you put people into prison who you think are not following your ideas. you try to control political discourse and threaten the freedom of the media. the rule of law and democracy are crucial for the future of poland and they are also crucial for the future of europe. they are at the very heart of our union. therefore, as the european union all together, we have to respond clearly and strongly to what is happening in poland. we greens fully support the article 7 procedure and we are also very grateful to the commission for starting an infringement procedure in order to stop the supreme court act. people wanted to join the eu, and still want to be part of it, because they believe in the rule of law. they believe in democracy. they believe in good governance. people in poland are protesting against the dismissal of judges; they are standing up for women’s rights. there are people marching against corruption in europe. they carry the blue flag of the european union because they believe that the european union is the body that can help and support them, the body that will stand up for them. we are proud of the people taking to the streets to stand up for their rights, their democracy and their rule of law. those people are poland too. furthermore, they are europe too. we need to support them because the rule of law and democracy really is the cornerstone of the european promise in poland, as elsewhere in europe, and it is something that we, as meps, have to deliver on. it is the promise of the eu and we have to deliver on that. that is why we, as greens, and also we in the whole parliament, will never give up on these issues – especially since you keep adding new ones, like changing the law for the european parliament elections, making it practically impossible for any smaller parties to enter the european union. the future of europe really is in your hands, too, as is the future of the planet, in katowice: unfortunately you did not even mention in your speech the very important conference taking place there. you could actually bring something to that, namely the idea that the transition for climate protection also needs to be fair, that social rights need to be protected as well. why don’t you bring that to the table? then you could really be a forerunner on climate change, aiming to protect all of our planet, in katowice and beyond. you would even find allies in this house. on many issues, such as brexit, the rights of polish workers abroad, even nord stream, and social cohesion, you would find many allies. but if you want cooperation, prime minister, then you have to stick to the basic rules of this community, a community that so many of your compatriots have worked so hard to build and to join: and that means the rule of law and democracy. you will have to deliver on that.
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. we together with the poles, greeks, french and others have the task of making life fairer, safer and better collectively and not intergovernmentally. the question i have to ask you is therefore: how do you intend to strengthen the community method and not the corresponding bargaining with national egoisms in the council? i have also listened attentively to your ideas about an eu 4.0. the question remains: if there is no binding commitment to common values and objectives, solidarity in europe will be lost. i was expecting you to announce today that you would finally withdraw poland's opt-out from the charter of fundamental rights. i had expected poland to finally recognise this charter of fundamental rights of the european union. we can grow with it, overcome social divisions in societies, housing shortages, but above all, hatred against those who think and live differently, against asylum seekers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let us not forget that!
mr president, prime minister morawiecki and minister szymański must be feeling like they have been thrown into a lion’s pit this morning. we were supposed to discuss the future of europe here and instead we have had only more or less hysterical reactions against their government. president tajani did say europe must change and if he had listened today to the presentation of this prime minister he would have seen what kind of change we need. we don’t need more europe, we need more member states and i would like to congratulate you, mr prime minister, for that courage. i think what we do need indeed is a europe of sovereign nations and i think the idea of a europe of sovereign nations 2.0 is exactly what charles de gaulle wanted, and after brexit we have only one country in europe which has this kind of common sense in the government, and that is yours, mr prime minister, and i thank you for it. (applause)
mr president, i would say to the prime minister that we seem to have some common positions. i support your position on nord stream2 and on russia in general, on european security and defence, and your claim to engage more in africa. i supported the solidarity movement in the ‘80s, when the polish communists denounced us as zgniły zachód – ‘the rotten west’. today when i read a translation of programmes on your public tv and radio, i’m getting the impression that we are already close to zgniły zachód again when we insist on the rule of law and the separation of powers, when respect for your own constitution is demanded. i wonder, can you explain to me how a simple law can overrule an explicit provision in the constitution with regard to the duration of the mandate of a judge in the supreme court? on the future of poland and europe, state capture by a single party is not the future. are you aware that the traumatised angry old men whom your government has faithfully followed to the 21st from the 19th century have a mindset that is far closer to that of vladimir putin than that of any modern european leader? should that be the future, turn round and .... (the president cut off the speaker).
rapporteur. – madam president, after almost 40 years of direct elections to the european parliament, today this is the first chance for this house to improve the conditions for participating in these elections. we are improving the conditions for millions of people by introducing a postal vote and by introducing the right to vote in a third country on election day. i might remind you that in switzerland alone there are 1.4 million eu citizens who probably don’t go home to vote on election day. and there are many more provisions for more transparency and more democracy. this proposal requires a special legislative procedure: we needed unanimity in the council – and you know how difficult it is to get unanimity in the council – and today we need an absolute majority in this house. with my co-rapporteur, danuta hübner, after three years of hard work and negotiations, we got 28 member states to reach consensus on this reform package. i would ask you not to miss the opportunity. we will have to wait a very long time to go back to this proposal again. please use this opportunity to have a more open, more inclusive and fairer system for european elections. (applause)
president of the republic of angola. your excellency, mr antonio tajani, president of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour for me to address the distinguished members of this parliament, one of the most respected forums for the promotion of democracy and the fundamental rights of citizens in europe and the world. i am grateful for the warm welcome i have received and for the delegation that has accompanied me since our arrival in strasbourg, which is an expression of the good relations of cooperation between angola and all the structures of the european union. i would like to take this unique opportunity to express my desire for a permanent and frank dialogue with the european parliament, based on mutual respect, so that our cooperation in all areas of common interest may be strengthened. in the same spirit, during my recent official visit to belgium, i had the opportunity to discuss with the president of the european council and the head of european diplomacy certain situations of concern to our two continents. as you know, some of the problems facing africa have direct repercussions in europe and therefore deserve the careful attention of the leaders of the countries and organizations of both continents. your excellency, ladies and gentlemen, angola has been in a state of armed conflict for decades, which has led to the deaths of thousands of people and the almost complete destruction of its infrastructure, a situation which was not to end until the peace agreements were signed on 4 april 2002. the achievement of peace and national reconciliation has enabled a vast campaign of construction and reconstruction to be launched and a new stage of reforms in all areas of political, economic and social life to be launched, with visible gains in the lives of citizens. although this process was severely affected by the international financial and economic crisis and the fall in the price of oil on the international market, this did not prevent the normal functioning of democratic institutions, the exercise of justice and the assertion of the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens from being ensured. today, when the country is experiencing a natural phase of political transition, the angolan executive remains committed to deepening the democratic process and improving the conditions that allow an environment favourable to diversity of opinion, freedom of expression and, in general, respect for the fundamental rights of citizens. since 2008, the republic of angola has held periodic, free, fair and transparent elections, attended by different parties and coalitions of parties, with a view to legitimizing power, electing the president of the republic, the deputies to the national assembly and the formation of the executive of the government. we have a unicameral national assembly, with a total of 220 deputies distributed among four political parties and a coalition of parties, according to the results of the august 2017 elections. your excellency, ladies and gentlemen, before my inauguration as president of the republic on 26 september 2017, i have sought to implement policies that directly benefit the populations, in concert with all political and social actors of the nation. the executive i lead has focused its attention on implementing macroeconomic stabilisation and fiscal consolidation programmes with a view to reducing the effects of inflation and normalising the foreign exchange market. although the weight of the oil sector in the national economy is decreasing, this is not enough to overcome the existing imbalances and is not yet reflected in the diversification of the economy and a structural change in exports and state revenues. in recent years, a great effort has been made to rebuild the country, with considerable resources invested in infrastructure and social works, but insufficient to meet the needs of businesses and the population in terms of energy, water, schools and hospitals, for example. we therefore count on the european union as an important partner who can help us overcome the constraints we still face in order to put the angolan economy at the service of development, progress and the well-being of its people. ladies and gentlemen, in the framework of moralizing society, creating a better business environment and paying more attention to private foreign investment, we have carried out a real crusade against corruption and impunity throughout society, with a focus on the so-called 'white collar crimes', whose positive results we ensure that we will soon begin to feel and benefit from. in parallel, a number of other measures are being adopted, such as the recent approval by the angolan parliament of the new competition law, which aims to prevent and sanction the actions of economic operators who do not comply with the competition rules; the approval of the private investment law which has become more attractive to the investor in general and, in particular, to the foreign investor. where possible, billions of dollars worth of contracts for the construction and management of important public infrastructure, such as the barra do dande port, have been cancelled because the most basic principles of transparency and competition have not been respected. a public tender was opened for new mobile telephone licences and the privatisation of part of the capital of angola telecom. studies are under way for the privatisation by open tender or by public auction of some public companies in different sectors, including oil. the new model for the marketing of diamonds was approved by the council of ministers a few days ago, and it eliminates the so-called preferential customers, in other words the privileged ones, who had a monopoly on the business to the detriment of the producing companies and even the dealer, endiama. we believe that with this measure we will soon see the return of the big multinational companies in the sector, both those producing and those trading and cutting diamonds. in the same context of moralizing society, combating corruption and impunity, criminal proceedings are ongoing in the competent judicial bodies against those citizens who have allegedly harmed the state by hundreds of millions of us dollars. let's wait for the outcome. the law on the repatriation of capital was also approved, which aims to make the voluntary repatriation by its holders of the vast financial resources, real fortunes, that a small group of angolan citizens hold in tax havens or other banks around the world. it was our intention to give them the possibility to bring these resources voluntarily into the country and with them to invest in our economy, create wealth, create jobs, thus contributing to the strengthening of the national economy. this window will be open for a period of exactly six months, which expires at the end of this year, at the end of which the state will have the freedom and legitimacy to use all the legal instruments at its disposal not only to locate and recover all these resources that belong to the angolan people but also to bring those responsible to justice. we have signed bilateral agreements to exempt ordinary passports from visas and, in general, measures have been taken to facilitate and speed up the visa granting process for almost all countries, for investors, tourists or simply citizens who want to visit angola for other reasons. they believe that angola has become, in recent months, a country more open to the world and therefore more friendly to investment, more open to tourism. angola is open to foreign private investment in virtually all sectors of the economy, agriculture and livestock, fisheries, hotel and tourism, manufacturing and construction materials, refining and distribution of petroleum and natural gas products, construction and operation of road, rail and port infrastructure, as well as the production, distribution and management of electricity and water. ladies and gentlemen, with a view to solving the main social problems of citizens, such as access to drinking water, electricity, solid waste collection and treatment, public transport, schooling, primary health care and others, which is only possible in the framework of a government that is increasingly closer to the citizen, through bodies elected by him, the first municipal elections are being prepared for 2020, to be held gradually, in order to gradually endow the various municipalities with financial, patrimonial and administrative autonomy. your excellency, ladies and gentlemen, africa is currently experiencing internal conflicts, insecurity, economic and financial crises, terrorism, hunger and poverty, and consequently, it is experiencing successive waves of emigration to the nearest continent, the european continent. this is a situation that embarrasses us all. it is sad and shocking that some six centuries after the children of africa were taken in degrading conditions on slave ships to the americas where, as slaves, they contributed to the flourishing of large economies, the saga is repeated today, albeit in a different context. the children of africa are now coming to europe as immigrants, some would say voluntarily, which is debatable. to be frank, they are fleeing armed conflict, hunger and poverty that plague some of our countries. they are fleeing unemployment and the lack of prospects for a better future. we are all responsible for this picture that many african countries are facing. it is in this spirit that we call on the european union to establish a model of cooperation with our continent which, in the medium and long term, can help to reverse the current situation, helping our countries to move from being mere exporters of raw materials to producers of manufactured, industrialized products, as a guarantee of greater employment and business opportunities for our citizens. we believe that this will be in the interest of all, that africa and europe have nothing to gain but from an africa which is able to keep its children on the continent, through a greater supply of employment and better living conditions in general. it is not a dream, but something that can become a reality if we always discuss it as equals, without any complexes, with realism and pragmatism. ladies and gentlemen, as the president-in-office of the sadec political, defence and security cooperation body, we have been working on initiatives to support the efforts of sadec, siac and icglr to find a peaceful solution to the problems affecting some countries in the region, notably the drc, the central african republic, south sudan, lesotho and, most recently, madagascar. we work together with the subregional organisations mentioned above and also with the african union and the united nations, always respecting the national sovereignty of each state as well as the norms of international law. as regards cooperation between the european union and the african continent, we held the fifth summit last year, at which we discussed issues of peace and security, good governance, democracy, human rights, migration and citizens' mobility, investment and trade, capacity building and job creation. it is a common african position that the model of cooperation established in the framework of the cotonou agreements between the european union and the african, caribbean and pacific group of states needs to be changed. i would like to conclude by thanking you once again for your hospitality, your warm welcome and your attention.
the meeting is resumed. mr lamberts, you have come to the rules of procedure.
i would like to thank mr lamberts. i recommend you take a look at the 2019 budget vote. the bureau has not decided anything other than what the plenary has decided or which motions have been rejected. (applause from the centre)
we shall now proceed to the voting.
mr dartmouth, i have to ask you a question. i have a problem with people coming forward to discuss the rules of procedure, who have been a thorn in my side for a long time. i spoke to the president this week. the president will write to the rapporteur, mr corbett, who is dealing with the rules of procedure again. he promised me. we will shortly try to address this persistent problem, which is also a nuisance to many. before the final vote:
rapporteur. – mr president, for the same reason as with the two dossiers before; the outcome is totally contradictory, therefore i would like to ask for it to be referred back to the transport committee.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the first vote on the first moraes report had 'amendments nos 1 and 2' on our voting machines at the time of the vote, although it was obviously the final vote. i would therefore ask that the final vote be repeated because the display on the machines was not correct.
i am not going to go into that. i have indeed called for motions 1 and 2 to be put to the vote. and then i called a roll call. so there's no way that there could have been a 1 and a 2. and that was the final vote, mrs reda. and if you've done it wrong -- it happens to all of us -- then correct your vote afterwards.
the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. without crossborder freight transport, no european company can compete globally. cabotage is the transport of goods from one eu member state to another. three trips in seven days are allowed. the scheme must be maintained in order to protect domestic suppliers from social dumping. the posting directive must be applied, as must the payment of the minimum wage. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not distorted. the safety of passengers is paramount in tourist bus transport. for driving and rest periods, it shall be possible to flexibly arrange the 45-minute rest period, to split the daily rest period into periods. i am against an extended driving period of 12 consecutive days, during which there is no rest day for bus drivers. it is in the interest of all citizens that drivers are not tired and that road safety remains. we voted against negative changes in driving and rest periods in the employment committee. it was so controversial, mr president, i'm glad the reports are being referred back to committee.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. commissioner moscovici said: 'politics is not about telling the truth, and that is why i would like to put an end to this unspeakable embellishment which has emerged here from both the words of the commissioner and those of the president of the eurogroup. as far as this programme is concerned, it was a big failure. we have driven greece into an economic disaster. we have to say very clearly that the debt level of greece, measured by the debt ratio, was about 140% in 2010. then greece got a huge debt relief of 107 billion euros, far greater than the argentine default, far greater than any default before. and today the debt level is higher at 180%! income in greece has fallen by almost 25%. for years the greeks have been giving up 25% of their income - not voluntarily, as the word 'giving up' suggests, but forced by the adjustment measures we have imposed on them. the government revenue in greece has not increased. the entire adjustment of the government deficit has been concentrated on the expenditure side only, because everything possible has been reduced in government expenditure. but the greek budget has not succeeded in generating more revenue! the non-performing loans in greek banks have increased. the greek banks are shaky and unstable. the whole greek economic system is based on a good cyclical situation at the moment. that is why we have a meagre growth of 1.4%, while the greek neighbours bulgaria, romania and turkey can expect real growth of 4% or 7%. greece is in the red, even in terms of export growth. all the neighbouring countries are growing more than greece in terms of their exports. greece is currently benefiting from a certain economic tailwind, but that is all! the moment the economy collapses, the moment we have another recession, greece will be in the crisis that we just couldn't save it from, that there is no way out of as long as greece has to stay in the euro.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. on 22 june 2018, the eurogroup set the course for the end of the third adjustment programme. this brings to an end a process which began eight years ago, and, mr gualtieri, at that time a party called pasok, which is associated with them, was in power, and this is just a marginal remark. and we've had this grant program for eight years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. firstly, the whole thing will only pay off if greece maintains and continues to pursue the path of fiscal rationality and focus on competitiveness. secondly, there are still major problems in the banking sector. a very strong indicator of this is the fact that there are still capital controls. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the restructuring of the greek economy. we were informed during our visit last week that more than 50% of this capital has still not returned to greece. this, of course, continues to weaken the deposit base of banks. the commission notes that the greek authorities have not provided any evidence that the bank of greece has been able to restore its long-term viability. the ecb's favourable interest rate is simply not attractive to greek companies. even well-established, solvent companies - as i was able to see on the ground - still get loans at around 5% interest rates, which is much higher than the average for the european union and the euro area. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any evidence that the bank of greece has been able to achieve its objective of maintaining a stable and stable banking system.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i have been in athens this past week to see for myself the state of the country's economy. my initial optimism has been replaced by a sober scepticism after discussions with representatives of the government and parliament. how can a country be considered saved and rehabilitated when at the beginning of the crisis its debt was 110% of gdp and at the end, after the so-called rehabilitation, 180%? the government expects the economy to develop positively in the coming years. this preview is based on assumptions that are very, very positive, unrealistic in my opinion. a very high primary surplus is expected to restore confidence in the country's debt-carrying capacity. the rating agencies continue to give greece only the status of a lamb. moreover, the government believes that the environment remains positive, that interest rates remain low and that it can successfully implement measures in the sector of pension cuts - unfortunately - and taxation, all at a time when elections are coming up again. we know from experience that in these times it is very difficult to implement measures. i believe, unlike commissioner moscovici, that the greek government will very soon be knocking on the door of the eu again to get new bailout measures, especially when the 15 billion euros in cash it has now received from the bailout programme has been spent. conclusion: we urgently need an insolvency regime for the euro area countries.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. hallelujah, you are a great man. greece is saved! there it is again. and really the last time. i promise you. the reality cannot be ignored by the kind of candles in the mist that commissioner moscovici has announced here. greece is over-indebted at 180% of its gross domestic product. greece's banks still have a huge mountain of nonperforming loans. what is being sold here as success is simply ridiculous! we have said from the beginning that we do not want bailouts because they create the wrong incentives, because we do not want germany and the commission to rule europe with a stick and a sugar. the european union is not a mere institution, but a political entity. eight years of crisis and not a whiff of progress for a state-insolvency regime. this will pay off. because the eurozone is broken. anyone who knows anything about monetary policy knows that! anyone who can read bank statements can. that's why i'm telling you, don't celebrate. as soon as the euro crisis comes again - and it will - we will be discussing greece again. and as the end of the euro approaches, you will think, but not say: those of the alternative for germany were right then.
i have to say, madam president, yesterday , something remarkable happened . the ecr group's spokeswoman, ulrike trebesius, has said that jean-claude juncker is standing up for a united states of europe. the commission has been very active in this area, and i am sure that it will continue to do so. what is juncker advocating? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this means more power for the commission, more centralisation and bureaucratisation. the responsible monetary commissioners, pierre moscovici and valdis dombrovskis, are simply reading what their officials have written to them! and it is on such people, without any expertise, that the well-being of the citizens of europe depends. i still feel like i'm in a fairy tale class. how many times have we been told that greece was finally rescued, and then a new loan package had to be put in place. i am more sympathetic to verhofstadt's united states of europe than to the europe of incompetent commissioners. the united states of europe is a place where citizens can vote out governments and politicians, whereas juncker's europe is a place where citizens are voted out.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. firstly, the left supports the struggle of interpreters here in the european parliament. but now to the main issue: the aid programmes for greece are coming to an end, and that is good news for europe and for the greek people, because they look back on eight years of hardship and painful cuts. but of the 274 billion euros in aid loans granted to greece, 95% went directly to debt service - that is to say 260 billion euros, transferred directly by the greek state, and mainly to german and french banks. the greek bailout is really a rescue programme for the crisis-ridden financial sector, and before these so-called aid programmes started, greece's public debt stood at 120%, today - also because of the brutal austerity and cutbacks programmes - unfortunately at 180%. and the greek people paid for the bailout of the banks. the pensions have been cut by 60% and wages by 25% over the last eight years under pressure from the troika. the austerity policies of the troika and the german government have left a largely destroyed welfare state and a still weakening economy, while greece has been forced to privatise public property. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we on the left will continue to fight for social progress and public investment in the eu.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. if a minister of a european member state calls for the inclusion of an ethnic minority, he either has no knowledge of the history of national socialism in europe or has a nationalist and racist attitude. both disqualify a european and also a minister of a democratic state governed by the rule of law. ethnic census has a cruel past, as every school child learns in history class. the commission has already made it quite clear, ten years ago, that a database of roma in italy is against fundamental rights and cannot be accepted. mr salvini, i am speaking directly to you, you are criminalising an entire european minority with your demand and are deliberately inciting hatred and racism. your demand is in violation of national and international law. i would like to ask you, mr salvini, to put the ukrainian situation in italy on the agenda. in ukraine, pogroms against roma took place that year, claiming many injured, including women and children. dávid papp, a 24-year-old roma, was murdered by ukrainian nazis on june 23, 2018. mr. salvini, i ask you, do you want blood on your fingers too? because your racist comments lead to exactly that: hatred of citizens who are people of romani background. mr salvini, you have attacked me personally. i, romeo franz, am a sinto and the son of a holocaust survivor. i am here to tell you that racism and national ideology have no place in europe. because we've been there before. and we all know, ladies and gentlemen, what the consequences of such incitement can be. mr salvini, your racism blinds you and your followers to the point that you do not see the potential of your italian minority and do not even use it! you're not doing your country any service. ladies and gentlemen, we must not allow the racists to weaken the rule of law and democracy in our country, in our europe. we must uphold human rights and humanity as the foundations of a peaceful europe!
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you very much to my predecessor. and the most important thing first: it is not enough for prime minister conte to lash out against his minister of the interior, who is using fascist strategies to promote racism within italy. what we are asking for is salvini's resignation. i think that's worth saying. racist agitators do not belong in any political office, not even in italy. the registration of roma is pure racism, because people are then differentiated by blood and race. we know from the history of the 20th century: the census of roma in the hitler empire, as well as of jews, was the starting point of the practice of the so-called racial shame, of racial laws, exclusion, devaluation, expulsion, extermination. the holocaust of both minorities required the exclusion of others, the devaluation. in nazi germany, schoolboards depicted jews and gypsies as worthless and useless, the lowest category of all living things. every animal, every insect was more important than these two minorities. that was the third reich, and we must never return to that spirit.
untruths do not become more true by repetition. i have a word from soraya post. but let us return to the rules of procedure. (loud interjections) i have to go.
thank you, mrs post. i'm going to... please be quiet. i will report to the president on your request and we will then consult in the appropriate committees.
thank you. thank you. i now call mr maullu. (loud shouting in italian without a microphone) please be quiet! (continued shouting in italian without a microphone.) mr. borghezio, i beg you, please stop! (continued shouting in italian without a microphone.) i am not going to go into detail. i have just given mr maullu the floor for two minutes. he has the floor and no one else.
victor hugo, as far as i know, always spoke respectfully to all people.
i have a... (loud shouting in italian without a microphone.) mrs. gardini, please sit down. i have a point of order from mrs kyenge. but i really do want to talk about the rules of procedure.
thank you, mrs kyenge. i'll pass along your request.
we have had a very lively debate here in the european parliament, madam commissioner. i think it has also become clear that a majority in this parliament is also in favour of the rule of law, which we have enshrined in the treaties of the european union.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the joint debate on the report of kinga gál, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european travel information and authorisation system (etias) and amending regulations (eu) no 515/2014, (eu) 2016/399, (eu) 2016/794 and (eu) 2016/1624 (com ((2016) 0731 - c8-0466/2016 - 2016/0357a(cod)) (a8-0322/2017) and the report of kinga gál, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eu) 2016/794 for the purpose of establishing a european travel information and authorisation system (etias) (nas508-0050 - c7-0307/2017 - c8-0357/2017 (cod)) (a8-0237/2017).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it is not only since the european council last weekend that the alleged protection of the eu's external borders has been used for symbolism and farce. the etias system is a symbol policy that is dangerous, expensive and ineffective. etias enters a visa through the back door. and the applicants have to give even more data than others for a visa application! etias is expensive: even the commission assumes development costs of eur 212 million and annual costs of eur 80 million. the money is missing from proper police work and from border guards. etias is dangerous: the decision as to whether someone is a risk is often left to an algorithm that is completely unclear and unspecified. this is automatic discrimination and contradicts our report on big data and fundamental rights, which this house adopted by a large majority a year ago. and finally, etias is not working. a check against databases such as the schengen information system is already being carried out at the time of entry. the added value of etias is the additional data that is now to be evaluated. but these come from travelers themselves, who are happy to tell the untruth. we greens will not tolerate such an expensive, ineffective and dangerous symbolism. therefore, we reject the etias.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank mr viotti for a competent draft, for a preliminary work which reflects parliament's priorities. and i can tell you that almost all the priorities of your report, mr viotti, and therefore of parliament, coincide with what the commission wants to achieve politically with the 2019 budget. it is the sixth budget, the second to last in the financial framework period and the last to be adopted by this house in november, before your european elections. there are annual worries. we, the commission, will be presenting to you in a few days' time how commitment to payments will be made and how we will do everything we can to ensure that we do not repeat or even exceed in a negative way a similar development in 2012, 2013, 2014. we are here to report on the progress made in the last few days. secondly, we as the commission want to support you, we want to do everything to ensure that the 2019 budget is also adopted before the end of 2018, in november this year. it would be a clear sign of european ability to act in difficult times and of a sense of responsibility if everyone, the council, parliament and the commission, were to take responsibility and make an agreement possible by being willing to compromise. we fully support the efforts of parliament and of you, mr viotti, to avoid cuts under heading 1a: erasmus+ or erasmuspro, cosme for smes and start-ups, the connecting europe facility and above all our research and innovation programme horizon 2020. we cannot talk about the future in sunday speeches, trying to compete with silicon valley and china, and then cutting back exactly where it is easiest budgetarily, but politically the stupidest. of course, under heading 2 and under heading 1b, what is paid out and what is done with commitments is fixed. but then heading 1a must not be the suffering pillar of the european budget. that is why you have me and we can show how many applications for horizon europe we receive, are cut, are rejected on your side. there would be far more added value from european research projects if the budgetary framework could be maintained and cuts avoided. we will have to discuss the turkey-eu facility in depth. you will recall that a large number of member states first demanded that we finance the second tranche of three billion euros in full through the reshuffle. now, with a billion fresh money, we have at least achieved a certain relief in the margins in our budget towards the end of 2020, everything else remains to be negotiated and answered by the trilog. a completely new development, which i can only briefly touch on today, concerns the establishment of frontex, the strengthening of european border control. we will be answering your questions in a few days' time as to whether the figure of 10 000 is realistic, and if so, when and with what steps, what it means for training, what can be achieved through appropriations and what it can mean in terms of salaries and investments in cash in the financial years 2019 - perhaps as early as 2018 - and 2020 in anticipation of the next financial framework. we are also interested in finding a good solution to the problem of youth unemployment, because what is at stake here is what the member states can absorb, what the member states can put into projects and what resources can be mobilised within the budget to reduce youth unemployment so that we can support this priority of parliament. mr viotti was right: the issue of immigration, the issue of the number of refugees, has become a matter of relative importance. nevertheless, we want to have funds for the next financial year to provide effective support to the main affected member states - bulgaria, greece, malta, cyprus, italy and spain - if necessary, in order to ensure our financial solidarity in this important task in the interests of the survival of the union. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the council and to the european parliament.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by thanking my colleague, mr daniele viotti, and also my shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation and for really trying to make sure that we as the european parliament set the main priorities for this next budget. i also thank the commission, mr commissioner, for having already taken the right direction in heading 1a, which is always suffering from the fact that the member states try to talk about innovation and research, but regularly try to cut back in this sector first. i urge the commission to support us in this process, to give innovation and research the financial leeway to ensure that the programmes - whether cosme or the programmes for small and mediumsized enterprises, which are very successful and are essential for the economic competitiveness of our member states - are given the necessary priority. we are aware that we must give greater priority to security, but also to migrants and refugees. i consider the new council decisions to be very important. the member states must also give an answer and not only always ask us to change the allocation but also to have the decisions taken by their own heads of government be followed by financial consequences for the budget of the european union. i am also grateful that we are continuing the interrail programme and are pushing forward the erasmus programme so that young people can exchange with other member states, that is to say, they can also learn and study in another country. but here too: these programmes are always all jeopardized by the member states. we want to give young people a positive attitude towards europe and give them the opportunity to get to know other countries, and not to put the red pencil down on these important programmes which affect european citizens and young people.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, commissioner oettinger, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in my short speech i would like to address a small but significant section of the 2019 budget, to which you have already referred, mr oettinger, but first of all i would like to congratulate my dear colleague daniele viotti on his excellent preparatory work. i would like to speak about the new financial facility for turkey, or as it should be called, the financial facility for the provision of refugees in turkey, which is undoubtedly a useful and politically valuable initiative. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which will be based on the principles of the united nations charter and the united nations charter. but what is significant is the way in which the member states handle this money. we had a situation in the first financial facility where the eu had to raise one billion euros and the member states had to raise two billion. this is not a small sum for a budget of 144 billion euros for this financial year. and now it is simply reversed to say that two billion should be raised here and only one billion by the member states. so it's not half and half, it's a reversal of the ratio. and, mr oettinger, it is only a small consolation that we have managed to prevent this from going to the european budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it's this self-serving mentality that, frankly, infuriates me. the budgetary authority of the european union has two arms, the council is only one of them. i recommend that my group should remain very serious and very firm on this point.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not mr viotti, i do not share your positive assessment of the draft report. i think that this draft shows once again that the budget is being looked at in a completely wrong way. it's like you can have money and everything. where's the money coming from? the money that is being spent here is being extorted from the taxpayers first, it does not fall from the sky. we take it away from the citizens and then claim that we can achieve a better purpose here by redistributing it than if we left this money to the citizens. i think that is simply and profoundly wrong. we have to make sure that we get a de-bureaucratization. that would be a contribution to strengthening the economy. we can do something with that, but not by redistributing. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do that. this is not the way. of course, it is absolutely right that we should fight youth unemployment. but here we are raising completely false expectations, pretending that the eu should simply start new programmes and then we will get the youth unemployment under control. it's not gonna happen. people will be disappointed, foreseeable. we shouldn't do something like this. there are many sensible things that the eu can do. for example, that we are supporting the less developed regions. spending money on this is real solidarity. that's what we stand for, and that's what i stand for. we can do that, but we do not need to keep changing programmes for each problem. then we'll automatically have more bureaucracy. i am calling for less and a better europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yeah, when i look at this trilogy, i actually wonder, where are the visions? they're completely missing. there is a separate chapter on 'pilot projects, preparatory measures', but i read little about effectively addressing the reasons and causes of migration, about promoting the willingness to return. i was in aleppo three weeks ago. there, the governor told me that in 2017, 786,000 refugees returned from turkey, and this year, more than 240,000, that's over a million. and then i hear here that you continue to plan 3 billion euros for turkey. why don't you save that billion? because if there are only two million in turkey and not three million, then you can give less money to turkey and you can invest that money here in the eu. there are also citizens in need within the eu, there are the homeless, there are unemployed young people, there are weak regions. all of this could use the money, unless you want to use it to help the legitimate syrian government rebuild the country.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. 2019 is the last year of the current funding period. normally, therefore, the programmes and projects of the current multiannual financial framework would have to be brought to their full potential in that financial year. however, from the point of view of the committee on budgetary control, i would like to comment on some of the findings which give us cause for concern with regard to the 2019 budget. the outstanding commitments reached an all-time high of 266.9 billion at 31 december 2017 which is more than two annual rates of payment. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the beneficiary of the aid, and that the aid is granted to the beneficiary of the aid. only in 2017 did the implementation of the programmes of the current funding period start to accelerate. we hope that this will increase in 2019 so that the new funding period, the new mff, will not be burdened again with significant overruns on the current funding period. the committee regrets that the eu's financial obligations have been increased by long-term guarantees, guarantees and other legal obligations. this calls for careful financial management. this includes the creation of a growing number of financial instruments and trust funds, which - like the european fund for strategic investments - have shown very poor performance but could pose risks to the budget. recent challenges, such as managing the migration of hundreds of thousands of people across the eu's external borders, also showed that the budget is not very flexible. the commission has mobilised funds from various budget headings, but a reporting system showing what funds have been used and how much has been spent remains on the wish list. we strongly remind the commission that an integrated set of financial and accounting reports with a five-year forecast of expected inflows and outflows must be sent to parliament by 31 july of each following year.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are facing a serious opponent today, the summer festival of parliamentary society, and i am very grateful to you for having managed to come here today to debate an important project, namely the so-called omnibus revision of the financial regulation, which is on the agenda for the first time in the plenary. it is no exaggeration to say that this dossier has kept me, many of my colleagues, you and the staff of the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control busy for a year and a half. i would therefore like to begin by thanking the co-rapporteur, mr richard ashworth, the shadow rapporteurs, the rapporteurs from other committees and, of course, the secretariats, the directorate for budgetary affairs, the directorate-general for finance, the legal service and the linguistic lawyers who have been working on the dossier for a long time - almost half a year - with the finer points. i would like to thank the commission, the budget commissioner and his team, mr waelbroeck and mrs calviño, whom we have handed over to the spanish government, and of course the maltese and estonian presidencies. i would like to thank the austrian presidency for its interest in this subject. the commission proposal came as a bit of a surprise to us in september 2016, not only in terms of the timing but also in terms of the scope of the proposed changes. that was very surprising. we are putting an end to a legislative process which is in many ways a record. the commission proposal not only contained a completely restructured and substantially amended financial regulation, but also amendments to 15 sectoral regulations - hence the name 'omnibus'. this structure meant that for the first time we were obliged to work with the committees for agriculture, regional policy, employment, industry and transport to make a tailor-made extension of the rules of procedure to determine the distribution of responsibilities. i'd advise against a repeat, given the experience. we have discussed over 750 amendments in the committees on the rules of procedure, the budget sections and the budgetary control sections themselves, of which about half ended up in the negotiating mandate. we have managed to draw up the draft report within 10 weeks and then to put it to the vote in the committees within a further 10 weeks. we have made 13 half-day trilogues in the space of three and a half months last autumn, and then there was a fourteenth to clarify the question of when the new rules will come into force. was it worth it? yes, overall it is, because it has many useful improvements and contains useful simplifications for the recipients. i think we could have avoided some of the debate and the detours if we had had a simple structured proposal. the commission proposal, commissioner, has made a number of useful improvements. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this is also the point on which we have been able to win our way through parliament, and some others - four central ones: there are no trust funds within the eu, which would have led to less democratic control and an even greater fragmentation of the eu budget. the non-profit principle is maintained. there is no transfer of funds from the structural funds to the efsi and the powers of the budget committee are preserved. we have reached the rules on the intensification of conflicts of interest on our own initiative. we have introduced for the first time a system for letterbox companies and tax havens. we've reinforced the performance mindset. we have strengthened the role of parliament in setting up new thematic trust funds, and we have created a uniform framework for financial instruments and guarantees in the eu budget. we have introduced a new article on audit committees and we have accelerated the discharge procedure and we are in agreement on this. the council has again failed to implement the flexibility cushion and the crisis reserve. we believe that this is a good proposal, a good overall package, and we would like to thank all those who have contributed to it.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you to all the collaborators. i'm not going to tell you. i have already written my introduction: agricultural politicians are generally considered to be reasonable people. there's a great quote about that. it's a bit of materialist philosophy, but there's a saying: freedom is the realization of necessity. and in the household, in particular, this shows a little bit of the political freedom that we have, because basic computing is often not very sexy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we got away with a pretty good shave, i'd say. perhaps it was also an acknowledgement of our low error rate, which we can boast of in the agricultural sector. you can argue - there's a long argument - whether all this is meaningful, what we do, but what we do, we make it fake-proof, i would almost say. in the first pillar we are close to the insignificance threshold, and in the second we have already become much, much better. and we're also grateful that we're getting the funds that we were promised. we still have reservations, and those reservations concern the question of de-bureaucratisation, the proposals are also on the table, and i would say that we can continue negotiating at this point. i repeat: agricultural politicians are generally considered to be reasonable people.
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in short, i can agree with the assessment of mrs maria in its entirety. if we take the various objectives - simplification, flexibility, modernisation, learning from experience and drawing conclusions - then i think we have found a good balance. i would ask all of us to work with these new regulations now. they won't last forever. there will still be room for improvement in the foreseeable future. but i think it is a good basis between the interest of parliament in shaping budgetary policy, in controlling the implementation of the budget, the interest of our citizens and applicants for programmes, in entering into dialogue with the european union as simply and unbureaucratically as possible and in calling up budgetary funds in the interests of our european objectives, and the desire, thirdly, to avoid corruption, dishonesty and fraud with european tax funds. the commission, which has the primary responsibility for the implementation of the budget, is therefore very pleased with the result.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to thank all the colleagues who have sacrificed themselves tonight and have forsaken what must have been a very nice party. i would like to reply to mr jahr's materialist quote, in mao's words: to learn from the farmers is to learn to win. i can only say that the budgetary rules we have just presented are good, but we must see that they are applied. i am now looking at 15 years of budgetary changes. every two years the commission comes up with some kind of draft. the big request i have is that it is good for now that we ensure the stability of the rules and not try again and again to get what we have not got now. we have made a crucial simplification of flat-rate payments. you get 60,000 euros in tax money for very little evidence, that's a lot of money. that's an average annual salary in germany more even , in other countries it's very, very much money. i can only say that those who still say that it is complicated are simply malicious and do not know anything. so we can't give it all away. i am concerned about the crucial simplification of the audit. i am already curious to see how we deal with member states whose administrative and control authorities are more than doubtful, where the population is crying out against us: corruption and fraud with eu money, how we justify other things, that is, these things, in the face of this population. i am sure the commission will think of something else. i would like to make a proposal to simplify the procedure for public procurement. the directive is subject to codecision - i discussed this with mrs jourová this afternoon - perhaps it is time to take procurement out of the codecision procedure and consider it as a technical basis where not everyone can write their favourite phrase in. i think that would be an important simplification for all concerned. i want to thank you again for a successful legislative process.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity to discuss the eu—us privacy shield here today. in the wake of the recent facebook cambridge analytica scandal, this motion for a resolution confirms that privacy matters are taken very seriously in europe. i can only agree with parliament’s concerns in this regard, as the commission has highlighted on previous occasions. but i would like to recall that the privacy shield was set up to offer a high level of protection for personal data. it provides the adequate level of protection required by eu data protection law and the eu charter, and even though the privacy shield predates the entry into application of the eu’s new rules, the general data protection regulation, we negotiated the shield with the new standards in mind. the facebook cambridge analytica scandal took place before the shield existed, and it is the shield that has introduced stricter rules for exactly those practices that seem to be at the heart of this scandal. thanks to stricter conditions for the sharing of personal data with third parties, and more stringent rules on data retention, the data of our citizens is now better protected when it is transferred to the united states. it is of crucial importance that these rules are also properly enforced. i therefore welcome that the united states federal trade commission has immediately opened an investigation in the facebook cambridge analytica case, and that it is also assessing whether these companies violated their obligations under the privacy shield. this investigation will certainly be a test case for the enforcement action of the united states authorities. the framework has been operational for almost two years and, as required, we are continuously monitoring its functioning. almost 4 000 companies from europe and the united states have signed up to the shield. this is more than during the first 10 years of the safe harbour framework’s existence. this testifies to a large usefulness of the shield, but we are all here fully aware that the functioning of the shield could be, and should be, improved. we also expect that the united states authorities fully concentrate on the day-to-day oversight of the privacy shield. i very much welcome parliament’s insistence on the need for regular and proactive compliance monitoring. this is a message we consistently convey in our contacts with the united states. let me also make it very clear that the commission will not hesitate to act upon its obligations and to make use of its power to suspend the privacy shield. but, at this stage, a suspension is not warranted. all the elements on which our adequacy finding was based have remained in place since the new us administration took office, and we have seen some improvements and new appointments in the relevant bodies and authorities. we also have to keep in mind that without the privacy shield framework, data transfers would predominantly take place on the basis of contractual safeguards between eu and us companies. in comparison, these will be costlier, in particular for smaller companies and start-ups. moreover, a sudden suspension would affect all those individuals in the eu whose personal data would no longer benefit from the additional protections of the privacy shield. at the same time we fully share the position of parliament that there are a number of outstanding issues which have to be addressed. i have already made clear to my counterparts in the united states that i want the open issues to be resolved by the second annual review, which will be kicked off by commerce secretary wilbur ross and myself in brussels on 18 october. our us counterparts will need to provide answers to the challenges that we identified at last year’s annual review. i will not simply repeat the same in the second annual review. i expect the united states to stick to its commitments, including on finding a permanent solution on the ombudsperson. let me also stress that the data protection supervisory authorities have been, and will be, strongly associated with the work of the commission, including with the second annual review. i count on your support so that ahead of the second annual review we can transmit a strong eu message of urgency to the united states, and i look forward to hearing your views on this important topic.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. it's a stupid situation we're in. on the one hand, we are convinced that the privacy shield is actually a good basis for transatlantic data traffic, but on the other hand we also see the shortcomings that it still has, so to speak, in the us administration, especially with regard to what has been agreed. and now, facebook and cambridge analytica are also coming into the picture. so from the epp point of view we have to say: the agreement is working well in principle, and the idea of improving the privacy shield after each review and making it better and better is also good and right. the epp remains convinced that this is the right way to protect the data of our citizens. we will therefore not support any demands which would affect or undermine the agreement as a whole. we do not see the point in one company abusing its position to bring 2,999 other companies into this insecurity or distress. what are we going to do once these companies have binding corporate rules? in this case, do we want to change or abolish all data protection law, because that is the sensible way of not depending on these political levels? so i think we actually need more control. we must insist - and you are right to insist - that the administration in the united states be told again that this is not the way to go. and we should respond to it with thought, not emotion.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i'm sure you will. the commission has already suffered shipwreck with its predecessor, safe harbour, and there are improvements to privacy shield. but is this enough to achieve data protection in the us that is essentially in line with eu rules? because that's the only yardstick by which the privacy shield needs to be measured. and unfortunately, it does not currently meet that standard. the list of concerns is long: insufficient protection against profiling, weak oversight by the ombudsperson, who still has no permanent staff, the us independent agency for monitoring civil liberties is not fully accountable, important reports on the extent of intelligence surveillance are withheld from the public, it is difficult to defend against data abuse, no protection against mass government surveillance, and no protection against corporate data abuse, as the recent facebook/cambridge analytica scandal highlights. the risk is therefore high that the european court of justice will take the privacy shield to the same level as safe harbor. and even today, companies that have a well-functioning legal department say they don't rely on eprivacy as a foundation for data protection, it's too insecure. some of my colleagues in the conservative party have come out as supporters of the small businesses who need this protection. but what good is a start-up doing with a legal regime that does not provide adequate protection and may not even exist in a year's time? we therefore call for the privacy shield to be terminated if the us government does not address the problems that exist. and this is not just a political requirement, it is enshrined in the data protection regulation. article 45 (5) says that if the shield cannot provide an adequate level of protection, the commission must suspend it. so there's a lot to do.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. it's time to finally admit it: our data is not safe in the united states. the privacy shield does not change that. on the contrary, it allows for the transfer of our data to companies and intelligence agencies in the united states almost without borders. the commission has also identified a number of shortcomings in the privacy shield. they threaten to take the matter to the european court of justice if there is no massive improvement. as a corroboration, the recent revelations about nsa listening centers in eight at&t hubs have revealed a clear violation of the requirements of the ecj in its safe harbour ruling. we have the best conditions right now. with the application of the general data protection regulation since 25 may, us companies offering services in europe must comply with eu law anyway. and since the facebook scandal, the political mood in the us has also been shifting towards data protection laws. the new california consumer privacy act is clearly modeled after our privacy shield ordinance, and even the white house is considering a u.s.-wide privacy law. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to take a decision on the application of the principle of proportionality. i therefore ask you to vote in favour of the text of the libe committee without amendments.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the privacy shield evaluation made one thing pretty clear: the privacy shield is not a shield for fundamental rights at all, but it is a fig leaf for the gossipers. the european parliament has been very active in the debate on the european union's relations with the united states, and i think that the european parliament has been very active in the debate on the european union's relations with the united states. and the surveillance laws have not been changed, but extended. the mass data collection continues vigorously as if nothing had happened. perhaps the united states should put in place a sensible data protection system, and then we really wouldn't have to continue with the circus we've been running here all day. i remind you again, yes, safe harbor was struck down by the european court of justice because of mass surveillance, not because of a bad name. we're just calling it something else. and the americans had also made some commitments, like changing fisa 702, like creating legal channels for the europeans. not much happened. the privacy shield does not provide adequate protection of personal data, and this is not in line with the general data protection regulation. if you want to do it, it's illegal. us companies are happily making billions in profits while we watch eu law being trampled on day by day. the commission is the guardian of the treaties, and we therefore call on it to suspend the privacy shield if all the deficiencies are not remedied by 1 september. and if the commission does not do that, we have to talk about a motion of inaction against it. i will say it again at the end: we are really making a fool of ourselves if we do not take our own laws seriously and do not actually protect the fundamental rights of citizens.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the eu-us privacy shield offers some improvements over the previous eu-us safe harbor agreements. however, it must be made clear that the protection of personal data still raises a great deal of questions in many areas: commercial aspects, national security, legal remedies and, indeed, law enforcement. the commission must finally put more pressure on the us government. this government is responsible for making sure that american companies follow and implement it. the commission must take greater action in this area. we must aim to have a real data protection agreement and to have guaranteed the data protection regulation. large companies have the opportunity to draw up their own regulations today. but it is the small businesses in particular who must be confident that they will have a high level of protection on which to rely in the future, and indeed legal certainty. this is necessary and the commission must really do something about it.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for this very interesting discussion, from which i understand that we share the same concerns and the same dedication to ensuring strong data protection safeguards for eu citizens. as many of the speakers mentioned, there are also concerns regarding small and medium-sized european enterprises. i well remember the time after 6 october 2016 when safe harbour was annulled by the european court of justice. what we heard from the big american companies, first of all, was that yes, they would cope with the situation and would make individual arrangements as they have an army of lawyers, but i heard from small and medium-sized european companies that there was panic and a big problem of sudden legal uncertainty. that is why we worked so hard on creating the new system, fully tailored to the requirements of the european court of justice in the schrems case. i came here to share with you my conviction that, with the privacy shield, other protection of the data of europeans is better guaranteed, but i openly admit that the system does not work absolutely perfectly and that we need to impose continuing and increasing pressure on the us administration to fulfil all the commitments, because if they do not do so i will not hesitate to suspend the shield. but this time has not yet come. we still have to take some time before the second annual review and give them the chance to do what is necessary. one more point of a formal nature: this is not an agreement, this is a unilateral decision of the commission, and we are taking our responsibility very seriously. i myself was fully aware that by adopting the decision on the privacy shield i was becoming jointly responsible for what is happening to the data of european people on us territory, and this is a strong factor compelling me to be very vigilant and to do everything possible to achieve the goal of protection of european data in the full sense, which is essentially equivalent to what we have under the general data protection regulation rules. we know where the weaknesses of the system are and, as i said, we pushed the americans to come forward with improvements. we have seen some improvements, but there are still things to be done. especially, i do not understand why there is still no fully fledged ombudsperson in office, and that has to be achieved as soon as possible. i think that if the european union has one strong voice we will achieve much more than if we send differing signals to the usa, and i appreciate parliament’s continuing support for having as high as possible a level protection of european people’s data overseas. thank you for this debate and for your sustained support, and i can only repeat that the commission is fully committed to doing everything possible in order to have better news in the second annual review. if not, we will think about the next steps.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, as the honourable member is aware, the payment accounts directive is an important piece of legislation that improves access by citizens to basic banking services. a number of measures to ensure access to a basic payment account were suggested by the commission in its recommendation of july 2011, and these measures were supported by parliament in its resolution of 4 july 2012. in july 2014, parliament and the council enacted a payment accounts directive, which has been in application since september 2016 and all member states have notified transposition of the measures contained in the directive. however, it is for the commission to assess the implementation of eu legislation by the member states and in particular the correct transposition of the payment accounts directive. we trust that the commission will carefully assess whether it has been correctly implemented by all member states and will take any appropriate measures in the case of any breach. when it comes to the us legislation on fatca and its possible extraterritorial effects, let me state the following: it is a principle of international law that the sovereignty of each state implies that it can freely define its taxpayers. therefore, it is not for the council to interpret the legal provisions concerning taxpayers in specific non-eu countries. the double taxation situations which can arise from that principle are solved through bilateral agreements based on international arrangements such as the oecd ones. it is not the role of the council either to interpret intergovernmental agreements concluded by member states and the us, or to evaluate the impact that they may have on citizens. in light of these considerations the possibility for the negotiation of an eu-us agreement on fatca has not been discussed by the council. finally, on the general data protection regulation (gdpr): as the honourable member is aware, this entered into application on 25 may. the gdpr provides that processing of personal data, such as the disclosure of personal data on bank accounts, is only lawful if its processing has a legal basis such as an international agreement between an eu member state and the us. moreover, the gdpr applies to the processing of personal data regardless of whether the processing of the data takes place within the european union or not. therefore, the same data protection rules apply to all data subjects who are in the european union, including eu citizens and residents irrespective of which member state they are staying in. furthermore, the gdpr sets out harmonised rules for transfers and disclosures of personal data from the eu to non-eu countries.
member of the commission. – madam president, first of all, i would like to recall that the us foreign account tax compliance act (fatca) is implemented through intergovernmental agreements negotiated bilaterally between the us and each member state. member states chose not to give the commission a mandate to negotiate an eu agreement, preferring bilateral agreements. i would also like to underline that the information exchange requirements under the act, as such, are similar to those in our eu directive on mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation and to the oecd global standard for automatic exchange of financial account information, which is currently being implemented by over 100 jurisdictions. at the same time, the commission acknowledges that fatca and the related intergovernmental agreements may have the unintended effect of hindering access to financial services in the eu for persons regarded by the us authorities as american citizens or tax residents. this includes ‘accidental americans’ – people who were born in the united states or to united states parents and who may not have any other connection to the united states. as parliament rightly states in the oral question, us tax rules are based on citizenship. as a result, anyone holding us citizenship, anyone residing mostly in the united states or entitled to permanent residence in the united states will be subject to us tax obligations. this has been acknowledged at international level and in the tax treaties signed by the us with all member states. the commission understands that one of the practical problems that eu financial institutions are confronted with is that they need a us tax identification or social security number to report the financial information required under fatca to the united states tax authorities. however, customers who are subject to fatca may not have such a number, and obtaining it seems to be cumbersome and potentially costly. nevertheless, it should be borne in mind that similar reporting obligations are required under the directive on administrative cooperation and at international level through the oecd global standard for automatic exchange of financial information. concerning the possible discrimination towards consumers and their right to payment accounts, all consumers who are legally resident in the eu, including real and accidental americans, are entitled to open a basic payment account, irrespective of their nationality or member state of residence, under the payment accounts directive. should member states not enforce this directive, the commission will decide on appropriate measures, including the launching of an infringement procedure. member states appear to have followed similar approaches to the issue. they have concluded bilateral agreements with the united states based on the same model. national legislation implementing the agreements has to be in line with the requirements of eu data protection law and the eu charter of fundamental rights. when national data protection authorities analysed the issue in february 2018, they found that there had been no occasions where the processing and transfer of data to the united states under fatca had to be prohibited.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the committee on petitions feels that, when i summarize the statements made by the commission and the council in this way, i am reminded of a philosophical saying which could be translated as follows: 'in the stream of truth lies float alongside'. of course, it is right that as a country, you should also have the ability to track your taxpayers anywhere in the world, no matter where they are. it's all true. but we, as the petition committee, are dealing with a special group of people, petitioners who have become citizens of the united states, almost unknowingly or unintentionally. an example that i can give you is that the birth of a child cannot always be precisely timed. the child is born in the united states, then the parents return to europe with the child, and the child acquires american citizenship. they don't know that. it doesn't matter until you're of legal age. now, one could say with a little bit of gallows humor: by the way, they also have an advantage, they can suddenly become american president, which the others failed. but of course, this has a whole lot of implications in everyday life: the bad news, when you try to open a bank account. you said that this is generally possible, but this is what banks do, subcutaneously. they don't say, "you're not going to get a bank account", if they somehow feel there's a risk, and then they have to give data that they probably wouldn't want to give. then they'd better send the customer somewhere else. it gets worse when you apply for a loan. in the credit procedure, the creditworthiness of the person concerned must be determined. he's at risk because he doesn't know if he's going to have to pay taxes in america or not. you'll generally take the safe route, and they won't get loans. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we prefer european solutions. i simply ask that - even if the reference comes from the coalition committee, i know we are not legally competent at all - to take things into account here, to take up the suggestions and to fight again to find a solution in the interests of those concerned.
a writer. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. after the talks we have had this week with the opposition and government representatives from chişinău, from the republic of moldova, i expect that there will be large protests again in chişinău this weekend. i would like to start by appealing to the authorities and the government to protect the right to peaceful protest. we have seen similarly strong waves of protest in armenia and georgia in recent weeks, and the governments of armenia and georgia have shown in an exemplary way that they respect civil rights, that they respect their citizens, and we in the european parliament expect similarly exemplary democratic behaviour in the republic of moldova. the rule of law, the rights of the opposition, the rights of opposition lawyers, the diversity of opinion must be respected in the republic of moldova. we believe the protests are justified. the cancellation of the elections in chişinău was a real shock not only for the citizens of chişinău, but also for us. i would recommend that this election be repeated as soon as possible. i share the decision of the majority of colleagues who negotiated the resolution that the european commission should suspend the disbursement of macrofinancial assistance. the government of the republic of moldova should finally take the recommendations of the venice commission and osce/odihr seriously. we should wait and see whether the parliamentary elections announced for autumn will be conducted in accordance with good democratic rules. and we should also work with the moldovan government to finally solve the banking scandal, this huge fraud. the prime minister told me that 80% of the money that disappeared is now known. in cooperation with european police authorities, these assets must be recovered for the benefit of the citizens of moldova. this should be another condition for macro-financial assistance.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. mr năstase, who is here today, was elected mayor of chişinău with over 52% of the vote. i congratulate him on his choice. it's impossible, absolutely impossible, how he was treated. now, we don't like the judge's skull. that is why it has been cleverly rewritten as 'concern'. but in a debate, you have to be able to say, "this is a scandal". what happened there is far from proportional and therefore unacceptable. and if there is a person or a group behind this who has also promoted this: if this is so, this must be clarified, and those who have done this have not only damaged democracy, they have betrayed their country, which in my opinion was actually on a very good path. that's why rebecca harms was right. those who protest there must not only be protected as long as they are peaceful, but they must know that this parliament is in fact mentally standing beside them in the street. but there is one thing - and we are different here - that we do not like, and that is to turn the financial tap on, because i am firmly convinced that this is something that is harmful to the country and its citizens. and nobody really wants that. that's why we're gonna abstain. but we are fully in line with the request.
a writer. madam president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your reply. already 31st day of the labor struggle of our interpreters, there must be time to name this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. my answer is clear: nothing. the moldovan elites are acting as they have always done for at least the last ten years. eu diplomats consider it a failed state, while country specialists characterize it as a captured state. the two assessments have one thing in common: in chisinau, oligarchic cliques rule, whose worldview assumes that not only the economy, but every state institution should serve exclusively them privately, and every aspect of social life must be subordinated to their interests. the result is something we see every day: election results are annulled at will, as in chișinău, electoral laws are tailored to the needs, political opponents are criminalized, their lawyers are threatened with criminal prosecution or even forced into political asylum in eu countries. in moldova, the violations of the most fundamental human rights, corruption, abuse of office and judicial arbitrariness go hand in hand with the theft of billions of euros of public funds, their concealment and the government's unwillingness to provide information. it's been the same game for ten years. let us name the horse and rider, plahotniuc, filat, shor, plato, usatii. let's call the system moldau, how it works. few people get rich beyond all limits, while many live in poverty and have to seek work and future opportunities abroad. every day they are told about media monopolies of the oligarchs that there is no alternative. no, there is an alternative, and that is why we should freeze macrofinancial assistance with immediate effect and call on the commission and the council to sanction personally the thieves and manipulators.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. since 1991, we have seen nato and the european states pursue a strong policy of encircling russia. moldova is one of them, georgia and ukraine - all these countries are to be removed from russia's influence. i wonder where honesty is in this house. where were the calls when the constitutional court deposed moldova's first directly elected president, dodon, in 2017? when did they want to block loans or withhold allocations? today, moldova's sovereignty is simply a means of begging for loans from the eu, that is, from the west. where is the one billion dollars, with three billion dollars, with three moldovan banks? all these things are still unresolved. the eu would do well to implement the principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of another state in moldova as well.
a writer. mr president, madam high representative, i would like to thank you for your work. while a high-level delegation from the east african community recently assured un secretary-general guterres that burundi is on a path of stabilization following the political unrest since 2015, a united nations commission of inquiry into the situation in burundi has come to a different conclusion: political violence, arbitrary arrests, extrajudicial executions, hate speech and violations of civil and human rights are commonplace. the president's youth organization, imbonerakure, has a free hand in the repression of the people, freedom of the press has been abolished, journalists are being murdered, imprisoned or forced to leave the country because their lives are threatened, as are more than 400 000 people who have so far fled to neighbouring countries and are living miserable lives there. almost four million people in burundi itself are dependent on foreign humanitarian aid. many foreign donors have stopped their direct financial support for the fifth poorest country in the world, so that the money does not end up in the hands of those responsible for the dictatorship in burundi, president nkurunziza and his entourage. the intolerable conditions in burundi are also becoming a major problem for the neighbouring countries. in addition to the refugees, there are increasing reports of armed gangs from burundi raiding villages, for example in rwanda. burundi is set to hold elections in 2020. nkurunziza is said to have said that he no longer wants to run, contrary to earlier stated intentions. but elections only make sense if they are prepared under international supervision, the repression of the opposition forces is stopped immediately and political prisoners are freed.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not we all have had intense discussions, but what is this reform about? it is about stopping the exploitation of european artists that is happening on the internet. we're talking about the big american platforms like google and facebook, which have been making huge profits for years, at the expense of european creatives. we should not accept this any longer, and i cannot understand how anyone can promote this extreme internet capitalism. (applause from the centre) while others are calling america first, misusing our data and exploiting our artistic content, we should start to stand by our european creatives, protecting our values. otherwise, we're in for a creative bankruptcy. the reform also aims to balance existing rights - copyright and the fundamental right to property - and not to open the door to cultural theft to the greatest extent possible. what's the problem with wanting to avoid copyright infringement? what's the matter with us wanting fair pay for journalists, publishers and artists? and what's the argument against big platforms taking more responsibility? the extreme campaign we're facing right now from google, facebook and amazon, which is being carried into this house, which even involves the children of mps, because they're being called, is all based on lies. they find no impairment for the individual user. anyone can still post their links, anyone can still upload with legal certainty, and for the first time, the individual is not even liable for copyright infringement. (applause from the centre)
the next item is the debate on the request for a written answer with debate by marijana petir, alojz peterle, anna záborská, franc bogovič, michaela šojdrová, ivana maletić, željana zovko, elisabetta gardini, lorenzo cesa, jan olbrycht, miroslav mikolášik, lars adaktusson, luigi morgano, arne gericke, alberto cirio, fulvio martusciello, tomáš zdechovský, mihai ţurcanu, massimiliano salini, jadwiga wiśniewska, laima liucija andrikienė, agnieszka kozłowska-rajewicz, ivica tolić, pavel svoboda, patrián kelly, karl-heinz floringa, gál kál, heinz klamlamlamlam, ivana maletić, adam bendt, kelika bendt, czesława czesława, ivanka czesława, ivanka czesława, ivanka czesława, ivanka czesława, ivanka czesława czesława, ivanka czesława czesława, ivanka czesława czesława, ivanka czesława czesława, ivanka czesława czesława, ivanka czesława czesława, ivanka czesława czesława, ivanka czesława czesława, ivanka czesława czesława, ivanka czesława czesława czesława, ivanka czesława czesława, ivanka czesława czesława czesława czesława czesława czesława czesła
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the matter we are discussing here is very serious. and the issue of islamism is also very serious. but i don't think it's appropriate to denigrate a religion outright. i'm calling you to order.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i've called you to order. it remains because you used other words in your speech than 'intolerant', which i consider to be unparliamentary. i'm not going to give you another forum by allowing a question. spontaneous speech
vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me share with you a bit of background. a european union member state that i know very well, an extremely catholic member state that i know very well used to have a law justifying honour killing that was abolished only less than 40 years ago. this is to say that legislation changes, culture changes, and what we can and must do is to accompany and encourage this change towards having full respect of every single human being – this is what the european union stands for – regardless of gender, religious ethnicity or whatever other conditions. this is where we stand. this is our dna. and let me add one additional point that some of you raised and with which i will conclude. it is that our credibility in defending and protecting religious minorities everywhere in the world is directly linked to our capacity, our policies and practices, to protect and defend minorities inside the european union – inside the european union. i hope this is a message that we bring back home to all our countries, to all our member states, because this is something i face in my daily work with our partners around the world. if we want to stand firmly and clearly in defence of all religious minorities in the world, we have to be consistent on this at home. (applause)
the debate is closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
mr president, you have just indicated that you would like to bring this matter to the bureau. i asked you last thursday to clarify this at the meeting of the group chairmen, to examine the extent to which any directorate, the directorate-general for communications, has the right to issue mandates, to monitor the tweets and facebook posts of members and to provide us with information. so please, not only in the bureau, but also in the conference of presidents!
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, what several colleagues have said is very true: we had a terrible fire in greece which cost the lives of so many people. we also had other big forest fires in europe, and i think it is important that we look at them with a more holistic view. so i would propose we enlarge the title and talk about ‘forest fires in europe and consequences of climate change’. that would be my suggestion for a title so that the greek situation can be put into that discussion, but also the portuguese, the swedish, etc. on a more technical note i would just like to ask what happens then to the debate already agreed in october i which was supposed to happen on exactly that issue?
the rapporteur. the commission has already done so. we are now talking about the european solidarity corps. it was a very good proposal by the commission to give young people in the european union and beyond more opportunities to volunteer, to show solidarity and to increase solidarity in the european union as a whole. i was very excited to be a reporter because this is really a new flagship program, and it's a very positive approach. not all european union programmes are seen in this way. we in parliament - and this is particularly important to me, as it is also part of our cooperation - have improved this proposal. we have made it quite clear what volunteering, volunteering services, volunteering activities really mean. there are those in social work, in working with refugees, in cultural work, in supporting the elderly, or even in working on the climate crisis, and many more. so it's a great opportunity for young people between 18 and 30 to do something for themselves by being in other countries, learning languages, getting to know the local conditions, being in the local communities there - so they can develop themselves, so in the truest sense a humanistic approach to education - and at the same time they do something for the community and for the associations, for the institutions in which they are, by helping other people, because they are convinced that solidarity activities are really good. and then we made a second point really clear: we don't want other companies to kill their jobs afterwards to use this tool. so there should be no abuse. there was also a very clear clarification. but there should be a small share of the new budget, including for job opportunities, but certainly no abuse. i do not want any young person to suffer because there is state or european money here and companies profit from it. then we have a clear focus on disadvantaged young people and especially on rural areas. we also know here, with our interns: the young people who come here are usually those who already have a broad horizon, who know several languages, who have a great education, who are internationally active. but not all young people in the european union are like that. and that is why we must give young people in the countryside, in rural areas, in smaller towns, the opportunity to benefit from these great european offers. then, after a hard fight with the council, we came to the conclusion that there is such a thing as fresh money. this is money that would otherwise have been returned to the member states from the european budget, and they have now released it in the order of 75 million euros, that there is extra money. it's not a huge sum, but it's a start on a new program that will excite young people. i have already received a lot of interest. there are new digital job opportunities. but it is also important to me that young people in particular need personal contact. it's not just digital. you need to have relationships with people who care about these young people. and that is why we have included this in our parliament's proposal for this european solidarity corps. i find it interesting that now, politically, criticism is being voiced from the far left and the far right. for some it's too european, for others it's not social enough. but the pro-european forces in this house were very united in their support for this new programme. i would also like to thank all those who have worked with me - mainly female colleagues - on this programme. it was a great collaboration. thank you very much. i hope it's a really great program for young people. they deserve it, and so does the european union.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission is not since the european voluntary service was set up 22 years ago, one hundred thousand europeans have taken part in this programme. the european voluntary service is now to become even more attractive, and we have the ambitious goal of adding another hundred thousand participants, and i think that is a good claim that we have. it was important for us in the s&d group to defend the non-profit principle of this programme in order to ensure the non-profit nature of the activities. it was also important to clearly distinguish between voluntary work and professional work, to prevent voluntary work from being misused to displace jobs. as for the s&d group, it was particularly important to us that the money for this programme was actually fresh money, and it is good that we have managed to ensure that at least 20% of the money is fresh, that there is transparency in the reallocation of funds and that there is no negative impact on other programmes and funds such as the erasmus+ programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that the council and the commission have been somewhat irresponsible in this project, which is so important for young europeans. it is simply not possible for the council to announce publicly in the press that there is a new programme and then not to provide the money for it! it has developed the new programme but has not ensured that its funding does not jeopardise other existing programmes. and the funding of this sensible programme has finally made it clear once again that the european union must be worth a little more to the member states than it is now.
rapporteur. – mr president, i want to thank all my colleagues who have supported this new programme, and i would like to stress that there is no risk to erasmus+. in fact, it is the other way round. as we heard, there is 20% fresh money, so it’s about additional possibilities for young people and, as i said before, especially disadvantaged youngsters. i think this programme represents a very good combination: giving more possibilities to young people in europe and beyond, with more money and more opportunities for self-development, and at the same time more opportunities to serve their communities in very different fields. this will be another flagship programme, i hope, alongside erasmus+. so it is not a matter of contradiction or of competition; no, it’s the other way round. it’s really a win-win situation. it is very interesting for me, from a political perspective, to hear the arguments against. to the brexiteers and ms morvai i would say that i know, to some extent, you cannot think in terms of supranational democracy. you think that democracy works only in a nation state but, you know, the european union, for decades has now, has proved that there is a very good combination of local, regional, national and supranational democracy, and that is what i will defend because that is the future. believe me, we have had such a bad history with nationalism all over europe and we should not go back to this bad sort of nationalism. yet when i listen to you, you are so filled with hate and resentment. when young people work with refugees, it is a very good contribution to solidarity. this is not about mass immigration and so on: it’s about solidarity and being responsible for people who are poor, who are in need. the fact that young people are ready to do that, and that we enable them to do it and to develop their capacities, reflects a good european attitude. i like it, and i thank all who support this programme. to get the budget up, and then, hopefully with the next multiannual financial framework, to go beyond one billion would be a good proof of european-ness.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, dear colleagues, dear commissioner. just one and a half years ago in may 2017, we adopted the structural reform support programme for 2017 to 2020. back then, one of the main points of critique of this house was the financing of the programme from the cohesion policy envelope. structural reforms are a very wide subject. in the past, they have been used for many different things and many different things have been called structural reforms. the aim of cohesion policy however, and the aim of cohesion money thus, is actually pretty well defined. it means to strengthen economic and social cohesion by reducing disparities in the level of development between regions. now, nearly one and a half years later, we need to amend the srsp. but again, no fresh money is being mobilised from the eu budget to fill the financing gap. instead, again, redeployment shall fix this. this time, up to eur 40 million from heading two – so money foreseen for agriculture and natural resources – shall be redeployed. this is not acceptable for my group. additionally, the outcome of the negotiation leaves one important question unanswered: if money is short, which requests should get support of the programme? we proposed some pretty clear criteria to make the process more transparent, but the compromise in the outcome is rather meaningless and actually leaves a lot of discretion to the commission to arbitrarily make a choice among the requests for support from the member states. this is why we cannot support this report in its current form.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – thank you, mr president. ‘i have been living here my whole life. i don’t want to go back to how things were before. i cannot do that. i cannot live in this neighbourhood if we go back to how it used to be.’ this was the very simple message from a woman from a heavily segregated area in belfast whose neighbourhood and community had benefited from peace funds, where a big community centre had been built, and slowly but surely things started to change, things started to develop. she told us about her experiences, about her life, about the history of the place where she grew up. she told us about the violence, the division, the economic devastation. she didn’t have any political agenda. she probably didn’t even have a strong opinion about the european union. all that she wanted us to know was her story and for her story to be taken into consideration when we take decisions here in the european parliament. when we went to northern ireland, with a delegation from this parliament, no matter where we went, no matter whom we talked to, the message was always very similar. the peace funding has played an integral role to build peace in a conflict-ridden area in europe, not only to rebuild infrastructure and the economy, but also to bring people together who had been segregated and separated for decades. peace is very hard to build and very easy to destroy. as europeans we have learnt this lesson over and over again in the past centuries. now for me, it is very clear, we have to make sure that the peace funding will not be lost. we cannot let this brexit disaster mess up the peace in northern ireland. as europeans we have a responsibility, a responsibility to protect a hard-earned peace.
the commission has already done so. i had the honour of chairing the regional development committee delegation to northern ireland in march of this year. the 1998 good friday agreement was just short of its 20th anniversary. we had many conversations with political and civil society actors, and two things struck me in particular: firstly, that all the interlocutors praised the eu's assistance to date as necessary and effective in ending the previously violent inter-group conflict in northern ireland, but secondly, that they all assured us that the peace and reconciliation process in northern ireland is not yet sustainable enough and is still fragile. a hard brexit without continuation of eu programmes in and with northern ireland will reignite the old conflicts. that is the message they have given us, and we should take that warning very seriously, as we saw in derry not so long ago. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i hope that the council will take them up.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, in recent months the greek government has successfully implemented the so—called specific measures for greece, an investment package that has been adopted in view of the severe economic and financial crisis that not only – but especially – hit greece. many of the measures coming from the european level, namely austerity, have actually not helped the situation in recent years. quite the contrary, the specific measures for greece have shown that european policy can help and alleviate the crisis. this is exactly what cohesion policy, and the european union as a whole, should be about: solidarity. we congratulate the greek government, which has made the best use of specific measures offered by the european union to help greece out of the crisis. this way the net financial impact of the specific measures amounted to eur 1.5 billion. the specific measures have thus been a success and extremely helpful. finally, i would like to thank the rapporteur, as well as all the shadow rapporteurs, for the very constructive and useful cooperation on this report.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, let me start by saying to the prime minister that we are very sad about how many lives were lost this summer in the forest fires in greece – in other places in europe as well, but especially in greece – and let me add that we are very sad, seeing him here today, reminding us of the hardship the greek people have had to go through, especially over the last eight years. prime minister, you did not mention this today, but you could have mentioned it. how many children were put into poverty during the last eight years in greece? how many families lost their homes? here my dear friends from the ppe will disagree, but it is your austerity that caused this, it is not our austerity and it was the representatives of your family in athens offering the greek people to leave the eurozone with an unforeseeable impact on the eurozone, with an unforeseeable impact on the greek nation and all over europe. don’t mix things up. you can be sure we will come back to that. but we know exactly, prime minister, and you rightly did this in your great speech, to outline that europe has to start on new endeavours and that we have to be bold and that we have not only to talk about the past but also about the future and that we have to shape the future, the european future. if you would like to do that, we need a new vision, a new objective, a new dream, a new policy and also our institutions have to be prepared for that. this is the topic of today. but let me also be clear that if we would like to have this new vision in europe, all revolutions start at home and each and every country has to contribute to this new endeavour. that also goes for greece. you found a lot of problems in front of you when you took over in government and we have to be blunt on that. our societies cannot be misled by greedy elites. our societies cannot be fooled by those rich people who do not like to pay taxes and our societies cannot be irritated by public administrations working according to nepotistic politics and not according to the rule of law. here everybody has to do his and her homework, but especially also greece. you know that, prime minister, and you have reacted to that domestically. you have reacted to the situation in foreign relations; i can only praise what you did with prime minister zaev. you are solving problems in the balkans for the future of europe, for peace in the balkans. my group is going to full—heartedly support you on that because this is a good step forward, a cornerstone for the new europe. i can only encourage you not to stop domestic reforms but rather to continue with the domestic reforms which are necessary, on the public administration, on the functioning of the rule of law, on striving towards a more fair and equal society. let me tell you the following: my group started two years ago to renew our own programme. we decided that we cannot talk anymore about the economy without talking about the environment. we cannot talk anymore about the environment without talking about the social dimension. we are suggesting for the new programme for this european union to strive towards the united nations sustainable development goals, because we think this is the correct compass for the future. i do not have to give advice to you, prime minister, but only one idea. what if you go to portugal? the newly—reshaped society of greece goes to portugal, talks to antónio costa. you go to spain, and talk to pedro sánchez. you could say, look, i have an idea. you could also go to italy. salvini will perhaps not listen to you – but italian society i am pretty sure would listen to you – and you could say, look, this mediterranean area has a great heritage, but it could also have a great future. what about developing a master plan for safe and sustainable energy? a master plan for better logistics, on land as well as on the sea, for fair and smart mobility. a master plan for high quality services, in tourism as well as in agriculture, for better products for a better future of the european union, for a better world. you can say this master plan will be put up together, as the region, as the societies, as the countries of the south. once we have this master plan for the mediterranean we say, look, european commission, we need your support, and you could support us on that because this is the future of our region, this is the future of the european union and this is the future of the mediterranean. then you could say, look, political parties, if you come up with the lead candidates, if you would like to form the new mandate, the new governance, we will only vote for somebody who is full—heartedly supporting us on this master plan because the whole european union needs a master plan like this for the sake of the next generation. if you go that path, we will be with you, we will support you, and that would be the best for our children and grandchildren. i wish you luck.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister for joining this debate on the future of europe. there is much to talk about on the future of europe and much is at stake because the very existence of this amazing project, here on this continent, is being called into question. we need to find new strength for our european project and, actually, i think a look back will be helpful in looking forward. for me, one of the key things about the greek crisis was that one of the fundamental promises of the european union was thrown into doubt – the promise that the european union would bring prosperity and well—being to its citizens. that promise was broken. all of a sudden, europe was bringing poverty. we can argue that it’s all right because there was a reason why there was a crisis and it was not in europe, and you can say it was obviously national finance ministers who were doing the main part of the job, so not really brussels – that’s all true, but it doesn’t solve the problem that europe was not able to find a common solution of solidity and solidarity. prosperity and well—being: that is one of the union’s fundamental policy goals. that is why we do policies – to fight for our citizens to bring them a better life. so far, we have had a lot of nice promises, including here in the eu, about how nice it would be to have a social europe and to have more social policies, but we don’t have them yet. one of the key lessons from greece is that we need to finally create that social europe, and that we get binding social targets, which are on the same level as the economic rules that we already have. we don’t need more empty declarations. we need access to proper housing and to medical care for all europeans. we need an unemployment support scheme to protect citizens from economic crises and to allow member states to cope with asymmetric shocks and to recover more quickly, and we need a framework directive on minimum income schemes so that we have a safety net everywhere, ensuring well—being in the european union. more than anything else, we also need to address the big problem of youth unemployment, which is becoming even more than an economic problem because if you have a whole generation without a perspective, this is also a problem of democracy. i would agree that since 2008 we still haven’t come to terms with how to prevent any future financial crisis. we have member states who are blocking the banking union parts, like the deposit guarantee scheme, and any proposals for mechanisms to absorb asymmetric economic shocks have been spineless so far. also, our economic policies are being held hostage by national politics and we are not getting where we need to be. crises can happen at any moment and we need to be prepared and resilient. we should really abandon the dogma of fiscal consultation for its own sake and instead focus on sustainable investments that soften the effects of economic shocks and prevent their escalation and proliferation. we also need a support mechanism for member states in economic hardship that fits with european principles and european rules. this is not only an act of solidarity – it is not just a nice handout; it is a very vital piece for the survival of our union. to have a sustainable economy that provides good jobs, we also need to finally start the social ecological transformation of our economy. we have some good examples of that in greece. local initiatives, such as on the island of tinos on recycling and the energy social enterprise in karditsa, are very important trailblazers for the future economy. it’s very good to have local initiatives, but we also need to have a european plan for social-ecological transition. already, more than one million jobs exist in the renewable sector, so leading the way as regards the climate will also pay off in terms of jobs. joint european action is also needed with regard to refugee protection. greece was the main point of arrival for syrians, iraqis and afghanis fleeing from war and persecution. later on it was italy, at some point it was spain and malta. who knows – maybe it is going to be poland tomorrow. we don’t know, but we can no longer leave a single member state, or even an island, alone to do the job that we have to do all together. the european parliament has put forward a good proposal. i really hope, prime minister, that your colleagues in the council will finally make a move on that. it was the fishermen from lesbos, it was the grandmothers in idomeni and it was the many helpers all over greece who saved so many lives, but they also saved humanity itself and they saved the face of all of us in europe. i wonder – what are we giving back in return? (applause) those courageous people who are saving lives should not be criminalised, as we are seeing in some member states. greece has been hit hard by climate change. many of the previous speakers mentioned the forest fires, which were really, really severe. of course, it was not just greece; we even had forest fires up in sweden. europe needs to get its act together finally to combat climate change. this is really a vital question for our planet and our continent. greece has much to offer in regard to a solution: it has plenty of sun and plenty of wind. oil drilling, though, is a thing of the past. it poses serious risks to the environment and it harms the climate that we all depend on. i really hope that greece will abandon all drilling plans and that it will be a frontrunner in renewables and lead the path as it can be. islands like tilos show the way and i really hope that there will be more examples like this. lastly, prime minister, i really want to congratulate you on your truly historic achievement. you have found a solution to a conflict where all predecessors have failed. the agreement on north macedonia is an example for europe. it’s an example of how to solve conflicts peacefully – without violence, without a big struggle – and try live in harmony with your neighbours. that is really an example for europe. thank you for that. (applause)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your reply. yes, the third memorandum expired a few days ago. it is his great success, but - and here i expressly disagree with mr gonzález pons - it was not an act of solidarity, but an enormous burden imposed on the people of greece. and it cannot be seen as the model for how the european union will deal with crises in the future. i want to make that clear. what has happened here is a humanitarian catastrophe, and the institutions, and in particular the right wing, have been complicit in this, because they felt that they had to put a leftwing government on the back foot and say: alternatives must not even be considered. that was her approach! however, and we agree on this too, euphoria is not appropriate today. it is not over yet, the debt is still there. they didn't disappear when the memo ended. the requirement to have a budget surplus remains. the country remains under some kind of control, and securing humanitarian supplies for the refugees requires a lot of commitment from the entire european union. the conditions must now be created for greece to be able to act. what happened to the debt conference? not just for greece, but for all the other countries that are also burdened with debt? it is quite clear that with a country like italy, for example, we cannot do what we did with greece. we all know that we are facing a coming financial crisis. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them, but i am afraid that the council will not be able to accept them. for example, what is not possible, and we must clarify this for each other afterwards: it is not possible for a member of the european union to be excluded from european law, for the eu, including the commission, to accept the violation of fundamental rights. we cannot talk about the charter of fundamental rights, the european charter or the charter of social rights. we're waiting for a change of heart! only then can we also give the people of the european union the signal of what it means to be in a common union. and who, after all, represents the future of the eu? i think that the people who have done this, especially the greek people, have been the ones who have built social networks of solidarity, whether it be in the form of neighbourhood support, medical care, or many other things, with great courage and commitment. they have conveyed the message that it is solidarity between people, solidarity also between the peoples of the european union, that holds us together. there must also be a europe of the people and not simply a europe of maximising profits or repayments to the banks. greece has, as prime minister tsipras said, made it through its modern odyssey and reached ithaca. but this is only the first step. this is just the first step, this is a stopover. we must now fight together to ensure that the future of the eu can be secured together with greece, together with the other threatened states. in the sense of: for more solidarity, for cohesion, for social justice between member states, for reducing imbalances - this is the future of the european union. greece has taught us a great deal.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'd like to speak to 149, 149a and 165. i welcome the fact that in the last few days we have paid tribute to the victims of the forest fires in greece and the brutal bus robbery. but this parliament cannot be blamed for that. but i miss a moment of remembrance for the many victims of multicultural terrorism in europe, and i would like to see daniels from chemnitz and markus from köthen remembered here in parliament on behalf of those who died at the hands of migrants, because many in parliament are complicit in this.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to use this opportunity to say that i withdrew my name from this report. this is not a surprise for my colleagues in the committee, but i am really disappointed that parliament again failed to rebalance the research funds under euratom in favour of challenges, especially around nuclear waste, which we face in many of our member states. the bill will come back to this house later on. thank you for your attention. (applause)
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted the opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the budgetary control in hungary has been on the ground twice and we have seen a tendency for the management of eu funds to deteriorate. and since the election, things have gotten worse. we see problems like corruption, conflicts of interest and clientelism and a lack of investigation and education. in particular, we are dealing with pseudo-legal systems in tendering: in over one third of the cases, only one company is involved. and it is no consolation that in member states like poland it is even worse. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. comparing the visegrad countries - all major recipients of the eu budget - with each other, hungary is the least successful and also performs poorly in government comparison. we see signs of a state-directed economy. the committee on budgetary control has therefore recommended the article 7 procedure without objection. (applause from the centre)
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission is not i made it very clear in the opinion of the committee on culture that the situation of freedom of teaching and research, media freedom and the situation of civil society organisations in hungary is bad. the most famous example is the attack on the central european university: the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the situation has deteriorated since my opinion was adopted in committee. the hungarian government continues its efforts to further undermine the academic freedom and autonomy of its universities. in a new attack, the government is once again attacking the weakest in society and those who want to help them. it punishes all organisations running programmes for the education and integration of migrants, including programmes funded by eu funds. a series of overt and covert measures have further eroded media freedom. the government is thus destroying the foundations of our pluralistic society. the committee on culture therefore calls for the article 7 procedure to be initiated. we must no longer accept that the hungarian government willfully and persistently tramples on the fundamental rights of europe. we must therefore now send a clear and unequivocal signal that fundamental rights are not negotiable for the european parliament. (applause from the centre)
author of the opinion of the consultative committee on women's rights and gender equality. the commission is not mr orbán, what are you doing? we women in europe are watching very closely, we are looking across borders, and we are seeing your policies, and we are seeing you. some say you're democratic and strong. no, we can't see that! a democratic and strong prime minister protects women from violence in the family and in the marriage bed. a democratic prime minister does not protect the perpetrators, but the women. you're not doing it! a democratic prime minister signs the istanbul convention. a democratic prime minister will not allow the freedom of teaching to be restricted in universities. a democratic prime minister is committed to education, from kindergarten to university, without stereotypes, without narrowing. a democratic prime minister is fully committed to european fundamental rights and to women's rights. real strength, mr orbán, real strength is no longer the old male shyness. real strength is the inner strength to be able to live with women on equal terms, to be able to work, to love women on equal terms. women's rights are not negotiable here in europe! (applause from the left and cheers from the right)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me assure you that the presidency and the council as a whole attach the greatest importance to upholding democracy, the rule of law and human rights. there can be no compromises on the rule of law, democracy and human rights. these are our common rules, and they have to be protected. at the council we will have the opportunity to discuss these fundamental issues at the rule of law dialogue on trust in public institutions, to be held at the general affairs council in october. according to article 7, the procedure can be triggered by one third of member states, by the european parliament, or by the european commission. subsequently the council examines the proposal and hears the member states in question. today, we are at the beginning of the debate in this plenary and a vote in the european parliament. the council has not yet considered these matters. therefore, the presidency is not in a position to present a position of the council. we will listen attentively to the debate, and to the prime minister of hungary.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, fortunately, the commission is in a position to give its position on this issue and i want to start by thanking the rapporteur, ms sargentini, for her engagement in preparing this report. the report covers a wide range of measures in different areas taken by the hungarian authorities over the last few years which give rise to serious concerns from the perspective of our common eu values. in this context, let me stress that democracy in our member states, in our european union, cannot exist without the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights. they go together. these values characterise a society in which individual freedom, pluralism, non-discrimination and tolerance prevail. sadly, the commission shares the concerns expressed in the report, in particular, the concerns regarding fundamental rights, corruption, the treatment of roma, and the independence of the judiciary. as regards fundamental rights, the report highlights important issues relating to civil society, academic freedom and media pluralism, which are crucial for the good functioning of democracy. civil society is the very fabric of democratic societies and is threatened by measures taken by the hungarian authorities that lead to a shrinking space for civil society organisations. as a consequence, the commission has referred hungary to the court of justice regarding its law on foreign-funded ngos and has launched an infringement procedure on the hungarian legislation criminalising assistance for asylum seekers. moreover, the commission is analysing the compatibility with eu law of hungary’s recent law on the special tax on education, training and media campaign activities in the area of migration. the commission has also referred hungary to the court of justice regarding the hungarian higher education law for non-compliance with eu law, including academic freedom. as regards the treatment of asylum seekers, the commission has referred hungary to the court of justice for non-compliance with eu law regarding its asylum and return legislation. let me also stress that eu legislation provides that member states have to ensure that the basic needs of persons in transit zones are covered and that they are treated in a humane and dignified manner. this includes providing food to asylum seekers staying in border zones. i would say that this is the humane – or, should i say, the christian – way of doing things. (applause) the commission shows zero tolerance towards fraud against the eu budget and carries out regular audits to assess the functioning of the national management and control system, based on regularly updated risk management. if deficiencies are identified, adequate corrective actions are carried out. through the supervisory role of the commission, hungarian operational programmes for eu structural and investment funds have been the subject of the highest amount of financial corrections in 2016 and 2017 of all the eu member states. moreover, the european anti-fraud office has opened investigations where there was sufficient suspicion of fraud and other irregularities. on 13 july, following up on a proposal from the commission, the council issued hungary with country—specific recommendations, stating that it should reinforce its anti-corruption framework to strengthen prosecutorial efforts and improve transparency and competition in public procurement. these recommendations are based on the 2018 european semester country report for hungary, where the commission identified challenges related to the effectiveness of its national anti-corruption framework in preventing corruption, curbing favouritism in public administration, transparency and its access to information regime, and the prioritisation of fighting high-level corruption via effective investigations and prosecutions. the commission will monitor and assess any measures taken by the hungarian authorities to address these recommendations. the commission launched infringement proceedings against hungary in may 2016 for discrimination against roma children on the grounds of their ethnic origin in the field of education. hungary entered into a constructive dialogue with the commission and has subsequently adopted legislative amendments to prevent segregation and to desegregate. challenges concerning the functioning and independence of the judicial system in hungary also require close monitoring. in particular, as raised in a 2018 european semester country report, more could be done to better balance the powers between the president of the national office for the judiciary and the national judicial council. the commission is also the guardian of the treaties, i say to parliament. when it comes to the application of eu law and the respect of the eu’s fundamental values, the commission intervenes based on accurate and thorough legal analysis, it focuses on concrete national measures and it engages in a dialogue with the authorities. the commission is using all the instruments at its disposal to address concerns, in the manner the commission considers most effective. let me remind you: it was the commission which invoked the article 7 procedure as regards a clear risk of a serious breach of the rule of law by poland on 20 december 2017. this was an unprecedented step in the history of our european union. unlike the european parliament, the commission has a right under the treaty on european union to launch infringement procedures and, in the case of hungary, has launched many value-related infringement proceedings. it is also using other instruments, including audits and investigations relating to the use of eu funds and actions through the european semester, the eu annual cycle of economic policy coordination. the commission remains committed to upholding the fundamental values of the union and will continue to closely monitor the situation in hungary in this regard. the commission will not hesitate to take further action if necessary. my promise to you is that we will be relentless. (applause)
prime minister of hungary. mr president, members of the european parliament, i know you've already made up your minds. i know that this report will be voted on by the majority of you. i also know that my remarks will not change your opinion. yet i have come to you because you are not judging a government, but a nation and a people. hungary, which has been a member of the family of christian european nations for a thousand years, will be condemned. hungary, which has contributed with its work and, if necessary, with its blood to the history of our great europe. hungary will be condemned for having risen up and taken up arms against the soviet union, the world's largest army, and for having sacrificed a great deal of blood for freedom and democracy, and when necessary, for having opened its borders to its fellow east germans. hungary fought for its freedom and democracy. i stand here and see hungary accused by those who inherited democracy, who did not have to take personal risks for freedom. and now they want to condemn the hungarian freedom fighters of the anti-communist, democratic resistance. members of the house of representatives! i stand here today to defend my country because for the hungarians, freedom and democracy, independence and the honour of europe are at stake. that is why i say that the report before you is an insult to hungary, an insult to the honor of the hungarian people. hungary's decisions are made by the voters in the parliamentary elections. you're saying nothing less than that the hungarian people are not trustworthy enough to judge what's in their best interest. you think you know better what the hungarian people need than you hungarians. so i have to say that the report does not give the hungarian people respect. this report is a double standard, an abuse of power, an overreach, and a breach of contract in the way it was accepted. members of the house of representatives! for us in hungary, democracy and freedom are not political, but moral issues. you now want to make a moral judgment based on a numerical majority and to stigmatize a country and a people. you are taking on a heavy responsibility when, for the first time in the history of the european union, you want to exclude a people from european decisions. you would deprive hungary of the right to represent its interests in the european family to which it belongs. we have and will have arguments. we have different views on the christian nature of europe, on the role of nations and national cultures, on the meaning and purpose of the family, and on migration. if we really want unity in diversity, then differences cannot be a reason to stigmatize any country and exclude it from the possibility of a common decision. we would never presume to silence those who disagree with us. mr. president, i have to ask you... they want to exclude a country that has made clear decisions in the european elections. in 2009, we had a 56 percent majority, in 2014, we had a 52 percent majority. ladies and gentlemen of the house of representatives, we are the most successful party in the european parliament. our socialist and liberal opponents are understandably not happy with our success, but taking revenge on the hungarians for not electing them is not fair, and it's not even european. and this report was written by people who don't know the basic facts. the report admits that you failed to send an official delegation to hungary, which means you will make a decision without proper fact-finding. the report contains 37 serious errors of fact. yesterday, every member of parliament received a 108-page document on this subject. my fellow members of parliament! what holds our union together is that we settle disputes within a regulated framework. on behalf of hungary, i myself have made agreements and compromises with the commission on the media law, the judicial system and even on certain passages of our constitution. this report is a violation of the agreements made years ago. but if you can do that and kick him out, what's the point of making a deal with any european institution? what you are doing is a blow to the union and to constructive dialogue. my fellow members of parliament! every nation and state has the right to decide how to run its own life in its own country. we will protect our borders and we will decide who we live with. we built a fence and stopped hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants. we defended hungary, and we defended europe. today's case is the first in the history of the european union where a community has condemned its own border guards. mr. president, i have to ask you... let's get this straight. they want to condemn hungary because the hungarian people have decided that our country will not be a country of immigrants. with all due respect, but in the strongest possible terms, i reject the pro-immigration and pro-migrant forces of the european parliament to threaten, blackmail and slander hungary and the hungarian people on the basis of false accusations. i respectfully inform you that whatever decision you make, hungary will not tolerate blackmail. hungary will protect its borders, stop illegal immigration, and defend its rights, if necessary, against you. we hungarians are ready for the elections in may next year, where the people can finally decide the future of europe and bring democracy back into european politics. thank you for your attention.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, mr prime minister, this is the first time the european parliament has discussed an article 7(1) procedure against a country. an important decision lies ahead of us and, yes, we feel a need for self-assurance, when we have this discussion ahead of us, about the european way of life. let me share with you some of my concerns and, after the prime minister’s intervention, let’s bring it back to what is really of substance on the table: what we are discussing today. we are discussing, for example, something which has a lot to do with freedom. in may this year my group honoured lech wałęsa, a member of the ppe family who is still actively campaigning in poland in favour of our civic platform colleagues, and he spoke about his life. he spoke about the essence of what europe believes in: about freedom, about freedom of expression, media freedom and freedom of science. with his words in mind, my group and i cannot understand why the central european university in budapest is in a critical situation and can no longer award a us diploma. freedom of science is a fundamental value for the european union. (applause)a second point i want to mention is the fact that, in a democracy, a majority in society governs. that’s clear but, for us, in a properly functioning state a lively civil society is also important. i want transparency about the funding sources for ngos, i want to know who the internet giants in russia are who are financing bodies in the european union. but to have an atmosphere in a society in which government critics and ngos have a problem in continuing their work is not what we, as the ppe group, believe in. (applause)there is a third point i want to mention. we may have different ideas on solving the migration issue, but one thing must be clear: if we say generally that you need to be afraid about muslims, and we attack a religion generally, then we are doing the job of the jihadists who want to create a clash within our societies. the european ideals of freedom of religion and the separation between states and churches are the principles on which we invented human rights – not christian rights – on this continent. (applause) and now about article 7(1). the ppe group has always supported the debates here in the house with regard to hungary. we worked constructively with roberta metsola in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the preparation of the document which is on the table. we have consistently supported viviane reding in previous times and frans timmermans today in relation to infringement procedures. and i have to say that, in the past, hungary was always ready to compromise. i must tell you that fidesz was even ready to change the constitution of the country to take account of some of the considerations of viviane reding’s commission and to address them in the constitution of hungary. my political family will finally decide this evening about our voting list for tomorrow, but i have to tell everybody that without a readiness on the part of the hungarian government to resolve the current issues – the legal concerns which are on the table – the start of a dialogue based on article 7(1) could be necessary. as we are talking about dialogue, i want to underline that it is my wish that the dialogue in council could start. council members are publicly attacking each other, they are defining each other as political opponents but, as yet, in the european council, the article 7 procedure in respect of poland has not reached reach the level of our political leaders. so what i would ask for is an end to public accusations among our political leaders. let them put this on the agenda of the next council and be honest with each other. i would expect this from the council. (applause)and we all must decide: that’s clear. we all must decide between egoism and partnership, between nationalism and europe, between dogmatism and unity. these are at stake and there is a broader picture ahead of us. for myself, i must say i never had the need to decide because i was always a convinced european and it is also in my dna that i want to be a bridge-builder. i want to try to achieve a compromise, i want to reach an agreement: that is part of my political dna. and, with this in mind, i want to add a last point to the current discussion on the table. it’s about the party political dimension. we have been talking about media freedom, and journalists in bratislava have told me that, since the killing of ján kuciak, a lot of colleagues are cautious about their articles. they don’t want to be the next. and, colleagues, demonstrators in bratislava have showed their concerns on the streets, they have no trust in their government. so i hope that, among the pro-european democratic parties, we can be united in the upcoming discussion in this house, in fighting for media freedom in all regards and not only when it concerns one country or one discussion. (applause)there is a second example i want to share with you. we had mass demonstrations this summer not in budapest but in bucharest, with violence on the streets. the president needed to intervene in these demonstrations and had to ask the police to be more careful. there is a government misusing a majority to protect the already-sentenced socialist party leader. we all agreed, including the socialists, to put this on the agenda in the next plenary, and again i hope that everybody is ready to fight against corruption in all regards and not only in one specific case that is on the table. (applause) yes, europe needs self-assurance and we have to defend our ideas and our common values, in all our political families, and we have to use the platform of the political families to convince each other that we have a future only if we stick together. in this spirit, the founding fathers of europe created the european union: always to reach out the hand; to build bridges at critical moments; and to stick to the rule of law in every situation. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not the defence of the freedom of the citizens of europe is the paramount duty of this house, and this is quite independent of the colour of the government. my group will therefore take advantage of this situation today to go into detail and to have all the other discussions with you that need to be had. i would just like to say that i am glad that the austrian presidency of the council has managed to do so, because there were also rumours that they would not be able to attend today. this is always a good thing, for it not only opens up a conversation but also gives us an opportunity to get closer to the facts. we should do that. i am extremely irritated when i listen to the prime minister of hungary, mr orbán, because he has not understood what is at stake. this debate is taking place because this house is defending the freedoms of the citizens of hungary, because they are at the heart of the european union, and not because we are attacking the people of hungary. on the contrary, you need to talk to them about why their rights are being violated constantly. i would be delighted if we had figures here in the shape of gyula horn and alois mock, who tore down the iron curtain so that the people of east germany could walk free. (applause from the centre) but that's not the kind of speech you're making. the austrian presidency of the council knows nothing about this and the hungarian prime minister has never had a problem. that is why this discussion is not going to continue. i do not want us to sit by and watch the decline of european values without doing something about it. mr orbán, you know very well that we have been in constant discussions with you since 2010. 2011, 2012, 2013, 2015, 2017 we have continuously tried to engage in a constructive dialogue with you. it didn't work. it must be said clearly: you represent today the most corrupt system in the european union. we regret that, but it is true. why is there a problem with over... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) if you are able to read, read the olaf report. this is precisely the point of the fact that over 30% of the tenders have only one bidder, that mr orbán's relatives play a special role in this, that his son-in-law benefits from this system in particular. i would like to repeat that mr orbán, you personally stand for the most corrupt system currently in existence in the european union, and that must come to an end, ladies and gentlemen! (applause from the centre) we believe that freedom of the press and freedom of expression must not be suppressed any further in your country. we want hungary to return to the path of european values. i can only appeal to my colleagues in the european people's party - i hear there will be a debate on the voting list tonight - to vote for europe and not for mr orbán's corrupt system. we have now heard from three representatives of the european people's party, mr orbán, we have heard from the council representative of the european people's party, and we have heard from mr weber, from whom i personally gather that he wants to stand up for european values. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. i would like to ask that very much, and that is how we shall deal with it. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. mr orbán, what are you doing? the way in which minorities are treated reflects a government's attitude to democracy, the rule of law and human dignity. these three pillars are essential to the existence of a peaceful europe. true peace comes only through acceptance of differences. the european union's motto is not without reason: united in diversity. but the roma, hungarian citizens, in particular, are subject to institutional anti-gypsyism, segregation in the education system and discrimination by the state and non-state actors in your country, mr orbán. mr orbán, please take up your historic responsibility towards your national minorities, so that hungary can perhaps become a model of the rule of law, democracy and the protection of the dignity of all people! citizens of hungary! you are strong! so stand up against right-wing extremism! let us build a europe of justice, where racism has no place!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is the incredible request of this parliament to have hungary deprived of its voting rights in the council. ladies and gentlemen, i think today will go down in history. we have already seen the decline of social democracy throughout europe. that's what happens when an elite functionary caste makes policies against their own clientele. today marks the end of european christian democracy. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr orbán, for his excellent report, and i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr orbán, for his excellent report. but i ask you to continue to do so, for the sake of the citizens of europe. the christian democrats will follow the social democrats into the abyss. from 2019 onwards, this will be reflected in this house and its coalitions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i can assure you that many millions of people in my native germany are behind you and your policy of defending conservative and liberal european values. do not let the pseudo-moral hypocrisy of this house distract you from your right course, no matter what is decided here tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the report shows very clearly the developments in hungary: away from the basic values of democracy, the rule of law, freedom of the press and of expression, towards an illiberal democracy, as you yourself, mr orbán, call it. but this kind of thinking is divisive, it sows discord. the state is suspicious of its own citizens, first of minorities, and then of all people. mr orbán, you personally support this development towards a totalitarian autocracy. and that is precisely what i, as a free democrat, do not want, and that is why it is my duty to raise my voice here as well. but it is also my duty to speak out against those who seek to join forces with you, such as the csu, seehofer and söder. i do not want, for example, a government in bavaria that is fond of illiberal democracy. i therefore call very clearly on the epp and, in particular, on the csu to make a very clear commitment to the values of freedom in europe and to make a clear statement against illiberal democracy.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, commissioner and vice-president of the european commission! we have all had intensive discussions, but what is the point of this reform that we are going to vote on tomorrow? the first is that we want to prevent the exploitation of our european artists, which is still taking place on the internet. we are talking about big tech companies that have been making huge profits for years from the work of our european artists and our european creatives. and that's something that i would say we shouldn't tolerate any longer. we have now, after the mandate was rejected before the summer break, the opportunity once again to stand by the european creatives and not to look for any excuses and excuses all the time, how we can actually bring the big tech companies back there. i think we should start by standing up for our artists and protecting our values here, too. it is not just a question of how to make a profit. the question of europe's self-assertion is also at stake here. it's also about how we actually transfer the property that we think is so normal to protect in our online or offline world to a digital world, and that these parameters don't shift accordingly here. it's about taking responsibility for content on a platform. this is new. we have not asked the platforms to do this before. but after the e-commerce policy that was formulated at the beginning of the millennium, when platforms were playing a very different role, there's now a development where we have to identify massive copyright infringements and where we should just act now to create a better balance between the artists and their works and the platforms. it is always a question of cultural theft. we europeans can be proud of the fact that we can create so much content, that we are creative, and we should support this as the european parliament. it's not about destroying the internet, as it was somehow colported by this big campaign this summer. it's not about preventing someone from uploading their work, and it's not about preventing any future dimensions. nobody in this house wants to destroy anything. no one in this house wants to stop anything. but we should start thinking now about the other side of this question. what's the problem with wanting to avoid copyright infringement? what's the problem with wanting a fair wage for journalists, publishers and artists? and what's the point of big platforms taking more responsibility, including for the rights that apply? we will have to regulate the responsibility of the platforms in the future anyway. let's start with the copyright. i think that would be a wonderful signal to all our european creatives. that's why i'm asking you to participate constructively.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, copyright law is complex and, when it comes to tomorrow’s vote, all of you have been getting mixed messages, and there is a reason for that. the problems that the rapporteur, mr voss, wants to solve are serious, but they are not, in large part, problems caused by copyright law. copyright law cannot bring back lost newspaper subscriptions and it cannot bring back lost advertising revenues. if that’s the problem we want to solve, we need the commission to bring in online advertising regulation, because this is how tech companies are threatening to destroy the news business. the truth is that news articles are already protected by copyright, and if platforms use them without paying they are already breaking the law. our alternative proposal will allow publishers to enforce that law without limiting the freedom to link. the neighbouring right, on the other hand, has been tried and has failed before. simply wishing it will work this time around is not a solution. it is time that we turned the discussion away from what we would like the proposals to do, towards what they will actually do. if we make platforms directly liable for everything, they won’t get a licence from every rightholder in the world. even if they could find all the rightholders, if just one of them refused a licence, the platforms would have to filter. mr cavada may deny that, or say that these filters will only block legal content, but simply wishing that automatic filters can do that is not going to make it true. until algorithms are smart enough to have a sense of humour, then they won’t know the difference between a parody and a copyright infringement. they would simply block both. if we want youtube or facebook to pay creators, let’s write that into the law, as many of the alternative amendments from the left side of the house actually do. upload filters will just give youtube and facebook an excuse not to pay. instead, they will sell their filters to small european platforms, a danger that even the united nations special rapporteur for freedom of expression had called by its name: censorship. the proposals may be well intended, but they suffer from a reality gap. we have to stick to what copyright law can do to support creators without trying to bend it to solve other problems and without threatening fundamental rights. that is what the amendments i have tabled do. they are not what big tech wants and they are certainly not the pirate party position. they are the proposals by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and by the previous ppe rapporteur, and they are 100% supported by europe’s leading copyright academics. please vote for them so that we can preserve the positive parts of this directive that will actually help creators.
mr president, commissioner, vice-president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. why are we revising copyright? because digitalisation has changed the framework. our goal must be to empower our creatives - the musicians, the journalists, the artists, the authors, the filmmakers and many more - over the internet platform operators who mostly use our creatives' works for free. we want to prevent the sale of our creativity, the sale of our european culture. how do we do that? we need a copyright for our publishers so they can negotiate on equal terms with the american platform operators. and we also need to hold accountable the platform operators who are building their business models on the backs of our creatives. that's all it is. nobody wants to censor the internet, as is constantly claimed. no one wants to stop linking, no one wants to tax links. there has been a lot of very, very untrue things said in this debate. it is important to us that this is about our european culture and our european creative industries. i would ask all members to support the balanced proposals that our rapporteur, mr axel voss, has been working on for many, many months. we need this new set of rules so that we can put our creatives in a position to stand out in the digital age.
mr president, the voss amendments represent a balanced approach. i would like to remind you that the artists who talked to us want us to vote in favour because they are pleased. so now the question is: are the consumers pleased? what do the consumers get? legal certainty. what we are doing is to make digital platforms – involving the most powerful and richest monopolies we have ever had on the globe – take care of the payment of artists by concluding contracts with collective management organisations. we have it in the analogue world, we want to have it in digital. consumers are not being placed under threat. filters are out in the voss amendments, so there is no censorship, there is no filtering, and political censorship is really a very different thing. have a look at china and saudi arabia, they filter content according to political ideas. what this proposal is about is to make very rich companies socially respectful. and, on the question of freedom, if we have an unlimited concept of freedom that’s very neoliberal, then only the bigger ones win. what i want to do with this copyright reform is to combine responsibility and freedom, and that is the balanced approach. it’s not against consumers, it’s in favour of consumers’ legal certainty and in favour of fair payment. as in seeking to regulate uber, when the socialists wanted, for good reasons, to ensure that workers were paid, we want cultural workers to be paid as well.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. copyright is a property right, and that is of course something that must be protected. but, ladies and gentlemen, when we're discussing that google, youtube, facebook and whatever they're called, have too much power, that they're exploiting the artists, they're exploiting the creatives, the moment we give them the political mandate to censor, we're overlooking that just because google, youtube and facebook censor, it's still censorship. when algorithms determine freedom of speech, when it ultimately turns out that the rule of law is being eliminated by private corporations - which are actually gaining power - then neither the users win, nor even the creatives win, but at most the big publishers or the big music labels win in relation to the big internet corporations. but it is the little ones who are being left behind, and that is the old disease of the european union. you always take care of the big ones, you always take care of the medium ones, but the small ones, they always fall through the cracks. and that's what's happening in this case, unfortunately.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the reform of copyright must strike a fair balance between different interests. i am particularly concerned about the interests of artists and users. we should not allow ourselves to be exploited in a dispute which is only about a dispute between the old recycling industry and the new recycling industry. the most controversial are articles 11 and 13. neither of these is helping to improve the living conditions of artists. i see, however, considerable risks to freedom of expression and information. article 11 is only intended to provide new sources of revenue for the old recycling industry. that cannot be our task as parliamentarians. article 13 still means that private platforms will ultimately use upload filters. private actors thus decide by means of pre-filtering which content may be uploaded. i think that is disproportionate. the risk of censorship by algorithms is therefore very high.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the rapporteur's proposals, in their present form, would unfortunately result in a general filtering obligation. we can't have that. today, this infrastructure may be about an illegal piece of music, tomorrow it may be about an unpopular opinion. we have to stop that. i want to see a fair balance between the interests of the creative people and the interests of the users, and we have to get that balance. i want active platforms to pay creative people. but i don't want algorithms deciding what's online and what's not. i have therefore made some suggestions myself. the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to accept them. i would like to ask you to take advantage of this opportunity which you have until tomorrow so that there is a majority for this important directive tomorrow.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the members of the european parliament for this interesting debate. it is very evident that there is a clear consensus about the need to modernise the european copyright framework. reform of copyright is extremely difficult to do, we all know this. there are so many interests to reconcile and the rules have a direct impact on the everyday lives of our citizens. it is good to remind ourselves that this directive is important for the many reasons that were mentioned before. european citizens care about this directive in a very direct way. we saw this when the commission worked on its proposal and we have seen it leading up to this debate and votes. clearly we need to give europeans the right kind of copyright laws for the digital age. they deserve nothing less and it is achievable. this is very clear to us after this debate. as mentioned before, none of the proposals now on the table will destroy the internet nor the freedom of speech. none of the proposals will restrain our citizens from expressing themselves or sharing their ideas with others. more specifically, rest assured that article 11 will not limit access to information. on the contrary, it will ensure the survival of a quality press in the digital age. as for article 13, i think we are only aiming at a targeted and balanced intervention, to make sure that the european creative industry can get a fair share of the value generated by its content, which is nowadays mainly used online. after today’s debate i’m encouraged that all eu institutions share the common objective of ensuring a fair and thriving copyright environment in europe. this directive is a one—of—a—kind opportunity to adopt copyright rules to the digital age. if we fail to start trilogue negotiations, the directive may be pushed back several years. in this case, in the short term, there will be only one winner – large platforms – no one else, not the creators and artists, not the citizens, not the researchers, not the teachers, not even start—ups or smaller platforms will win, and in the end not even bigger platforms win from fragmentation. this will be a real lose—lose situation. we are committed to assisting the co—legislators in the trilogue negotiations to ensure that a balanced proposal is adopted. thank you president, thank you mr voss and the shadow rapporteurs, and thank you honourable members.
i'm the reporter. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. why not the text of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection? i would like to make this clear in a few words: because we have a legal situation here dealing with passive platforms, which cannot simply be extended to active platforms, and the case law is much more advanced in this respect. there's a ugc exception that undermines the whole law there, and in the current legal situation, we're just one step ahead. why not the alde proposal? the alde proposal would cement the copyright infringement in the first upload and then move on to filtering it out again. this too falls short of the current legal situation. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why my proposals - as mr wölken said - no longer contain any filters. i have proposed a procedure whereby the parties concerned can come together to find a gentle way of moving forward without violating fundamental rights, without excluding the exceptions, in order to find practical solutions, because i do not think we will be able to do anything sensible here in the house. and this proposal also includes filters. so the most sensible thing to do would be to bring everybody together and say, let's develop something there so that it doesn't get too difficult. we have strong rights for the individuals, we take their liability, even though they are actually committing the copyright infringement. and we have a clear journalistic participation, also in article 11, so i think everyone can agree with this voss proposal. please walk this path with me so that we can move forward in europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 12 september 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on 'autonomous weapons systems' (2018/2752 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, as the eu is being called upon to shoulder more responsibility as an actor in the security field, it is also very important that on all the issues that we are confronted with we clearly make visible to our citizens and everybody else that we will do that according to our own principles, and that is why we need a ban on killer robots. we believe that the use of these kinds of weapons, which select and attack a target without meaningful human control, would dramatically change the world we live in, and it is quite obvious that the use of such weapons, if they existed, could most probably not be limited just to state actors. therefore, we want the eu to come up with a common position in november in favour of a legally binding ban on killer robots.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not in 2014, this parliament adopted a joint resolution calling for a ban on the development, production and use of fully autonomous weapons. how could it be that the negotiator of the same house, the same parliament, disregarded this majority will and now the negotiations between the council, the ep and the commission have resulted in autonomous weapons systems being supported by european taxpayers in the eu arms programme? the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's arms industry is not left behind. this is a scandal and it must be undone. the resolution now before us is all the more important, since it calls unequivocally for an international ban on the development and production of lethal autonomous weapons systems. there is no moral or international legitimacy for weapons that kill people without a court order, deliberately and treacherously. a weapon machine makes decisions about life or death for people? the thresholds for violent intervention will continue to fall. it will set in motion a new arms race and become a bomb-dealing for the arms industry. the only thing that anyone who defends human rights and humanism can do is to call for a total ban on these weapons.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the development of artificial intelligence is taking over more and more areas of life. what you might find useful in the civilian realm, in your private life, is, if you think about it in terms of these killer robots, as they've been described, of course, terrifying. the result must be to prevent weapons from becoming independent and thus a threat to humanity. i therefore agree with the approach proposed by the high representative. she's got experts on it. we are also asking them to work towards the elaboration and adoption of a common position by the member states and the council. i believe that this is the way in which we can ensure legal certainty, but also a common political approach to this challenge and how we can find a good position together - also with this resolution.
mr president, the honourable member is right. the failure of the geneva negotiations on autonomous weapons systems at the beginning of september has once again shown how important it is for the eu to speak with one voice here. i too call for an international ban on fully autonomous weapons which can decide for themselves whether they are to live or die. the international condemnation of chemical weapons should serve as both a warning and an incentive. we must not allow the production, export and use of autonomous weapons, which can kill without human decision and also get out of control. this is also what the spd in the european parliament is calling for in its recently adopted core thesis paper on european security and defence policy. the development of autonomous weapons systems, which has already begun, must therefore be stopped urgently. we must prevent technologies from entering markets where human rights law does not apply and where they raise unanswered moral and ethical issues. i therefore welcome the fact that the european parliament is already speaking out against the funding of such weapons systems through the european defence fund.
vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first of all let me thank you, as i said at the beginning, for putting this issue on the agenda, but also for the clear indication of all of you to the need to continue this work and to engage in this dialogue we have started already, in particular with industry and researchers, but also civil society organisations, to first and foremost better understand what we’re talking about, because i think we all have more questions than answers in discussing issues that can have very complicated technical implications, that can themselves have very complicated impacts on the political decisions that need to be taken. so i think that here the core issue is to keep at the centre of the debate human control and human responsibility for whatever affects the lives and deaths of human beings. the very definition of lethal autonomous weapons is not fully clear yet, and this is why we should define the key element of human control. sound technical work here is key to getting the political decisions right, also because we are discussing a new frontier, so at the time we are discussing the norms and the regulations and the legal framework for all of this, we need to be sure that we are discussing the right things that will come. this discussion is i believe crucial, even if at the moment there is no agreement at this stage on regulatory measures, which could include a legally—binding instrument or a political declaration. i think that the right approach here is to first of all focus on the content of what we need to achieve and then, i believe, the forum and the consensus on the instrument, i hope, will come. if the discussion on the forum takes the lead, we might end up with an empty instrument that is not supported by the most relevant actors, and that in itself would be a problem. so when we talk about non—proliferation and arms control – as i said this is the new frontier – you can count on my full commitment to make sure the european union, together with the member states, all of them, works on this in a united, meaningful and substantial manner and, obviously, in doing that we will take into full consideration the positions expressed by this parliament. thank you again for having this conversation going among policymakers and the expert community. i’m sure this will not be the last time we discuss this issue and i am fully committed to continuing this work together. (applause)
in accordance with rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure, seven motions for resolutions have been tabled. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 12 september 2018.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr elmar brok, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the state of eu-us relations (2017/2271 (ini)) (a8-0251/2018).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. today is september 11, the anniversary of september 11, 2001, when 3,000 people died in the terrorist attacks. but it is also the day that led europe to show solidarity with the united states of america. the only time article 5 of the nato treaty has been invoked is on this issue. and that is why european soldiers are still in afghanistan today. that is, when president trump says that the european union was created to harm america, we prove the opposite every day. and historically, it's wrong anyway. we should make it clear that we are continuing this solidarity, but we also expect solidarity from the united states, and not build it in such a way that it is no longer a partnership but rather a vassal state. those who do not mate are subject to sanctions or indirectly to extraterritorial measures. it is the ally, even in trade matters, that follows american policy, and not that it even works in partnership. this is a great danger in view of the world political developments. the west is abandoning a unified global security architecture that includes not only security policy, but also trade policy and much more. that makes china the big winner in this game. and that's what's going to make the values of the west in this world weaker if we don't make connections and collaborations here. i am glad that president juncker has now managed to negotiate to avoid further measures against europe. but that's not all. i think that means that we still need nato for europe's collective territorial security, that we want cooperation, but that also means that we have to be more self-reliant because of the uncertainties in the field of foreign, security and economic policy. i do not know whether the term 'autonomous sovereignty' is correct. but that we are less vulnerable, that we are growing in strength to achieve partnership and to be recognized in it, and that for this reason we have to make clear, when it comes to the 'america first' policy, that we have to become more clear in the security policy area, not just discussing about 2%, 2%, more money for the military without the european measures that create synergies that are related to pesco and these issues, makes little sense. then it becomes a programme to buy american arms in europe, for which this money is being used. i don't think that's going to give us the strength we need to have. i think that the pressure measures that are constantly coming on europe, the measures that are causing people to want to do less with europe than with member states, because you can do more deals with individuals in your own interest, that we need to see that we need a common policy towards africa, that we need to see that the european union has a security strategy that is more comprehensive. we spend far more money from the eu budget alone on civilian external aid than the united states does on gains in stability. if you add the money from the member states, it is enormous: 60% of the world's development aid is given by the european union. what we have done with the enlargement of the european union, what we are doing towards ukraine and other countries, this is all the security policy we are pursuing there, and we must take this into account in order to arrive at a fair burden-sharing. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in other words, we need more unity, more european strength, in order to bring the european union and the united states closer together.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in fact, i think the european union must very clearly reject what president trump is saying. just last week, saying that the european union is as bad as china, only smaller, really doesn't match the facts. we are a fair trading partner of the european union. this fair trading partner does have a trade surplus in goods. but if you look at the balance of services and above all the transfer of profits from europe to the united states, it is almost equal, and there is no fault in that. the good thing is that we are talking again, and that is perhaps the positive aspect of mr trump's conversation with mr juncker. i do not see that there is any substantial progress, however, because the steel and aluminium blockade tariffs are still in force and the threat of tariffs on car and motor vehicle parts is still there. so the basic condition for renegotiating is not yet in place, because these threats are still there. and the second thing i would like to say is that we are going to see if we can make progress at the wto, ladies and gentlemen. i cannot really understand this, because i know that the united states is preventing the appointment of judges to the court of appeal, and in doing so is actually taking away the basis of the crown jewel of the wto, a court of law. so, we have to work on a whole corner so we can really talk to each other again in a proper way. it is clear that we are in favour of a rules-based, multilateral approach, the basis of which is that the rule of law must be accepted and not the rule of the stronger. and that, ladies and gentlemen, is what we must tell our american colleagues in the trade sector.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the united states is our partner and friend. for decades, we have worked together to ensure the security and prosperity of our people, based on shared values and shared mutual trust. multilateralism and structural dialogue have always led to a common position and a common outcome, even when there were differences of opinion. even today in the united states, we find many like-minded people in congress, in the unions, in civil society. but we also learned that it is better to rely on our own strength. but the eu is a strong and independent partner only if we are united, stay united and act together. the president of the united states is still our partner, he is certainly not our friend. the unilateral steps taken in the iran deal, the sending of ambassadors to promote openly right-wing populists, are two examples. and his outright hostile remarks not only damage our cooperation based on multilateralism, they also destroy the trust that has been built up over decades. but once that trust is destroyed, it's not so easy to restore it in a post-trump era. so we're hoping for a strong congress to push this president to his limits after the midterm elections. we want to continue the dialogue and continue our good and successful cooperation. we can do this if we europeans remain united, if we take a clear stand and do not allow ourselves to be blackmailed, and if we work together to find a common line with the united states. we need good ideas, courage and the will to unite. we don't need new beds for that. we have a good mission in washington, we have a good parliamentary office there, and that is really enough.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, today we all remember the horrors of 9/11. we all know that was the point in time when the west started to change fundamentally. the old west that we knew will never come back. that’s not just a problem of this presidency, and that means we will have to enlarge our partnerships beyond. i think we need a new language, a new attitude and more responsibility that we share between ourselves in order to live up to these challenges. the report expresses that perfectly. to be realistic, we need to be principled and pragmatic at the same time, and i do not think that going for a strategic autonomy of the eu is realistic or pragmatic. it’s a pipe dream. we should invest in the relationship, and that is why, together with colleagues, i am proposing to create a dialogue representative for the enhancement of our dialogue with our american friends.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, madam high representative! mr brok, no one has worked so hard for the transatlantic relationship in the last decades as you have. the current developments must be painful and worrying to you, as they are to many citizens today, on september 11th. the eu, like so many other states, is no longer treated as a partner by president trump and his administration. the threat of punitive tariffs on cars has been enough to bring the self-styled trading power of the european union to its knees. trump has won, juncker has capitulated. the opinion of the european parliament is not relevant. negotiations on a trade agreement with the united states are being launched without a mandate. trump's donors have already been bought off by large quantities of liquefied natural gas. president trump wants to show that he is succeeding in the run-up to the election with his america first doctrine in politics and economics, the undermining of legitimate international relations and the rigorous measures to safeguard the dominance of the united states, even against the opinion of so many dissenters. there goes the dollar, two percent of gdp for defense spending in all nato countries... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! i too would like to congratulate mr elmar brok on this comprehensive and very successful report on transatlantic relations. the challenges we face have already been fully articulated by the previous speakers, most notably the high representative. i believe that this is why, and especially now, we as the european union should be guided in our transatlantic relations by three recommendations for action. firstly, the transatlantic relationship is unique because of the historic and strategic partnership and our shared values. we should try to strengthen them at all levels, especially in these times. you are stronger than the current american president. secondly, differences of opinion must be openly discussed. we should be aggressive in defending our values and principles. and thirdly, we really need to take more control of our own destiny. we must be more confident in our foreign, security and defence policies. it is particularly important at this time to strengthen parliamentary cooperation. the report by elmar brok makes an important contribution to this.
i have to say, madam president, first of all, i would like to thank you very much for the report and to say that i support its political line in principle. the important meeting between trump and juncker in washington is not yet adequately reflected in the report. but that was very recent. i think that the commission should be able to take the necessary steps to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted. it should be made clearer that the eu-us trade relationship is the most comprehensive in the world and has a history of success spanning more than half a century. it should be made clear that the eu needs to develop a common approach to issues of future trade relations with the us and that a new customs agreement needs to be reconsidered. and thirdly, efforts to stabilise and reform the wto cannot be undertaken without the participation of the united states, which remains essential to the world trade order.
madam president, dear colleagues, dear high representative, i’m looking at these issues especially as a spokesperson for security and defence from the ppe group, and in this specific policy area, it is so obvious that the us is and will remain an indispensable partner. it would not be in our interest to have short-term considerations in this regard and we are not financially or politically able to support, alternatively, the defence commitments that the us is currently undertaking inside europe. that is why we also have to work together as the european union towards achieving these 2% goals. i would like to make it very clear – we are aiming at the 2% goals not because of mr trump or, earlier, mr obama, but because of mr putin, that is the reason why we have this work to do and that is a message that we should also convey.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i agree with most of you and i will try to summarise in three or four points what seem to me to be the guidelines of our common work in our partnership with the united states. first of all, the need from our side to be clear and consistent and i would say, simple, on what unites us across the atlantic. actually, no, i think we should even rethink the way in which we call this because ‘across the atlantic’ also covers partners that have nothing to do with the united states. think of canada, think of mexico and latin america: that is also ‘across the atlantic’ in a different manner. so we need to be clear and consistent on what unites us and the united states, and on the eu positions and policies on all the issues where these positions diverge with the united states, in a very clear, realistic manner. i think this is a good basis for having what some of you called a ‘principled and pragmatic approach’ to keeping a strong partnership with the united states. secondly, i very much agree with all of you who said that our relationship with the united states can only benefit from a strong investment in a stronger european union. a bolder, stronger european union is good for itself, it is good for building other kinds of partnerships, and i very much agree that this is what we need to focus on now. as we keep working on the partnership with the united states we also need to differentiate and become a strong point of reference for all those around the world that are still looking for a strong partner on multilateralism and other things: free and fair trade, human rights – the list could continue. but i think that history tells us that we need to be extremely serious as regards ourselves, the european union, and how to strengthen our own means, be it on defence, be it on trade, be it on foreign policy, and the list can continue. this is an opportunity for us somehow. i do not want to comment on the issue of ‘america first’. america first can mean america first but not alone. it can also mean america alone. this is subject to different interpretations even within the administration or within the political debate in what is a very rich and lively democracy, but i think what we should focus upon is not so much ‘america first’ as ‘strong europe’. this is what is required from us and especially from decision-makers in the european union today. how do we make our european union stronger in this kind of context? i think that it is important for us to be extremely clear and bold within the european union too about our principles, values and interests, and be consistent on the way to uphold them. last but not least, let me thank all the house, and in particular those of you who have been working intensely over these years on your constant contacts with your us counterparts in congress. this will continue to be essential in the last months of your mandate, so i would like to ask you to keep this work going, even if most of you will be engaged in the electoral campaign. these months are crucial for parliamentary work to be continued between you and your colleagues in the us congress, and i can only hope that the next parliament will be as engaged as you have been in this fight. i would like to finish by thanking once again elmar brok for an excellent report.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. thank you very much for the debate. viktor orbán is in our group, and that is why i have always been running around, because we have an important decision to make, as we all know. i want to thank you for your broad support. i would like to point out that despite trump, the united states is a democracy with checks and balances. that's the difference between china and russia. we must not lose sight of this in all our evaluations, and we must build on it. we must make it clear that we mean the whole of the united states, with which we must work more closely. we must also use new instruments, some of which have been mentioned, and the proposal for a european-american council of foreign ministers, to be chaired by mrs mogherini. i would also like to mention john mccain. john mccain was a man who did not always take a position that we liked, but he was a man of western values. he was a man of american-european friendship. he was a man who was clearly convinced of western values. for example, he was for democracy and the rule of law, and against torture. so we should praise him in this way and, because of this moment, recognize that the global order should be influenced by the democracies of this world, which means that the europeans and the americans have to work closely together. it is not just a matter of facts in certain cases, and interest in trade treaties: it is about the overall values which should run this world, and that requires cooperation between the united states and europe. the task should not be left to others because then democratic values the values of a truly civilized society would have no chance in this world, as i see when i look to moscow or beijing.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the situation of refugees and migrants in libya is a disaster. the guards of the internment camps have fled because of the fighting. we've got reports of starving and abducted. unhcr staff report the worst abuses. the libyan coast guard in tripoli has disbanded. the only patrol ships leaving from the city of chums. doctors without borders reports 100 drownings on september 2 alone. the unhcr warns against returning migrants to libya and is very critical of the establishment of reception centres in libya. the international organisation for migration is asking for 4,000 evacuation sites in the eu. and so i ask you very specifically, mrs mogherini, do you have commitments from member states to take in evacuees? will cooperation with the remaining libyan coastguard be terminated to prevent refugees from being returned to libya? and finally, what action are you taking or is the eu taking to ensure that there is a civilian sea rescue?
i have to say, madam president, i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. europe has a great advantage in the global situation, historically, economically, climatically and in many other ways. but libya as a reliable partner, some will ask? we must act together as the european union and you, commissioner mogherini, may be a valuable mediator. the cooperation of the member states is very important here. we must share responsibility responsibility after having benefited immensely as europe. commodities are only a very small part of it. now, if we're talking about an emergency, part of it could be our emergency center. today it is libya. the real need is probably much greater. a plan, a plan for the future: responsibility creates a whole new partnership. how can libya experience us europeans as partners, free of strategic military objectives, free of exploitation, free of demands that never again allow libya to find an independent security? libya as a first step against the great need of the world.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i might take a few minutes more at the beginning but i promise i’ll be brief in my concluding remarks. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr belder, for a very balanced report which accurately reflects the state of eu-china relations and the key issues at stake. and thank you too, mr belder, for your work to find a broad consensus on such a strategic issue for europe – one which in the past has been more divisive. this is a major achievement. i’m also glad to see that the report echoes the eu strategy for relations with china that we adopted two years ago and i am very satisfied with the work you’ve been doing with our delegation in beijing and with all our teams working in china and with china. the european union and china are two of the great powers of the world of today and we don’t always see eye to eye. on the contrary, we have some fundamental disagreements. they are very evident. but, as two global powers, we both understand that our cooperation is essential to address the main challenges we face. if we want to preserve the multilateral system and make it more effective, engagement with china is an absolute must. and i have to say i’ve seen, in the past six or seven months, very strong engagement from the chinese side, and also from the european side, which i have been able to channel, working increasingly in the multilateral framework on global issues in general terms. in recent years, china has become much more active on the global stage and china looks to the european union as a partner on many issues where our interests converge. our cooperation is already intense on most foreign policy matters: we’re working together to preserve the nuclear deal with iran; we both support the ongoing negotiations towards a reconciled and denuclearised korean peninsula; we both want to see peace in afghanistan and we are both actively supporting the afghan government’s efforts to bring forward the peace process. as you can tell from these examples, china sees the european union now not just as a huge market and an investor, not just an economic player – the traditional view – but also increasingly as a global political player and a global security provider. our security cooperation is getting stronger in various parts of the world. for instance, we cooperate on the ground in mali and in somalia, where we are both present with our security personnel. we work together in various parts of the world global issues, particularly in the un framework. this summer, at the eu-china summit, we agreed a very substantial and ambitious statement on climate change, for instance. we have agreed to step up our cooperation to reduce emissions and implement the paris agreement. but even when our starting point is not the same, there is still room for working together and building win-win solutions. take investment in africa as an example. as you know, whenever we europeans bring new investment to africa we always bear in mind the sustainable development goals. we want european investment to create quality jobs, to increase peace, stability and good governance in human rights, and to focus in particular on opportunities for women and youth. everybody knows that china is already a major player in africa. our approach is not the same, but if we want to promote sustainable development and sustainable security in africa, engagement with china is key to achieving results on the ground. even if we come from different starting points we can explore the possibilities for trilateral cooperation among europe, china and africa and find common fields of work that are beneficial for all. another good example is the ‘one belt, one road’ initiative. i believe we must not be afraid to engage with china, creating synergies between their initiative and our projects on connectivity. we believe that big infrastructure projects should, first of all, create opportunities and jobs in all the countries along the new silk road, and that these projects should be about sustainable development for local communities and not about crafting new spheres of influence. only if we engage together with china can we make our interests, our goals, our vision and our connectivity converge. both the european union and china are part of the world’s economic g3, together with the usa. the choice ahead of us is straightforward. we could choose a conflictual approach, going for trade wars that would hurt everyone, or we can work together with china to make the global economic system more just and fair. we have a number of disagreements with china when it comes to trade – and i believe you have had the chance to discuss them at length, not only with me but also with commissioner malmström – ranging from the issue of over-capacity to intellectual property. our choice is clear. we want to deal with these issues within the framework of a rules-based international system. we want our trade with china to be based on reciprocity and to be free and fair. this is the only way to achieve a solution that benefits both europe and china, instead of going for a lose—lose trade conflict. definitely we should go for the win—win solution, avoiding any scenario of a lose—lose confrontation. i believe we share the same approach here with china now on the need to find, or to build, cooperative win—win solutions and approaches, rather than entering on, or fuelling, the conflictual trends we are seeing. dialogue and engagement are the best way forward for us, not just on trade but on all issues, when we disagree with china. i could mention – as you yourself – the situation in the south china sea, or restrictions to freedom of expression in hong kong, and we regret that the dialogue with taiwan has been frozen for the past three years. of course, the most outstanding disagreement we have with china concerns the human rights situation in china as underlined in your report. during the last eu-china human rights dialogue we spoke up against the recent restrictions on freedom of religion, on minorities’ rights and on freedom of association and expression. we raised our position against the death penalty, as we always do with all countries that still have that penalty, and we discussed the impartiality of the justice system. we also focused on the situation in xinjiang, especially the expansion of political re-education camps, and we discussed the detention of human rights defenders, including particular cases. we know that the chinese government does not share all our principles and values and they know that we are in different places in some issues. it is also very clear that we will not sacrifice our values in the name of ‘real politics’: we are always very clear on that. on the contrary, we will continue to engage with china precisely to advance our values and our interests, because europe and china recognise and understand each other’s importance in shaping a more cooperative global order. i would say that this, in a nutshell, describes the state of play of our relations with china today. we recognise each other as fundamental key players on the global stage of today’s world. we know that, at this moment in world history, cooperation and engagement are simply the smartest choice and that, on some global and also some regional issues, if the european union and china work together, this makes the difference in the world. your report, mr belder, rightly points out that china is a complex partner, and our engagement takes different forms on different issues, but we should not be afraid of a more proactive and a more confident china. the chinese look at europe as a global power, and our dialogue can help the world to move beyond the current chaos towards a better global order. it is a dialogue based on clarity, on respect, and on our interests and values, and it can be one that benefits both europe and china, as well as the rest of the world. i am glad this is also the spirit of your report, mr belder, and i’m glad that you built such consensus on what is a crucial issue for the present and the future of our continent.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. madam president, high representative mogherini, ladies and gentlemen, the european union is not a party to the conflict. i am convinced that a strategic partnership with china is necessary, indeed the prerequisite for us to achieve the goals of the paris agreement on climate change, after president trump has cancelled the agreement out of stupidity and pure profit-making. china and europe must now work together even more closely to curb climate-damaging greenhouse gas emissions, but also to stimulate international trade and international research. there is also a shared responsibility in implementing the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and conserving natural resources. china's commitment to this responsibility is reflected in the concept of ecological civilization recently adopted by the national people's congress. i expect europe and china, despite all the differences in political systems, to be moving together to tackle the great problems facing our planet. europe will benefit from china and china from europe. china may be a red dragon, but it's a more peaceful one. it's certainly not the so-called yellow peril. and president xi jinping is also likely to be more reliable than the infantile climate denier trump.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. mrs mogherini, this is the second report by parliament on eu-china relations. this shows that we attach greater importance to this subject, and i would like to thank mr belder and the other shadow rapporteurs. we have in fact reached 27 compromises, and there are no amendments in the plenary. so, this house has broad agreement on how we see china and how we develop our relationship with china. we have a strategic partnership with china, and of course you have to define what that means. are these just words, or does it have practical value? and the eu must ask itself: what are the areas in which we can also exercise this strategy with china? it 's been said here before: we are doing very well on climate change, and we are doing very well on some peace initiatives. china has launched a number of initiatives where the eu is lagging behind. mrs mogherini, you mentioned the silk road or the gigantic investment programme in africa. we don't really have an answer to that yet. i'd ask you how we're dealing with it. we complain about the silk road, that it's a one-sided chinese project. how can we as europe get there? and on africa, i read in the global times, the english edition of china's official newspaper, that europeans are doing the education and training of africans and china is doing the infrastructure projects. so we do not want that division of labour. and we need to commit china to international standards, including the sustainable development goals, which they signed up to. and there's the question of whether we have dialogue and whether there are signs that china is getting involved. well, the economy is still the heart of our cooperation. in fact, we also have to protect ourselves where necessary because there are unfair conditions. i would also mention the internet and innovation. we see all kinds of discrimination. we cannot accept that either, because we have to speak a harsh language. finally, the 19th party congress has developed a model that competes with our model of liberal democracy. and democracies really need to arm themselves against this export of authoritarian structures from china.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am disappointed by what ms mogherini said. the language that the report speaks is completely different from the language you spoke, ms mogherini. you are sweet-talking china. you say there is a confident china. i see an overbearing china. you say the taiwan dialogue has been frozen. i see the efforts from the chinese side to strangle taiwan. you say china does not share all our principles. in reality, china rejects completely all of our sacred principles. you say we share the same approach and china is not fuelling conflictual trends. i see china fuelling so many conflictual trends. i do not know which china you are talking about. i think we should be speaking clearly and it would be nice to do so by starting to demand from china that they start pursuing a ‘one eu’ policy.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. nearly 47 years ago, the world was astonished when, after years of no communication, richard nixon suddenly traveled to beijing. the united states wanted china as a partner in the fight against russia. in return, they were willing to make economic concessions. none of that constellation survives today. if china is prosperous and has a major influence on all world economic processes, this is, after the social catastrophe of the cultural revolution, the most self-determined way of guaranteeing social and economic progress to its population, which accounts for almost one fifth of the world's population. but this has implications for the whole world - for the economy, the environment, peace, resource use, international coexistence and democratic constitution both internally and externally - and requires the political positions of all other partners. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. for the european union - and i took that from your words, ms mogherini - it is crucial that we continue to stick to the approach we have taken so far, to work with china in partnership on rules-based solutions to common challenges. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. the eu should not be tempted to barter with third parties, for example on trade. this is a matter of great concern to the citizens.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am very pleased that at exactly half past twelve o'clock in the morning two commissioners and their teams are with us and are rejoicing with us that our colleague ignazio corraro and also we, the shadow rapporteurs - i see ana gomes and my colleague joly - have succeeded in taking a very good step towards the criminal fight against money laundering. it was not an easy task, because the member states have really been extremely heterogeneous in their approach. it is still not quite as far as we might imagine, but we have made significant progress. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur very warmly on the fact that we have succeeded, for example, in achieving some exceptions to the double criminality requirement - something which was really more than questionable before, because the member states were very much against it. we have, after all, been able to achieve exceptions in at least six areas. i think it is very important that in future, when we hear about money laundering, we do not have to face prosecutors who tell us that in almost 95% of cases money laundering does not end up in court and cannot be punished. i hope that this joint harmonization will lead to much more progress in the investigation and actual punishment of money launderers, especially since this is a very important element for networks in both the field of terrorism and the field of organised crime.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the members for their engagement on this subject, including at this late hour. it hasn’t quite struck midnight yet. preventing terrorists gaining access to funding is, as has been said, a key security consideration, but more widely, the strengthened criminal response to money laundering helps counter the financial incentives that drive a whole range of serious criminal activity. it goes along with the proposal on controls on cash entering or leaving the eu that you were discussing just before this item. we very much welcome and support the new directive. we think that the rules on the definition of criminal offences and sanctions are an important step forward. we think the establishment of corporate liability for money laundering in certain circumstances and the specific sanctions are a key strengthening of our panoply of instruments for fighting this challenge. we welcome the fact that we have been able to find various compromises in discussion. i think the compromise on the issue of double criminality follows a clear logic and will make the eu more robust against money laundering. likewise, the agreement on aggravating circumstances, proposed by this house, for example, cases concerning property of significant value or that relate to certain serious crimes, which are now going to be punished more severely. the potential risks posed by virtual currencies and politically-exposed people have been properly highlighted, and the commission will continue to play close attention to those risks. ultimately, the agreed text ensures that the laundering of proceeds of tax crimes will be criminalised in each member state. moreover, as has already been stressed, it ensures that differences in the definition of tax crimes from member state to member state will not be allowed to hamper cooperation between national authorities. overall, the new directive is an important part of our comprehensive approach to tackling money laundering and terrorist financing. we will now consider the impact of the measures introduced under the 2016 action plan on terrorist financing and, based on the assessment, the commission will make further proposals as necessary. thank you again for the contribution of all those involved in this work, in particular the rapporteur and his shadows. we look forward to a positive outcome to tomorrow’s vote.
president of the commission. mr president, madam president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes history moves forward with discretion and in a few steps and then leaves quickly. this is the case when it comes to the action of a commission, which has only a five-year mandate to change things once and for all. but in such a short time, we cannot change things permanently. the present commission, like its predecessors, is an episode, a brief moment in the long history of the european union. the time has not yet come for the final report of the commission i chair, so i will not be presenting to you today a report of what we have been able to do over the past four years. on the contrary, i tell you that the work will continue in the coming months to make the imperfect european union a more perfect european union every day. there are still things to be done, and that's what i want to talk to you about this morning. no complacency, no bulging torso, modesty and work, that is the attitude the commission will adopt, that is our agenda for the months ahead. sometimes history, history in the true sense of the word, comes into the life of nations without warning, and is slow to leave. this was the case at the time of the great war, which in 1914 took the continent by surprise, so it was sunny, calm, peaceful, optimistic year 1913. in 1913, europeans expected to live in lasting peace, yet the next year a fratricidal war broke out in europe. i am referring to this period, not that i believe we are on the verge of a new catastrophe in europe. the european union is a guarantor of peace. let us be glad to live on a continent of peace, a continent which is at peace thanks to the european union. (applause) i would like to thank let us therefore respect the european union more, let us not tarnish its image, let us defend our way of being and our way of life, let us say yes to patriotism that is not directed against others, let us say no to superficial nationalism that rejects and hates others, that destroys, that looks for culprits instead of looking for solutions that allow us to live better together. (applause) i would like to thank the founding pact of the european union, "never again war", remains a burning demand, a burning obligation of vigilance that is imposed on us and around us. ladies and gentlemen, what is the state of the european union today, in 2018? ten years after lehman brothers, europe has largely turned the page on the economic and financial crisis, which came to us from elsewhere and which often struck us in a very brutal way. the european union has been growing uninterruptedly for 21 quarters. employment is picking up with almost 12 million jobs created since 2014. twelve million jobs, that's more than the population of belgium. never before have so many people - 239 million men and women - been in work in europe. youth unemployment stands at 14.8%, which is still too high but at its lowest level since 2000. investment is back in europe, thanks in particular to our european fund for strategic investments, which some, increasingly rare, continue to call the juncker plan, a plan that has generated €335 billion of public and private investment, and we are on our way to €400 billion. and then there is greece. after years - it must be said - of pain, after unprecedentedly serious social problems, greece has managed to complete its programme and to get back on its feet. i welcome once again the herculean efforts of the greek people, efforts which other europeans continue to underestimate. (applause) i would like to thank i have always defended - and you know this - greece, its dignity, its role in europe, and in particular its continued membership of the euro area. i am still proud of it.europe has also reaffirmed its status as a trading power. the fact that we are a world trading power is nothing but proof of the need to share our sovereignty. the european union now has trade agreements with 70 countries. together, we account for 40% of global gdp. these agreements - i am talking about trade agreements - which are often, and often wrongly, contested, help us to export to other parts of the world the high european standards in food safety, workers' rights, the environment and consumer rights. when, last july, during a long and dangerous period of international tensions, i went to beijing, tokyo and washington in the same week, i was able to speak, as president of the commission, on behalf of the world's largest single market, on behalf of a union which accounts for one fifth of the world economy, on behalf of a union which is prepared to defend its values and defend its interests. i have represented europe as an open continent, but not as an open one. with the european unity i was able to explain in principle and in detail, i was able to make the voice of the european union heard to achieve concrete results for our citizens and for our businesses. together, we europeans have become a force to be reckoned with. in washington i spoke for europe. some describe the agreement, the arrangement that i was able to get after my negotiations with president trump, as a surprise. but there was no surprise because whenever europe speaks with one voice, there is no surprise. it can, if it wishes and if it speaks with one voice, impose itself on the others. europe must act as one where necessary. we have proved this when we have consistently defended the paris climate agreement, because we europeans want to leave a cleaner planet for future generations. i share the views of our energy commissioner on the co2 reduction targets for 2030. they are scientifically accurate and politically necessary. this summer's droughts have been a brutal reminder, not just to farmers, of the importance of our efforts to ensure the future of future generations. (applause) we can of course ignore the climate challenge and look elsewhere. we, the commission, and you, the parliament, must look to the future. ladies and gentlemen, the world, which is constantly turning, has become more volatile than ever. the external challenges facing our continent are increasing day by day. we cannot therefore relax, even for a second, our efforts to build a more united and stronger europe. europe can export its stability, as we have done with the successive enlargements of our union. i believe that enlargement has been and will continue to be a success because we have succeeded in reconciling european geography and history. but there is still work to be done. (applause) we must definitively define our attitude towards the countries of the western balkans with regard to their accession. otherwise, others will shape our immediate neighbourhood. (applause) let's look around us. what is happening in idlib, syria, at this very moment, must be a matter of deep and immediate concern for all of us. we cannot remain silent in the face of an imminent humanitarian disaster which is, in fact, a predicted disaster. the syrian conflict illustrates how the international order, which europeans have benefited from since the second world war, is increasingly being called into question. in the present world, europe can no longer be sure that the commitments it made yesterday will be kept tomorrow. the alliances of yesterday may not be the alliances of tomorrow. as i said, the world today needs a strong and united europe, a europe which works for peace, trade agreements and stable monetary relations, even if others elsewhere are too inclined to choose trade wars, or even monetary wars. i do not like this unilateralism, which is disrespectful of the expectations and hopes of others. i will always be a staunch multilateralist. (applause) if europe were to become more aware of its political power, of the economic and sometimes military power of its nations, we could abandon the exclusive role of global payer, which we want to remain anyway. we need to become more of a global player. yes, we are global payers, but we have to be global players, too. that is why, despite strong resistance at the time, i relaunched the european defence union in 2014. the commission will therefore continue to work in the coming months to make the european defence fund and the permanent structured cooperation in the field of defence fully operational. (applause) i think it is important to clarify this point: we will not militarize the european union. what we want is to become more responsible and more independent, because only a strong and united europe can protect our citizens from internal and external threats, from terrorism to climate change. only a strong and united europe can preserve jobs in an open and interconnected world. only a strong and united europe can master the challenges of global digitisation. we europeans, because we are the largest single market in the world, can set standards for big data for artificial intelligence, for automation, while defending our values, the rights and the individuality of our citizens. we can only do this if we are united. a strong and united europe enables its member states to achieve great things. it is thanks to our galileo programme that europe is staying in the space race. no member state, no member state, could have put 26 satellites into orbit, which are already used by 400 million users worldwide. no member state could have done this on its own. galileo, yes, is a success. it is a success, first and foremost, if not exclusively, european. without europe, there is no galileo. let's be proud of that. (applause) mr president, geopolitics tells us that the hour of european sovereignty has finally come. it is time for europe to take its destiny into its own hands. it is time for europe to develop what i have called its weltpolitikfähigkeit. this ability to play our part in influencing the course of world affairs. europe must become more of a sovereign actor in international relations. european sovereignty is derived from the national sovereignty of our member states. it does not replace what is peculiar to the nations. sharing our sovereignty, where necessary, makes each of our states and nations stronger. this belief that we are greater together is the very essence of what it means to be part of the european union. european sovereignty will never be used against others. europe must remain a continent of openness and tolerance, and it will remain so. europe will never be a fortress turning its back on the world, and especially on the world which is suffering. europe will never be an island, europe must and will remain multilateral because the planet belongs to all of us and not just to a few. (applause) i would like to thank this is also the stake of the european parliament elections, which will take place in may 2019. we will use the 250 days until the european elections to prove to our fellow citizens that when we act together, the european union can achieve results and that it is delivering on the commitments we made at the beginning of this mandate. by the european elections, we must show that europe can overcome the differences between north and south, east and west. the european union, europe, is too small to be divided into two and then into four. we must show that together, east, west, south and north, we can sow the seeds of a more sovereign europe. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. the commission has proposed that when the elections are held in may 2019, the european citizens will not be interested. but it will interest them to a great extent that the internet giants pay taxes where their profits are earned. (beifall) the voters also want, not only, as i know, that the commission's proposal on this subject should soon become law. die, die das wollen, haben absolut recht. this is the law of the land. (beifall) when the european people vote in 2019, they will be less of the goodwill of the commission to go against the plastic, to protect our seas. if we europeans want to convince ourselves and the world of the rightness of our actions, then we need a european law that cements the plastic ban. (beifall) we all declare, mostly in sonntagsreden, that we should be more ambitious in big questions and more modest in small questions. but the europeans are not applauding in may 2019, when we still have to change the time twice a year due to european regulations. the time is now! (beifall) the member states themselves should decide whether their citizens should live in summer or in winter. i expect that the parliament and the council will also see to it that regional, market-conform solutions are found. the time is running out! i would like to ask all of you to work together in the coming months so that we can resolve this issue in time for the european elections. as we have entered, we have all spoken together, an innovative digital binnenmarkt, a deepened economic and monetary union, a banking union, a capital market union, a fair binnenmarkt, an energy union with a future-oriented climate policy, a comprehensive migration agenda, a security union to be realised. and we have decided, at least most of us, not to treat the social dimension of europe as a stepmotherly issue, but to build it towards the future. the commission has put on the table all the proposals and initiatives announced in 2014. half of them have already been adopted by the council and parliament. twenty percent are on a good path, and thirty percent are stuck in some difficult consultations. ladies and gentlemen, i do not accept that the commission is held solely liable for any failures which may have occurred. our proposals are well known, especially in the field of refugees and migration. they should be adopted and implemented. i will also in future not allow, but i know, it will so come, that the commission zum alleinigen sündenbock wird gemacht. sündenböcke in the commission and in parliament. (beifall) führung auf breitester front is still being discussed. this also applies to the completion of our security union. europeans rightly expect the european union to protect and defend them. the commission therefore proposes today new rules for the removal of terrorist propaganda from the internet within one hour. the hour is the decisive window of time during which the greatest damage can be done. the european union has also been involved in the fight against terrorism, and the tasks of the newly created european public prosecutor's office in the fight against terrorist acts have been expanded. we must be able to track terrorists across the union and across borders. terrorists know no borders. we should not make ourselves their accomplices by not cooperating with them. for this reason, we are now also able to take effective and cross-border measures against money laundering. genauso entschlossen müssen wir vorgehen, um freie und zu tunen wahl in europa sicherzustellen. (the european parliament has been asked to vote on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.) therefore, the commission proposes new rules for a democratic process against manipulation by third countries and also against massive clusters of private interests. (beifall) führung und kompromiss will of course be particularly important in urgently needed migration issues. we have made more progress yesterday than is often claimed. five of the commission's seven proposals for the redesign of our common european asylum systems were adopted. some efforts have been successful. there are 97% fewer refugees in the eastern mediterranean and 80% fewer refugees along the central mediterranean route. eu-einsätze trugen seit 2015 zur rettung von mehr als 690 000 menschen auf hoher see bei. the eu-einsätze are designed to help the rescue of more than 690 000 people in the high seas. however, the member states have not yet found the right balance between the responsibility of each country for its own territory and the need for solidarity between them. this solidarity is essential for the member states if they are to maintain the schengen area without internal frontiers. i'm going to stay here with binnengrenzen. they must sleep, where they are now again ab ab abchafft. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome. (beifall) the commission and several council presidencies have put forward numerous proposals on migration. i call on the austrian presidency to take decisive steps to find a sustainable solution for a balanced migration reform. we cannot continue to argue about ad hoc solutions for the people on board with the arrival of each new ship. (beifall) ad-hoc solutions are not enough. we need more and more gegenwarts- und zukunftssolidarität. solidarity must be enduring, and it must also be organized. we also need more solidarity, because we need more efficiency. this also applies to the question of a strengthened european disaster protection system. if it burns in one country, it burns all over europe. the most impressive pictures of the summer include not only the fires, but also the applause, which the swedish firefighters have given to the polish firefighters in solidarity. europe at its best! we are now putting forward a proposal for the strengthening of european border and coastal protection. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's external borders are protected more efficiently. therefore, we propose to increase the number of european border guards, who are financed from the european budget, to 10,000 by the year 2020. we also propose to extend the asylum agency of the european union. member states need stronger european support for the processing of asylum seekers in accordance with the geneva convention on the status of refugees. and we are putting forward a proposal to speed up the return of irregular migrants. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new system of taxation of capital. we need qualified migrants. the commission's proposals are also being put forward. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to speak to you about the future, and therefore about our cousin continent, africa. by 2050, africa will have 2.5 billion people. one in four will be african. we must invest more in our relations with this great and noble continent and its individual nations. and we must stop looking at this african-european relationship as a purely development aid provider. such an approach would be inadequate and, in fact, humiliating for africa. (applause) i would like to thank africa does not need charity. it needs a balanced partnership, a real partnership. and we europeans need this partnership as well. in preparing this speech, i spoke with my african friends, including president kagame, the chairman of the african union. we have agreed that in the future our commitments must be mutual. we want to build a new partnership with africa. (applause) i would like to thank the commission is today proposing a new alliance between africa and europe, an alliance for sustainable investment and jobs. this alliance, as we envisage it, would create up to 10 million jobs in africa over the next five years. we want to create a framework to attract more private investment to africa. in fact, we are not starting from scratch: our external investment fund, launched here two years ago, will mobilise more than €44 billion of public and private sector investment in africa. the planned and committed projects will mobilise eur 24 billion. we will focus our investments where investments make a real difference. by 2020, the european union will have supported 35,000 african students and researchers through our re-engineered erasmus programme. by 2027, this figure is to be increased to 105 000. trade between europe and africa is not insignificant. 36% of africa's trade is already with the european union. but trade between us is not enough. i am convinced that we should evolve the many trade agreements between african countries and the european union into a continent-to-continent free trade agreement, an economic partnership between equal partners. another issue where i see a strong need for the union for leadership is brexit. i will not go into the details of the negotiations, which are being masterfully handled by my friend michel barnier. he works on the basis of a unanimous position confirmed time and again by the 27 member states. however, allow me to recall three principles which should guide our work on brexit in the months to come. first of all, we respect, of course, the british decision to leave our union, yes, but we deeply regret it that you are. but we also ask the british government to understand that someone who leaves the union cannot be in the same privileged position as a member state. if you leave the union, you are of course no longer part of our single market, and certainly not only in parts of it. (applause) secondly, the commission, this parliament and all other member states will always show loyalty and solidarity with ireland when it comes to the irish border. this is why we want to find a creative solution that prevents a hard border in northern ireland. (applause) and we will defend all the elements of the good friday agreement. it is brexit that is making the border more visible in northern ireland. it is not the european union. thirdly, after 29 march 2019, the united kingdom will never be an ordinary third country for us. the united kingdom will always be a very close neighbour and partner, in political, economic and security terms. in the past months, when we needed unity in the union, britain was at our side, driven by the same values and principles as all other europeans. this is why i welcome prime minister may's proposal to develop an ambitious new partnership for the future, after brexit. we agree with the statement made at chequers that the starting point for such a partnership should be a free trade area between the united kingdom and the european union. on the basis of these principles, the commission's negotiators, mainly my good friend michel barnier, stand ready to work day and night to reach a deal. we owe it to our citizens and our businesses to ensure the united kingdom's withdrawal is orderly and that there is stability afterwards. it will not be the commission that will stand in the way of this. ladies and gentlemen, there is still a lot of work to be done before the european elections and the summit in romania on 9 may next year. in sibiu, we will have to convince our fellow citizens that we share the same basic idea of the purpose of our union. people do not like uncertainties or diffuse goals. they like clear directions. they hate shortcuts and half measures. so let us not offer half measures to the european citizens. all this constitutes the european agenda on the road to sibiu. by sibiu, we must ratify the partnership agreement between the european union and japan, for economic reasons, but also geopolitical reasons. by the sibiu summit, we have to negotiate an agreement in principle on the budget of the european union after 2020. if we want to give young europeans the chance to make the most of the possibilities offered by the erasmus programme, which deserves to have more funding, we will have to decide on this envelope, this envelope and other envelopes. if we want to give more opportunities to our researchers, to our start-ups, and to avoid a lack of resources leading to a drastic reduction in the number of research posts, we will have to take a decision on the budget before the european elections. if we want to increase defence spending by 20 times without becoming more militarised, we must decide before the european elections. if we want to devote 23% more of our investments to africa, we must decide quickly. i am always told by heads of state, ministers, european and national parliamentarians that we cannot decide before the elections. as if the elections were a crisis of democracy. no, you can't! it is normal in a democracy to have elections, and it is normal, urgent, to decide before the elections to show the way to those who are supposed to elect us. (applause) i would like to thank by next year, we will also have to further develop the international role of the euro. after only 20 years of existence, and despite the declining voices that have accompanied us along this journey, the euro has already had a rich history behind it. the euro has become the second largest currency in the world after the dollar. sixty countries have linked their own currencies to the euro in one way or another. but we must do more to enable our single currency to play its full role on the international stage. recent events have highlighted the need to deepen our economic and monetary union and to build deep and liquid capital markets. many of the commission's proposals in this area are awaiting adoption. we must and can go further. it is absurd that europe pays 80% of its energy import bill, which amounts to €300 billion a year, in us dollars, when only 2% of our energy imports come from the us. it is absurd, ridiculous, that european airlines buy european planes in dollars instead of euros. we have to change all that. (applause) this is why the commission will present initiatives to strengthen the international role of the euro before the end of the year. the euro must become the active instrument of the new european sovereignty. and to do that, the first thing we have to do is to put our house in order, by strengthening and deepening economic and monetary union, as we have already begun to do. without a deep economic and monetary union, we will lack credible arguments for strengthening the international role of the euro. we must complete economic and monetary union so that europe and the euro can become stronger. and still on the way to sibiu (hermannstadt), i would like us to make tangible progress in strengthening our foreign policy. our ability to speak with one voice on foreign policy will need to be strengthened. it is not right that europe should be silent when we cannot speak out loudly at the un human rights council in geneva to condemn human rights violations in china because a member state opposed them. i quote this example but i could cite others. (applause) that is why the commission is today proposing to you again to move to qualified majority voting in certain specific areas of our external relations. i repeat the message. (applause) i repeat the message i explained in detail last year. we are going to make proposals to enable us to proceed in certain areas, not in all areas, in foreign policy by qualified majority. the treaty, as it stands, allows the european council to take a decision to this effect. it considers that the time has come to give life to the lisbon treaty's 'bridge clause' which opens the way to qualified majority decision-making, a 'bridge clause' which is the 'forgotten beauty' of the treaty. (applause) i think, moreover, that in certain tax matters we should also be able to decide by qualified majority. (applause) a word, mr president, to say that the way we discuss our disagreements is becoming more and more interesting to me. the number of controversial exchanges between governments, and sometimes between institutions, is increasing. but it is not polemical and often hurtful words that make the european construction move forward. what concerns me is not just the unfortunate tone of voice when political forces are discussing among themselves. it's also true of the way some people treat, because they want to end all debate, the media and journalists. europe must remain a place where freedom of the press is not called into question. too many journalists are being intimidated, attacked, murdered. (applause) there is no democracy without a free press. (applause) thank you for clapping, so that i can drink. (laughter) in general, ladies and gentlemen, we must recover the virtues of compromise. compromise is not a sign of weakness, it does not imply sacrificing one's convictions and it does not prevent free debate which respects the views of others. the commission opposes all breaches of the rule of law. we remain concerned about the developments in the debate in some of our member states. article 7 must apply where the rule of law is in danger. (applause) in this respect, i must say that first vice-president timmermans is doing a remarkable, but very often, too often, a lonely job in defending the rule of law. he has my full personal support and that of the whole commission. (applause) and then there is one point on which we must not and cannot derogate: the judgments of the court of justice of the european union must be respected and enforced. (applause) the european union is a community of law. respect for the rule of law and respect for judicial decisions are not optional but mandatory. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and for many of you, dear friends, in introducing not my last speech, but my last speech on the state of the european union, i spoke to you about history, the little story that covers the mandate of this commission and the big story, which is that of europe. we are all responsible for europe as it is, and we will all be responsible for europe as it will be. this is how history is made: parliaments and commissions pass, but europe remains. for the european union to become what it should be, we must bear in mind several elements. i would like europe to leave the world stage. europe must not be a spectator or commentator on international events. it must be a constructive actor, a shaper, an architect of the world of tomorrow. there is a strong demand for europe around the world. to meet this pressing demand, europe will have to speak with one voice on the international stage. in the concert of nations, europe's voice must be intelligible, understandable and distinct in order to be heard and understood. federica mogherini has advanced the diplomatic coherence of the european union as never before. but let us never again fall into the incoherence of competing and parallel national diplomacies. european diplomacy must be one, and our multilateral solidarity must be complete. (applause) i would like from now on to make a greater effort to bring the west and the west of europe closer together. let us put an end to this sad spectacle of intra-european division. our continent and those who ended the cold war deserve better. i would like the european union to take greater care of its social dimension. those who ignore the legitimate expectations of workers and small businesses are putting the cohesion of our societies at great risk. let us turn the intentions of the gothenburg summit into the rule of law. (applause) i would like next year's elections to be a great moment for european democracy. i hope that the experience of the spitzenkandidaten (heads of list) - this small step forward in european democracy - will be repeated. i believe that this experience will be all the more credible when we have real transnational lists. i think by 2024, we'll have to do it. (applause) i would like to thank above all, i would like us to say no to unhealthy nationalism, and yes to enlightened patriotism. we must bear in mind that patriotism in the 21st century has two dimensions, one national and the other european, and the two are not mutually exclusive. i like, said the french philosopher blaise pascal, things that go together. to stand on their own two feet, nations and the european union must walk together. if you love europe, you must love the nations that make it up. he who loves his country must and can love europe. patriotism is a virtue, narrow nationalism is a grievous lie and a pernicious poison. (applause) i would like to thank in short, let us remain true to who we are. let us plant trees today in the shade of which our great-grandchildren, wherever they come from, from the north, the south, the west or the west, can grow and breathe in peace. a few years ago i told you right here that europe was the great business of my life. yes, i love europe and i will continue to do so. thank you for listening to me. (the sitting was suspended at 7.30 p.m. and resumed at 9.30 p.m.)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, europe is much more robust than it was four years ago. you overcame tough times. i think everybody can underline this, but without you, jean—claude, without your leadership, it would have been impossible to manage the last few years. with your cool head, your determination and your sincere heart for europe, you defended the unity of this continent. i want to thank you for this and i also want to thank you for the details of your love affair, which you shared with us in your final remarks. thank you, jean-claude juncker. (applause) but there is still a lot to do and that is the main message of today’s state of the union speech. we are still in a working session. we have to deliver and, from today’s announcements from jean-claude juncker and the commission, we can sum up that all the proposals that the commission promised at the beginning of their mandate are now on parliament’s and the commission’s table. i would also add that these were not only the commission’s proposals in the beginning, but were the promises of the ppe candidate, jean—claude juncker, in his election campaign, to give a clear link between what you promised in the campaign last year and what you delivered under your leadership in the commission. also, on the implementing front, we have to be aware that we delivered a lot: you already mentioned some of the figures which are on the table on the economy, a stable growth rate, all the eurozone countries below 3%, we have created millions of new jobs – our companies did so, mario draghi has now given a clear signal that he will stop the low interest rate policy by the end of this year. so, having this in mind, it is a big success story. we have brexit. i can remember, jean—claude, when we in your office after we got the messages from london about the outcome of the referendum and we were disappointed. we were looking for answers and we were a little scared about whether others could or would follow. today, europe is united and ready for a deal, but london cannot give us a clear answer, so the eu is united and london is in trouble. finally, on migration, we reduced the numbers of arrivals, especially through the mediterranean route, by more than 80% by 2015. when you sum up all these things, some would probably say that listing success stories is a boring exercise and probably journalists are not very interested. i would say that this is not the case, but i would say that it is a precondition for the most important thing a politician can have, and that is trust from the people. we did it together: all the political families worked on this. i want to pick up only one aspect because there is still a discussion going on about how we rescued the euro and yes, my party, the ppe party, is proud of what we did. it is about the policy of enda kenny, of passos coelho, of mariano rajoy, of samaras, and of anastasiades in cyprus. they took the necessary steps and we rescued europe and the euro with the policy that we invented and we established. (applause)we created growth and a good future perspective for the people and i do not remember – let me say this in party political terms –hollande, renzi, dijsselbloem or even moscovici presenting any kind of alternative proposal about how we should answer the challenge which was on the table. even mr bullmann, in the german government, with your contribution and your party, i didn’t see any alternative proposal presenting other strategies to overcome the crisis. stable budgets and an ambitious reform programme are necessary for a good economic future. that is what the ppe believes in. (applause) but now let’s look to the future. a people’s europe is, first of all, a europe of security. that’s why we welcome the proposal to provide 10 000 frontex officers to really contribute to a strong border control. security also still means the fight against organised crime and criminals. their data exchange is key for europe and i also want to underline that the schengen area brings more and not less security. that’s why we ask the council to take further steps to include bulgaria and croatia inside the schengen area. they have waited for such a long time. it’s now time to act. i ask the romanian government to stop the risks regarding the fight against corruption in romania because they are harming the decision—making process towards bulgaria and croatia in the same way. all three countries must have the right to join the schengen area immediately. i want to underline this again. a second point for a people’s europe is a europe of democracy. that’s why i thank you for the initiatives to make our european elections safe. neither russia, nor china, nor any external power will decide. no trolls, fake news or cambridge analytica will decide. the people will decide. europeans will decide the future of this continent. a third point: a people’s europe is a europe of fairness. i wonder what a truck driver is thinking when he listens to the radio and they talk about self-driving trucks. i think he is asking himself, ‘what will happen to me?’ in such a world – we are facing a revolution in the labour market – we have to create a new fair deal for europe. that means – and i think in this house we all share these general ideas – fair taxation, contributions by the digital business sector to the future of this fair approach, and a new social model. today’s europe cannot be united – and cannot be called united – as living conditions in the european union are still not equal. that’s why i think we have to do more on common living conditions and living standards in the european union. finally, a people’s europe is a europe which is strong at global level. you showed in the oval office that we are strong – economically, a giant – and we also have to become a giant politically. that’s why a change from the unanimous vote mechanism to the majority vote system is fully supported by the epp. let’s stand up, let’s make this century a european one again. the crisis times are over. now it’s time for a more united europe, for a more democratic europe and for a more ambitious europe. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the president of the commission started his term of office by promising that he would be a politician, a political leader of the college of commissioners, and even those who tend, as i do, to criticise him on a daily basis – of course, only if it’s really necessary – have to admit he is a political leader of the commission. chapeau, mr juncker! you are not the porte-parole of the national capitals, and you are a credit to the decency of this political role in europe. by fulfilling it as you do you make a huge difference vis-à-vis the predecessor from your own political family, and i appreciate that. but that is not the issue at stake today. the issue is not whether you are a dedicated european or whether the college of commissioners consists of dedicated europeans. we are convinced of that, otherwise we would not have voted for you. the question at stake is whether our institution and our policies are yet up to the task on which we have to deliver nowadays. yes, we are in an era of huge crisis. mr weber, i do not think we have yet overcome the crisis: think of migration, which you mentioned; think of climate change; think of the deepening divides between north and south and between east and west. no. we are in a transformational period and, as pope francis said at the beginning of your term of office, ‘this is not an era of change, this is a change of era.’ the real question, which we discuss in our political group, is ‘why can’t we be more radical?’ why can’t we go for a clearer policy change to live up to the change of era. you mentioned migration, mr juncker, and we wholeheartedly support what you were saying. given that, as manfred weber reminded us, you were the ppe candidate for your post at the last election, why is it that, when you talk about migration you have the applause only of the left side of this house, while the rest are silent? i wonder why that is. i cannot understand it, because migration is what he says is the task of today. yes, we have to open legal ways for migration. what we witnessed again in the summer in the mediterranean is a scandal. it is disgusting to see people drowning – although the official mission of the european union no longer includes safe harbours because of the right-wing italian government. and this is the mission of the commission president who was the ppe candidate last time for that office. i urge the council to take note of that when preparing for the summit on 19 september: to discuss his proposals and to take urgent action. this is what we expect from the council. (applause)we will be able to act in a broader picture only if we reach out to the societies of the east. yes, they need a new compact. they have an interest beyond bratislava, mr juncker. they have a clear interest in safe energy. they have an interest in cohesion, long-lasting cohesion, and in the re—industrialisation of their countries – and they deserve that. the workers in the eastern countries deserve a decent future, and we need to establish a new compact. i am deeply convinced that it will then be easier to resolve the migration question too. let us talk about the south. it is not bearable that 40—50% of the young people in the south are without any prospects. we need a new master plan for the south. and why not? this could be done by the commission in the remaining months of its term of office. why not propose a new master plan, building on the investment plan of jean—claude juncker, extending that to the south and restoring hope and a vision of the future to the southern countries? why not make them again the marketplaces of new ideas, the bridge builders to the cultures in our neighbourhood? that would be a very important task, and we would encourage the commission to undertake it. but it is not only the societies in the east and the south that are falling apart. look at the north. look at brexit. of course, we fully back the position of the commission and we stand united on that. but look at brexit, look at the swedish elections, and you see that ordinary working-class people, who have invested their hope in europe, would like to see us delivering, at the top of our agenda, one specific proposal. why does the commission not come forward with the proposal that each and every child in the european union have a child guarantee: that each child deserves free healthcare, deserves proper education, deserves decent housing? that could be a proposal in the forthcoming months to unite the european union around a new future for the next generation. and that is what we propose. you are right, mr juncker, that we need to defend our institution. we need to fight against enemies who would like to undermine our democracy – cambridge analytica, for example, and all the enemies from the outside, as well as enemies from inside. and yes, we need to strengthen the community method in the last months of your term of office. good luck.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, you yourself and many colleagues have looked at the challenges that we have globally, and i totally agree with them. we have a lot of challenges. we have problems – to say the least – in our transatlantic partnership, we have china rising up – there are so many challenges out there. but i would argue that more threatening than anything that the world can throw at us are actually the enemies from the inside, and that they are the obvious ones: the nationalists that bring hatred, division; the racists that spread fear and hate. but there are also some less obvious: the decision-makers who actually don’t take decisions and want to keep the status quo, who just want to keep their own privileges and who are just closing their eyes at what is at stake. and then there are powers in governments – of which, unfortunately, we have more and more – who use the european union as a scapegoat for all their own failures and that are cutting away democracy and civil liberties bit by bit and piece by piece. but a europe united, a europe that knows what it stands for, can face all external problems and can be a front-runner and a shining example in the world. we can be strong if we don’t make ourselves weak. and europe has promised its citizens to bring peace, prosperity and democracy, and those promises are still very relevant – but we need to renew them and we need to bring them to fulfilment. on peace, we have major achievements to show, but we cannot rest on laurels and norwegian medals: there are new global challenges ahead that threaten our future and our security, and the biggest one of them is climate change. we have seen this summer that climate change is happening: it’s happening now and it’s happening everywhere, from disastrous harvests to forest fires. there is no way anyone could possibly deny that. and the good news about climate change is that we know what to do; and the bad news about climate change is that we don’t do it. but with trump leading the us into space rather than forwards, we cannot wait as europeans for someone else to protect our planet. no, we have to do it ourselves, and there is no time to lose. and there the commission has been way too timid in the past five years, i have to say. it is now that we need a very quick change to renewables and phasing-out of the climate-killer: coal. and if climate protection truly is a priority, then it should also be a priority in the multiannual budget. it should also be a priority in the agricultural reform. agriculture is both a victim as well as a culprit in climate change, but farmers can also be part of the solution. and here is where the commission should have been more ambitious with the agricultural reform. the european union has also always promised prosperity, but we are far away from the triple-a rating that we should have, i agree, on social policies. and the austerity imposed on member states in the past without regard to consequences and also without regard to whether this would actually help anything: that has seriously undermined the european promise of increasing living standards. but increasing the quality of life is not just some minor thing that you can forget about. it’s an essence of policy-making, and we need to renew this promise and build a social europe, and one not just of nice declarations like we’ve seen from gothenburg. we need not just nice intentions – that’s all very nice, but we need a social europe with real facts and real figures. we need common minimum social standards in europe. all citizens must get full access to social protection, to housing and to medical care. a framework directive on adequate minimum income schemes can create such a safety net as well, and here it would be very interesting to see a proposal by the commission, so that we can ensure that safety net for everyone and not just for a lucky few. and europe has promised democracy, rule of law and civil liberties to all its citizens, and that was a very strong call for all the countries that wanted to join, for all the people living under dictatorships who were being deprived of freedoms – like the country where i myself was born. our continent has a long and bloody history of oppressions, of tanks rolling against protesters, of people suffering in prison camps, and it’s only thanks to those courageous people who were marching for freedom, who were marching for democracy and who did not give up, that today in the european union we have that democracy, we have those civil liberties and we have freedom. but those very big successes are under threat. we need to fight for them again every single day, because inside europe today, judges are being dismissed, corruption is being legalised, newspapers are closed, universities harassed and civil society treated as criminals. and this is not a detail; this is a threat to all of us. and again, today as well, courageous people are standing up, marching for human rights – their own rights and the rights of their neighbours – and they are marching for freedom, be it in sicily or romania, be it in chiemnitz or be it in pirin. and they defend democracy, they defend humanity and they defend europe, and we see as well that, if we stand up together, then we really have power and we are really strong together. and i think more now than ever, it is now the task and responsibility of all of us to take a stance and to take up all of our responsibilities. we have responsibilities: you, as president of the commission, we all, as members of the european parliament – and all europeans from north to south, from east to west. because if europe loses on democracy, then it will lose itself. and this is about more than one country or another country: this is about the achievements on this continent that so many people have even died for. this is about our true self, the true self of europe, and it is time to take a stance.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not mr juncker, you have made a very strong statement today, expressing the political positions you have taken since you took office as president of the commission and have held up to this point. i want to pay my respects for that. i think that this makes it easier for us to talk about what, from the point of view of the various political groups in the european union, should be done differently. i would like to start with the evaluation. we are not prepared to accept the fact that the european union is a political union, but we are prepared to accept the fact that the european union is a political union, a political union, a political union, a political union. and i say to you, loud and clear: no! i was very struck by a sentence yesterday when the greek prime minister was here, when he said: 'we are out of the memorandum' and then added 'and he has said this several times: 'we have survived'. but if the phrase 'we have survived' is the conclusion of a policy which has been largely supported by the institutions and the commission, of a kind of crisis management which has been carried out on the backs of the poorest of the poor and which has led to the deepening of inequalities, and to the fact that we do not have the certainty that we can look to the future, but that we all feel that the next election is really something we have to say to ourselves today, we have to turn away because we want a europe of solidarity, of community, of peace, then there are a whole series of points where we have to look at the politics of today and say: this is not the way it will work. we must admit that ten years after the financial crisis began, many countries have not yet regained the level of prosperity they enjoyed before the crisis. and where growth is slow, it's not affecting many people. the rights of women workers have been severely curtailed in many member states. we must send a signal that we are strengthening these rights and the protection of workers, and especially those who are not in the labour market at all, that we are bringing them back, that we accept them, that for us this is part of the european union, and that we do not want the promised triple a for social triple a to become a triple a for a future military strength of the european union. we cannot take the money from the eu budget for the fund you mentioned earlier. and i 'm telling you , the title you have used, to show strength, to show solidarity, to show strength to the outside world and thus ultimately to protect the citizens, reminds me too much of the motto of the austrian presidency, which i do not like at all, because it says: 'europe that protects'. and you make it very clear: this is not about social union, this is not about that at all. there is hardly any specific objective in the terms of reference for this presidency. it is about protecting the external borders, deterring the refugees, and continuing this very process, these humanitarian disasters that we have seen this summer, in practice. i'm very grateful to you for telling me where the insoles are and who's blocking the way. and i think that we as a parliament should make it very clear that we finally need dublin, that we will not accept that the council is constantly blocking us here and that it simply thinks it can do whatever it wants and simply remains silent. and what we expect from the commission, and i urge you to do that, is to say it out loud. it is not helping the people and many actors, activists in europe, who are consciously looking at the situation, if they do not know where the causes lie and to whom they must turn, with whom they can fight together, if it is not clear who is responsible for what, what responsibilities the individual institutions have. we must make that clear. otherwise we will hardly win over voters who are prepared to overcome this lethargy - namely, to fight for europe. we have to do it together. that must be our mission. and that is where we differ - and i say this quite clearly - also massively as the left from all the right-wing attempts to destroy europe. i would like to emphasize this once again.
president of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i will confine myself to a few very brief remarks in response to the specific questions that have been put to me. i will begin with mr bullmann, who drew our attention to the need to develop further the rights of children and social rights in general. i would like to remind you that the commission has proposed exactly this type of action in the context of the so-called 'gothenburg process'. this is chapter 3, point 11. i would also like to remind - and i say this to mrs keller - that i have called today and yesterday for the göteborg declaration not to remain a poem, but for us to turn intentions into action, including legislation. i will tell my friend verhofstadt - who should be addressed with a minimum of politeness - that the commission has today adopted a text on the protection of european voters, european candidates and political parties in the context of the next european elections. so this is all going well. i'll tell mr. farage that you should listen before you speak. i have not equated national patriotism with european patriotism. i said, "one does not exclude the other", and i will continue to be a patriot, but an enlightened patriot. my little grand-ducal patriotism is not directed against anyone. (applause) i would like to thank i love my country but i don't hate others, and if you say that we live in two different worlds - it's not mr farage who said it, but a previous speaker - yes, i don't want to live in this world of rejection, in this world of hatred, i don't want to live in this world, i prefer my own, which is also yours. (applause) i would like to thank
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, on behalf of the council, let me – first of all – thank president juncker for his address and for his analyses regarding the challenges but also the opportunities facing our union at this crucial juncture as we approach the end of the parliamentary term. i won’t be able to go into all the detailed elements of president juncker’s speech but his considerations deserve careful examination. obviously, he touched upon issues that are at the centre of our attention. but let me turn to something else at the outset. i would like to stress that i fully second what president juncker stated at the beginning of his speech. our union is a union of peace. it is a union of prosperity and we should show respect towards this union, deal with it carefully and protect our common values. now let me turn to some of the issues touched upon, for instance, the idea of further strengthening frontex. it is an important element of a functioning eu policy on migration. it was already discussed at the european council in june and it will be a main topic for the discussions at the informal heads of state or government summit in salzburg. yes, the strengthening of frontex is, in our view, a precondition to establishing a resilient and well—grounded european asylum system. we hope as far as possible to find common ground and to bring things forward. the european council in june also reconfirmed the need to bring our cooperation with africa to a new level. a visible expression of this aim will be a high-level forum, which we are currently planning to hold in vienna at the beginning of december. as far as the proposal on summertime is concerned, we are planning to put that on the council’s agenda very soon. given the specific political context, before the end of the current parliamentary term, there is indeed a need to concentrate on the delivery of pending proposals and on the effective implementation of legislation. be assured that the austrian presidency’s energy and determination is fully focused on this. in recent months, there have been developments which may on the surface seem contradictory. there is much talk about euroscepticism and concerns in this respect ahead of next year’s european parliament elections. yet, at the same time, we have seen positive signs on renewed trust and higher levels of support for the union. for our part, as the presidency, we are confident that there is enough unity and determination in europe to tackle these challenges ahead and to transfer them into opportunities. our motto is ‘a europe that protects’ and this is what we are trying to contribute. i think this motto could also apply to a series of elements of president juncker’s speech today. europe has emerged stronger in many ways from the crisis we have faced in recent years, but now we need to act swiftly and determinedly on the economy, migration, security and digital europe, especially cybercrime. the increasing number of cyberattacks and the crucial questions on cybersecurity must be discussed diligently. we will strive to use the effects of digitalisation at its best on the one hand but, on the other hand, we have to deal carefully with the possible negative effects. the goal must be a secure, stable single digital market and the highest trust from the consumers of this service in europe. addressing you in this chamber in july, chancellor kurz presented to you the priorities of our presidency, namely, security and the fight against illegal migration, securing prosperity and competitiveness through digitalisation and stability in the european neighbourhood. i will not go through these principles and priorities again. they focus on achieving tangible results through demonstrating to european citizens the eu’s indispensable added value for its citizens and member states. this is particularly important in this period as we near the end of the parliamentary term. as president juncker mentioned, we have a lot of work to do in the coming months with regard to legislation, but there are also the informal meetings of the heads of state or government in salzburg next week and the european council meetings in october and december in which crucial decisions will have to be made. beyond our presidency are the european elections and the informal meeting in sibiu in may 2019, when the implementation of the leaders’ agenda will be reviewed and a strategic agenda for the period 2019—2024 will be prepared. finally, speaking of delivering on priority policies, i would also note that today’s debate on the state of the union is a key moment in a new annual cycle of programming. the general affairs council, at its meeting on 18 september, will have an exchange of views on the basis of the commission’s letter of intent, which was issued only yesterday. we also look forward to continuing the fruitful dialogue among the three institutions on priorities, particularly on the implementation of the joint declaration on the eu’s legislative priorities for 2018 and 2019. results can be delivered in a focused and targeted way through our joint programming. let me reaffirm the council’s commitment to this process and assure you that the presidency will continue to be a determined partner.
madam president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. president juncker has said it well: the european union is much, much better off politically, economically and socially than many people think. but still, many people see great challenges, many people are worried or dissatisfied. i think that often these worries and dissatisfaction are due to the fact that people have expectations of the european union that we cannot meet, expectations that the member states do not give us the instruments to meet, and that the european institutions do not have the necessary competence. if commission president juncker suggests that we eliminate the issue of tax incentives, tax incentives for companies like apple or amazon, which are granted on the backs of craftsmen and smes, if we want to shape a stronger common foreign policy or if we want to tackle the issue of migration and the protection of the external borders better together in europe, then we have exactly the situation that the member states have not yet given us competence in many of these matters and we cannot regulate things here. that is why i am very much in favour of the european commission. dear representative of the council! i hope that the council will take up these proposals from commission president juncker, that you will discuss in the council that the european union will finally be able to meet the demands and wishes of its citizens, so that satisfaction with the european union will increase and we can successfully develop this overall project in the interests of the citizens.
i have to say, madam president, we are discussing the state of the union today. the commission president, mr juncker, has explained his view on this matter. the commission has taken a historical approach to this, but it does little to meet the needs of the present situation. his analysis is wrong on the most elementary points. first, he thinks the financial crisis is over. this is a fatal mistake, mr juncker. it's not solved, it's just covered up. the pot is still boiling, and the day will come when the lid is lifted and all the omissions and miscarriages fly by. secondly, the peace which is so important to us is no longer threatened from outside, as it was in the 20th century, but from within, and above all by a completely misguided migration policy which the commission and this house are very much in favour of. thirdly, his policy of ever closer union is no longer viable. today, the question is more about who will be the next to leave than who will be the next to join the union. the brexit message has obviously not been understood here. the time of this commission and this policy has come to an end. this was also very much in evidence in the bloodless speech, mr juncker. if the eu is to be strong, it must remember its few real core tasks and respect the sovereignty of its nations. the opposite is happening here, as was shown yesterday in the dealings with prime minister orbán, and unfortunately still is. that's about to change.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. in his first reply to our comments as president of the group of the party of european socialists, mr juncker pointed out that the gothenburg process - and thus the pillar of social rights - contained references to this, particularly as regards the introduction of appropriate conditions and guarantees for children in all the member states of the european union. i would point out that the treaty does indeed offer the possibility of regulating the minimum income issue at eu level, and that we should do so. there are initiatives in all the member states - especially from homeless people, from poverty initiatives that are european in nature - to put this on the agenda at last, and we would very much welcome an initiative from the commission to introduce a minimum income throughout the eu and would consider it important if this were to happen now.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. this debate has shown that we must strengthen citizens' confidence in the european union. that is why i am addressing the commission, commissioners. i believe that this discussion must have consequences. we have said that we need a basic security for every child in the european union. the president of the commission has replied and said that he would see to it that an initiative was launched. i expect the same. yes, we said: the workers on digital platforms must not become the new proletariat. we need to secure their status, their rights. we're waiting for your proposal. we believe it is absolutely unacceptable that in most countries of the european union women earn on average less than men for the same work. when will the european commission's proposal be available? and yes, mrs zimmer is quite right: we need a framework directive to guarantee a european minimum wage. this is urgently needed to balance the imbalances in the internal market. if we say we want to make the transition to a more sustainable, to a new economic model, then we need to be able to read that in the european union semester. the figures must tell the truth about the environmental consumption, about the social costs, about the employment effects. reform the european semester and give us the chance to finally make progress in economic and monetary union. we need that to make the euro zone, to make europe capable of action. we have called on the commission to take action against cybercrime. i like to hear commission president juncker say that he wants to take initiatives. i appeal to the austrian presidency. they have a special summit now in september: they are obliging all the member states to take the necessary steps to ensure that the next european elections are safe and cannot be manipulated by third parties. that's the order of the day. we also said that it was your responsibility, as the austrian presidency of the council, to ensure that effective steps were taken at this special summit to ensure that the rescue of seafarers - it is a scandal what is happening there - is safeguarded. i hope for their initiative!
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i too would like to thank you for the constructive discussion we had. we feel that we are still in a mode of working in the european parliament where we want to give answers to the challenges. and it is precisely as the european parliament that we can be proud of what we have put forward and moved. one point is extremely important to us: we must be able to answer the migration question in 2018. otherwise, the citizens will ask us the question: why didn't anything happen here? why couldn't you bring it up? that's why it's our top priority. i would like to draw attention to two points which are important to us in the debates on the future, which are part of the state of the union debate. one is security, the sense of security people have. the second is fairness in europe. a new approach to fairness in a digital world is key. finally, madam president, we had a debate in the first round of speeches on whether or not we had already overcome the crises, whether or not we had already solved them, whether or not we still had a lot to do. i believe that the only way we can convince the people of europe is to go out with optimism, to tell them that we are capable of doing things, of solving problems. and that's why i'm proud of the successes we've had.
in writing. the current crises are increasingly becoming a test for the eu: the shocks of the financial and debt crisis are not yet overcome, the refugee issue is presenting the eu with enormous difficulties, brexit is causing dismay, populism is challenging the eu construct. europe is facing a number of challenges which are putting cohesion to the test. what are the long-term solutions to the crisis? and what about the future of the eu as a whole? the president of the commission has given the answer: we need more european sovereignty. i can only agree with that: the population of the eu is equivalent to 7% of the world's population. and the global competition has a common interest: a weak europe. we must counter that. we need a clear understanding of our own role as europeans in global developments but also in relations within the eu.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. today we have a second opportunity to decide on the application of copyright in the digital world. i would be grateful if the european parliament could also stand by our creators today. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. after the summer break, i made you new offers. it may not be 100% for everyone, but we're not going to go on like this. the problems are known, and we can develop this further. the proposal for a meeting of all parties is on the table. all you have to do is give us your approval today so we can move forward.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to thank you very much for this joint achievement we have achieved today. this was a good sign for our creative industries in europe. i would like to ask, however, in accordance with the fourth subparagraph of rule 59 (4), that our report be referred back to committee so that interinstitutional negotiations can begin.
mr president, we would just ask here to strike the first word and to insert ‘commends’ unrwa.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. as chairman of the intergroup on tibet in the european parliament, i am very grateful to mr belder for a balanced report on china, especially the chapters on the right of tibetans to freedom of expression and freedom of religion. it is clear that the chinese authorities have greatly increased surveillance and controls on individuals and social groups. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all those who have been detained in tibet. arbitrary arrests and ill-treatment have decreased. we cannot look the other way when lawyers and politically engaged citizens are locked away. the access of foreigners, journalists and diplomats to the tibet autonomous region must be facilitated. we europeans demand respect for human rights and the rule of law, even in relation to an economically strong trading partner such as china.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on a topical subject (rule 153): the future of pensions: combating privatisation and strengthening public universal social security systems (2018/2843 ((rsp)). i would point out to the members that there is no spontaneous vote procedure in this debate and that no blue cards will be accepted.
i see that mrs edtstadler is still prevented from speaking on behalf of the council because she is still signing legislation. that is why i would like to give the floor to the european commission for once.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a stable, reliable guarantee of old age is a central task in a social society. we therefore welcome the debate, knowing that pension insurance law is primarily national law and our powers are limited. we recognize that in many member states the demographic structure is difficult. we are pleased that the life expectancy of our european citizens continues to increase. from generation to generation, the average life expectancy in europe is increasing by three years: that is, my generation will on average be six years older than my grandfather was, and my son will on average be three years older than my generation when he is. that is why we must be concerned about the age structure, which is that there are fewer and fewer people in employment for every pensioner. the task remains primarily the responsibility of the member states. we, the european commission, want to make our proposal a complementary voluntary offer, not a substitute one. we believe that the state pension, the statutory pension, must remain the main pillar of pension insurance in the future. we believe that, in addition, private protection by the public and by economically sound offers can play a useful complementary role. the commission's proposal, which my colleague mr dombrovskis has drawn up in the lead, is based on the idea of supplementary health care systems and the need to add value by organising them at european level. please take it off him . we do not want the american industrial companies we have just been talking about to profit from this. we want a second pillar, where europe can add value and which fully meets our legal requirements of insurance law and the market economy, and we want to make an offer that the member states and citizens can accept but do not have to accept. if a member state wants to continue to place pension insurance fully on the national legal pillar, that is its own decision, its right, its responsibility. but if the second pillar is to be created in a complementary way, our proposal, if you follow it, is an offer neither more nor less.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i am sorry for the delay: there was a slight delay in signing legal acts together with president tajani. let me turn to our topic. sustainability of the pension system is crucial and has to be seen in the overall context of sustainable public finances. we need a modern and efficient social safety net that targets public resources to where they are needed most, catering in particular for vulnerable groups in society. but beyond the sustainability, we should also not forget about adequacy. sustaining adequate pensions in ageing societies is key to the economic coordination efforts and ensuring inclusive growth in the eu, as pensions are both the main source of income for older europeans and an important component of public expenditure. an increased awareness about old-age poverty led to a 1.9 million decrease in the number of old people at risk of poverty or social exclusion since 2008 in the eu, despite growing life expectancy. despite these improvements, there is no room for complacency, as was rightly highlighted by the 2018 pension adequacy report endorsed by the council in june this year. the european pillar of social rights, principle 15, highlights precisely this issue. it affirms the right of workers and the self-employed in retirement to a pension which commensurate with their contributions and ensuring an adequate income. furthermore, it highlights that women and men shall have equal opportunities to acquire pension rights. to this end, member states are working hard to ensure that the gender income and pay gap is closing. it is well known that the gender pay gap is amplified in old age. more than 20% of old women aged 65 and over are at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the eu. the council has not lost sight of this issue. most recently in march, ministers have debated the implications of the gender pay gap on our societies and discussed ways forward on how to tackle it. the adequacy report’s key messages focus in this regard on the following: reducing the inequality requires equal opportunity policies targeted at women and men of working age, inter alia through promoting the work-life balance and equal distributions of caring responsibilities and addressing labour market participation and career opportunities, work intensity and career breaks. last but not least, this debate closely ties in with discussions on the future of work. an increasing number of people do not work in regular full-time employment any more. we must make sure that our social security systems, including pensions, are not the last ones to adapt to this reality. this would have grave consequences on our societies in a few decades from now. the proposed recommendations on access to social protection for workers and the self-employed is currently being discussed. the intention is to take steps to extend pension coverage to more people in non-standard or self-employment, and adapting accrual conditions to diverse work patterns. this can help more people build up adequate pension rights. in conclusion, ensuring the long-term sustainability of public finances is particularly important, given the ageing population and the debt levels in the eu. it is also of utmost importance that we do not leave our fellow citizens who have contributed to the betterment of our societies, who were instrumental in the growth of our economies, and who have shaped the europe that we live in today.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. many young people in my country do not believe that they will receive an adequate pension later on. many people in germany are - not unjustifiably - very concerned about old age poverty. the german institute for economic research (diw) has just published that more than sixty percent of germans will have to adjust to the fact that they will be short of some seven hundred euros a month to maintain their standard of living in old age. the private pension provision is therefore recommended, as is the case here in the house, which is not without a certain irony, because private pension provision is massively damaged by the policy of the european central bank. the continuing low interest rates are devaluing savings and depriving people of the opportunity to make adequate private provision for their retirement. in addition, in my country, the parties have been competing for the highest pensions for years. this has already resulted in the federal budget contributing some 100 billion to pensions. of course, many other areas are suffering, such as education, infrastructure, defense, family support, and many more. nevertheless, one in two pensions in germany is less than 800 euros. the ratio of contributors to beneficiaries is deteriorating and will not continue to improve in the future. in germany, social transfers to immigrants per capita are already higher than transfers to domestic recipients of social assistance. unfortunately, germany is continuing to increase the number of low- or no-skilled immigrants, thus depriving itself of financial leeway. citizens whose life insurance policies are being devalued, as are their savings, are increasingly relying on public provision, at least in germany, for low-wage pensions or social assistance. we need a de-linking of policy from banks and insurers in the euro zone, not increasing interlinking and dependence. we want free citizens and not a maximum of citizens who are dependent on public services. politics must deal with the consideration of reality. and in my country, and in the eu, i don't trust politicians to do that.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. according to eurostat, the statistical office of the european union, well over 20 percent of europe's population is now at risk of or already affected by old-age poverty. but instead of tackling the real problems in the pension system, the commission and the majority of the house, as we heard today, are clinging to the mistaken belief that the capital market can somehow pay for pension provision. that's like entrusting a gambler with his hard-earned savings because he said he'd take it to the next bank safely, but he forgot to mention that on the way to that bank is his casino, and that's where he always returns to gamble. research by the investigative journalism network investigate europe shows how the financial lobby has cooperated with the commission at european level, because it promises to make a crazy business out of the pension. the result is the pan-european personal pension product, or pepp for short, which does not even meet the minimum requirements for a serious pension product. there is no guarantee that consumers will get back what they have paid for, and at the same time the market is being opened up to hedge funds and asset managers true to the motto: gamble with your retirement. this policy exposes people to the whims of the capital market and consequently forces them to collect bottles in old age. stop this false policy! work with us to build a europe of social protection! the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of life of the elderly, and has recently launched a new initiative to combat the problem of poverty.
i would like to point out again that, as i announced at the beginning of the sitting, there is no spontaneous vote in this debate and no blue cards will be accepted. i'm sorry, woman of the field. i would have liked to, but i can't.
the commission has already done so. this debate is far too late. it is astonishing that we are only now focusing on the crisis of the state pension systems, where this crisis has actually been looming for decades. i am here at the ripe old age of 56, and i was in germany a member of the strong-born generation. we know that in germany and in many other european countries the birth rate has been declining steadily since the 1960s. and while we had a birth surplus in the 1960s and the population was growing, it's been shrinking for decades. this shrinking population is leading to a deep crisis in the levy system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have been in a situation for a long time now where the population growth rate is negative. this means that it is not possible to build a sustainable pension security on the basis of the contribution system alone. the alternative is, of course, a capital-raising procedure, and this capital-raising procedure is now being used by colleagues on the left and colleagues on the far right. they say it's a vicious form of privatization. no, it's not that! this is simply another way of offering citizens greater protection at a time when the levy system has reached the limits of its capacity. it must be seen that it is not only demographic change that is endangering the levying process. it is not enough to see that the increase in life expectancy will make the contribution procedure more difficult, at least if we do not also raise the retirement age at the same time. the second problem is that the system of levies was originally conceived as an element of the generational contract as insurance against unwanted childlessness. and the problem today is that there's much more than the problem of unwanted childlessness. there is the great problem of intentional childlessness - people who simply do not want to raise children or who want to be humble with a child. these people have great earning potential. they pay into the contribution scheme and withdraw the corresponding income from the pensions under the contribution scheme. but they do not fulfill the second part - or if you like, the first part - of the generational contract, that they also have children and raise them themselves and then pay those children later into the pension insurance system. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is completely wrong for colleagues on the left and colleagues on the far right to see this as a form of malicious privatisation. because of course, private companies can provide that. but it is equally possible that the state offers a capital protection procedure. there is nothing to prevent the state from saving in a fund of assets and, for example, non-insurance benefits currently subject to the levy procedure from being fed from such a fund of assets or from the income of the fund of assets. many countries now have what is called a sovereign wealth fund, but few actually use it to address the pressing problem of retirement. we could do that. we could use the funds from this fund to invest in urgently needed tasks, for example in the area of infrastructure investment. we could encourage entrepreneurial investments with high rates of return and we could use the returns to better insure old age. all these are possibilities which the levy procedure does not have. and if there is such a state-driven capital-raising mechanism, then the state also has an interest in the fact that there is high interest. the problem that has been raised is that we are now in a period of low interest rates and that the capital-backed procedure is no longer worthwhile and the riester pension, for example, has halved in cash value, would be solved if the state finally ensured that we earned proper interest income on our savings.
i have to say, madam president, our pension system is sick. although pension contributions are very high, there is a lot of poverty in old age. this poverty will increase considerably in the coming years. it is precisely for these people that private provision is of little help, and that of the eu only partially. because we don't have enough money to invest it in any way that it doesn't get eaten up by inflation. investing in funds also brings great uncertainties. the lehman brothers collapse should be a lesson to us. the only sensible solution, in my opinion, is to use all income for a public pension fund, including income from shares and corporate profits, for example, as is already the case in switzerland. this will relieve the burden on the middle class. there should be a minimum and a maximum pension. it is the only way to restore our pension system to safety and efficiency.
i would remind you again what i said at the beginning of the sitting, namely that there is no spontaneous vote procedure in this debate and that no blue cards will be accepted. i'm very sorry, but i keep getting these signs. i must repeat here what i have already said twice, namely that it is not possible today.
i have to say, madam president, i think that every european, every worker in europe, needs to know that he is receiving a pension that will guarantee his standard of living in retirement too, in a stable state model that is independent of the fluctuations of the capital market. the financial products which the insurance industry had advertised as being stable have proved to be not particularly sustainable in retrospect. the pension must be linked to the development of productivity in the economy and not to the number of children. the level of pensions must be based on the actual level of employment of the people concerned. it is not possible to work for 40 years and then be on welfare somewhere in europe. respect for life's achievements means: being able to continue with your pension when you are no longer in employment.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. you can say, since 2011, we've been creating something like a traffic law for the digital society. the general data protection regulation and directive are the basis for the most comprehensive and up-to-date data protection legislation in the world, in order to effectively protect citizens' fundamental rights, their right to informational self-determination. and as with road traffic, it must be clear who has the right of way, where one-way streets are, and how fast you can start. and of course, the rules must apply everywhere. it's the only way. there are no limits to data traffic. the regulation now concerns the implementation of the data protection package if you will in the european institutions and for the european data protection supervisor. i can say with a clear conscience that we have really made sure that what applies to every eu citizen on data protection applies also to the eu institutions - like the council, the european parliament, the commission - and not everyone can cook their own extra soup and it should simply no longer be so easy to ask future assistants here in the european parliament to take questionnaires asking them how many cigarettes they smoke, whether they have ever been to a psychiatrist, what diseases their parents had and so on and so forth. but the european public prosecutor should also be subject to the same rules, eurojust and, of course, europol. i would remind you that the europol regulation is the only law in which biometric data are still not considered to be particularly sensitive data. and i would also like to say to europol, in a conciliatory way: no, parliament has never intended to undermine europol's work. on the contrary, it has sought to create transparency, including in data protection. i think we can make it to 2022. however, the regulation also provides for greater powers and this was very important to us for the european data protection supervisor and the data protection supervisor in general. and here we really agreed: more competence is needed, and above all, resources must be significantly increased. we also wanted a strong data protection committee. the regulation also provides for a new model of coordinated supervision of the database and information systems. until now, for centralised systems containing data from the member states, there has been a separate supervisory board made up of the edps, national authorities, each with its own procedures, its own chairman, its own tralala, i should say. we actually ended that to have a uniform mechanism of control. and that's good for now. we are also glad to have contributed a little to transparency and freedom of information. the regulation on access to eu documents is the subject of this report. we have made it clear that citizens who want to receive certain information from the eu cannot be given cheap food. and in this law we have also implemented a little bit the court judgments in the cases of bavarian lager and dennekamp. but there is also a trickle of life, and that is internal rules, which we all dislike. however, they are useful precisely where specific regulations are necessary to fulfil tasks olaf keyword or because the gdpr has given some leeway and homework to the member states in some places, such as the balance between freedom of expression and data protection, without however this was important to us undermining, overturning the existing law. this is why safety nets and the edps's supervision were necessary. let me conclude with a personal word: thank you to the shadow reporters who have really been my absolute support. we're a small group, so you really have to work hard. and thank you to the staff. we couldn't have done it otherwise. i would also like to thank the commission, which has not only put forward a good draft but has also been helpful as an intermediary, the legal service and the libe secretariat. these are all professional props. i got to know that. thank you very much. and i say to the council, they have a lot of work to do, keyword eprivacy. we are through, we have finished our homework and now we expect the council to do it. that is to be added.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, the new eu directive on data protection in the area of police and judicial cooperation is sometimes called the little sister of the general data protection regulation. the rules for data protection in the eu institutions are probably not more than a distant cousin in the public eye. however, this does not do the regulation justice. the eu institutions have to make sure that our own data protection rules live up to the high standards that we expect companies and public authorities all over europe and beyond to comply with. this is precisely what this regulation seeks to do. we as the s&d group would very much have preferred to have one set of data protection rules for everybody, including the eu institutions. however, the commission chose a different approach. the data protection rules for eu institutions that we will be voting on tomorrow is, therefore, the third step in our endeavour to secure eu citizens’ fundamental right to data protection. despite the challenge of having different texts, overall, i think we managed to achieve pretty good results. the new rules are aligned with high data protection regulation standards and, for example, like in gdpr, this regulation guarantees certain rights to citizens, such as the right to know what kind of personal data an eu institution holds about you, as well as the right to ask for the correction or even deletion of those data. as the s&d group, we believe that this regulation, coupled with gdpr and the police directive, represents an ambitious step towards securing the fundamental rights of persons. in this context, we agree that an independent supervisory body should be set up to ensure the protection of fundamental right to data protection in the eu institutions too. i find it regrettable, however, that eu agencies are not fully covered by this new regulation. europol, after long debates, continues to have its own set of rules. however, it is our understanding in the s&d group that the future europol reform will rectify this problem, thus helping to create legal certainty and uniform rules, including for the processing of operational data. together with and on behalf of our shadow, miriam dalli, we would like to congratulate the rapporteur, cornelia ernst. together, we managed to agree a piece of ambitious and progressive legislation. through tomorrow’s vote, this house will show what parliament and the council together can achieve in the area of fundamental rights protection in all sectors. in particular, i am happy to see that e-privacy rules are incorporated in this regulation. however, there is a missing piece: the e-privacy regulation for outside the eu institutions. e—privacy seeks to protect the confidentiality of communication as a whole. it was proposed by the commission in january 2017 and parliament adopted its position in october. but ever since then, the file has been stuck in the council. member states are unwilling to make a bold step towards protecting fundamental rights online, despite the fact that the current e—privacy rules do not even cover main players such as facebook or whatsapp, and this has to change. member states have to move and the austrian presidency has to be more ambitious than just aiming for a progress report in december. to sum up, with the regulation for data protection in eu institutions, we are taking another important step towards ensuring fundamental rights in the digital era, and this house stands ready – and the s&d group stands ready – to add the missing piece to this protective framework. we want to start negotiations on the e-privacy regulation with the council now.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the same rules that apply to businesses and public authorities in the member states are also to apply to the eu institutions. it is therefore good that the general data protection regulation is now followed by a modernisation of the regulation on data protection in the eu institutions and agencies. the content of this dossier was largely uncontroversial, because we were guided by the general data protection regulation. the greens are particularly pleased that there is also a specific chapter on data protection in european law enforcement authorities, which is based on the directive on data protection in the police sector for the member states. that has been our demand from the beginning. here too, uniform standards facilitate the exchange of data. we would have liked this chapter to have applied from the outset to europol and the european public prosecutor's office, not just eurojust. we therefore call on the commission to submit the adjustment as soon as possible. i would like to thank you for the good cooperation, especially on behalf of mr jan philipp albrecht, who negotiated this for our group.
the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i thank the groups for their contributions. i would like to make two very brief remarks. the first is that commissioner jourová said that the area of foreign and security policy is missing here. that's right, you're right. unfortunately, the regulation could not do that. we have to look in the treaties again to see how we can do this in the best way possible. the second is my request, also to the commissioner, to put pressure on the council. we want e-privacy to be negotiated and not just talked about and some stuff said in the media in the member states that is not true. it's very, very important that eprivacy actually gets into the negotiations here and in this legislature. we find everything else really bad. the council has not really been on good ground here. we are asking - and i am certainly speaking for the other groups in this case - to put pressure. i can't go on like this. the council must act.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the council welcomed the package of communications presented by the commission in january 2018 and actions undertaken to deliver on the 2015 action plan on the circular economy. this is reflected in a set of council conclusions adopted by the environment council on 25 june 2018. the council calls for a high-level political commitment to be maintained for an ambitious implementation of the whole circular economy action plan. in this context, its conclusions emphasise that the transition to a truly circular economy involves closing the loop of product life circles and turning them into real value chains through greater recycling. furthermore, reuse is closely interconnected with creating non-toxic material cycles where substances of concerning products and waste are soundly managed and reduced to a minimum. this is also underlined in the resolution by the european parliament on this topic. a more consistent approach between chemical and waste rules is therefore required. it is necessary to establish clearly, together with all stakeholders, what is a substance of concern and how to deal with the presence of such substances in recycled materials. information to the consumers and all actors in the value chain on the possible presence of substances of concern in materials is of greatest importance. in this respect, the council welcomes, as you do in your draft resolution, the recently agreed provisions of the revised waste framework directive that complement existing reach (registration, evaluation, authorisation and restriction of chemicals) obligations for suppliers to inform their customers when articles contain substances of very high concern. a relevant tracking system throughout the supply chain should also encompass all products imported into the union that may contain substances of concern. secondary raw materials need, in principle, to meet the same criteria as primary raw materials. however, the detoxification of waste containing legacy substances might, in certain cases, require a differentiated approach that also adequately controls the risks for human health and the environment. in this respect, the council encourages the commission’s action to develop a methodology addressing the management of waste containing substances of concern. the council encourages member states to make use of all possibilities under the ecodesign directive or other product-specific legislation to promote the circularity of products and to support voluntary methods and approaches regarding the substitution of materials containing substances of concern as early as the design phase. the council underlines that it is important for end-of-waste criteria to be implemented effectively and favours the establishment of guidelines that allow a clear distinction between waste and product status to avoid the need for operators to comply with two sets of rules. efforts to harmonise these criteria should focus firstly on the most important waste streams. finally, the council calls urgently on the commission in particular for concrete actions to be taken to remove technical, financial and market barriers preventing recycling and the uptake of secondary raw materials. effective measures are needed to avoid, remove, or reduce the presence of substances of concern as much and as soon as possible to ensure non-toxic material cycles.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i really want to thank the parliament and especially the rapporteur, honourable member mark demesmaeker, and all shadows for a very positive approach towards the plastics strategy. the strategy is fully in line with the thinking and approach we first put forward in the circular economic action plan. it addresses the whole value chain and creates synergies between economic and environmental goals. as you rightly recall in your report, the strategy aims at fostering a new plastics economy where reuse and recycling activities are truly integrated in the production chains, delivering great added value and prosperity in europe, for example by improving the dialogue and cooperation across the value chain, addressing all its key players from plastics producers to end-users and recyclers. to this end, the wider plastics industry is currently working on voluntary commitments, and a pledging campaign is ongoing to support objectives of this strategy by increasing the uptake of recycled contents in new products. the goal is very simple: to ensure that by 2030 all plastic packaging is reusable or recyclable; that more than half of eu plastics waste is recycled – today it’s only 30%; and that demand for recycled plastics in europe grows at least four-fold. today, only 6% of the plastics used in products put on the eu market comes from recycling. to support innovation in this field and guide future funding decisions, the commission will develop a strategic research innovation agenda for plastics. in the meantime, and by 2020, horizon 2020 will have invested more than eur 350 million in plastics innovation. also, financial incentives are an important way to steer the policies towards a more sustainable future. as you highlighted in your report, in the proposal for the next long-term budget, the commission foresees a member state contribution based on the amount of non-recycled plastics packaging waste. such a contribution putting for the very first time at the eu level the price of the negative externality of not recycling will help implement the waste package and the plastics strategy. the plastics strategy will also help deliver the eu’s energy union vision for low-carbon energy-efficient economy. in terms of co2 savings, recycling only half of all plastic waste generated in the eu each year would be equivalent to taking off the roads more than 13 million cars. the strategy also announced a new legislative initiative to reduce litter from single-use plastics items and fishing gear. this initiative is already being negotiated by the european parliament and the council, as you know. besides, the plastics strategy also features action to reduce pollution from microplastics, the legislative proposal on port reception facilities to tackle sea-based marine litter and the preparation of new labelling rules to ensure that consumers get clear information about biodegradable and compostable plastics. action is ongoing on all these fronts. regarding the second question – the oral question submitted by the parliament in relation to the interface between chemical products and waste legislation – we very much appreciate the parliament’s interest in this area. in 2015, the commission made a commitment to assess the issues. this is exactly what we have done in the communication which we published in january. we identified four main issues and we set out a list of planned actions. these actions will be delivered or well under way by the end of the mandate of the current commission in 2019. what has been done so far? we published guidelines to promote a more coherent approach to waste classification. we launched a study to develop a specific decision-making methodology to support the decision on the recyclability of waste containing substances of concern. we are also preparing to launch two further studies. firstly, the visibility study on the use of the information system to enable information on the presence of substances of concern in materials to be available to recyclers. secondly, the study of member states’ practices as regards implementation and verification of end-of-waste provisions. the interface communication is currently being considered by stakeholders, and an open consultation is running until the end of october. at the end of this process, the commission will consider the most effective and inclusive way forward for addressing the identified challenges. however, while this is all ongoing work which is on track, i am happy to point out that there have already been some spin-off developments. we found that addressing chemicals of concern in food packaging is not sufficient, because there is a risk of incidental contamination with substances that were not originally present in plastic materials but may originate from use or mis-use of plastics. this situation could prevent effective recycling of food packaging, which is a significant market. therefore, in the framework of the regulation on food contact materials, the commission is currently working on the applications related to around 100 recycling processes to de-contaminate recycled pet to make that material suitable for food packaging. on batteries, we are going to monitor the coherence of different legislative instruments to ensure a smooth functioning of the internal market for batteries, waste batteries and materials coming from recycled batteries. also, following the recent adoption of the amendments to the waste framework directive, the commission and the european chemicals agency are looking into establishing a database for the future collection of information on substances of very high concern in articles. such a database would also help to promote non-toxic material recycling and improve the risk management of chemicals during repair and other forms of refuse- and waste-recovering process. with this summary, i trust that you will agree with me that a significant amount of work is already under way to address the interface between chemical products and waste legislation.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it was a very fruitful collaboration. the commission has already made a great deal of progress, and as someone who has been in this house for a long time, i would suggest the alternative: let us show how much the member states have implemented. i'm not taking my country out of it. the whole row where the council presidency is sitting would be full, because there are an unimaginable number of things that have not been implemented in europe in the waste sector. and that's actually unfortunate. mr demesmaeker referred to the figures: 140 million tonnes of plastic waste are floating in the oceans - that is the equivalent of half the size of europe. i've been told that you can see the plastic plates -- i think there's only five of them on this planet -- from space. so there's reason enough to do something about it. and i think we also have to be aware that 70 percent of this waste is also sitting in the deep waters and it's not going to be easy to get out of there. we drink it, we taste it, and we breathe plastic. and that's an important reason, because we find it in honey, we find it in meat, we find it in all sorts of circumstances. that's one reason we have to get to the bottom of it. and the implication is that we're going to see this in health someday. and i'm not really a fearful man, but i also don't want to hide the fact that plastic is a great success for society, because we have it for keeping food fresh and so on, and so on, and it's used to make blood bags and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on, and so on. and, commissioner, you are right, and so is mr demesmaeker: we must deal with it better, we must have a conscious process in our minds and really think about what we are doing with it. we've increased our plastic by 20 times since 1960. all of this is reason enough to actually increase the 30% we recycle so far. we will all work together to achieve this, and i am pleased that this report will not be a punishment for industry but a motivation to drive innovation forward.
blue-card question. – dear colleague, are there any other scientific arguments in favour of oxo-biodegradable plastics other than the fact that it’s produced in your constituency?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. and this is not about demonizing plastic, because this material can be useful in many areas. we must, however, try to stem the tide of plastic products and, above all, to reuse and recycle as much as we can. the question is, how can we encourage companies to operate with less material consumption? how can we encourage them to build this avoidance aspect into standards? the ecodesign directive must also be extended to plastic products. how can we get tax rates to promote something we want, and then also discourage certain kinds of plastic use? we also need greater public awareness campaigns to make citizens aware of how these products are handled and disposed of. and i want to say one more thing: if we are going to use substitute materials, we have to look very carefully at whether they are really better. there's a lot of things that might not be as good as they look.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. for 60 years now, plastic has made our lives easier in many ways, and it is part of life, of everyday life, and we can't think of it without it. but it has very problematic consequences. it is everywhere, even where we don't want it: in rivers, in soil and even in the sea. and that's a big problem that we have right now. three-quarters of the world's marine litter is plastic, and 300 million tons of products containing plastic are produced in the global market each year. we can only recycle 30% here in the eu, and only 6% is recycled. that's not enough! so we need to think about what we can do to improve that. i'm working on the ship-waste policy and seeing what you can do to actually bring all the garbage ashore. that's one thing. we had a big plastic exhibition across my ocean group recently, in april, where you could look and see what science has found out, what different kinds of plastics are out there, and what harm they can do. and then it's also, as jo leinen just said, it's also really a lot of opportunities to invest in new product lines, in alternative materials that we can use, or even in start-ups that clean up the ocean and take out the garbage everywhere. so we have a lot of room to improve on that, and we should definitely do that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the policy makers face three main challenges on the plastic front. first, we need to make the public aware of how far we've come to a point where plastic waste threatens to overwhelm us, so that plastic is even showing up in our food. second, we need to make it clear to the public that there is another way. and thirdly, we need to create a reliable framework for this, which will allow citizens to actually move around sensibly without so much plastic waste. the commission has put forward an ambitious strategy to this end, which we all welcome. you have all made many arguments in this regard. it is important to realize, as the saying goes, that nothing is as powerful as an idea whose time has come. it's time for the idea that plastic waste must go away - not be thrown away, but not created in the first place. and that's why i want to encourage as many of you as possible to join us on global cleanup day on september 15th, where we commit to a global commitment to not let plastic waste dominate our future.
i have to say, madam president, the commission president, mr juncker, said earlier in his speech that the proposals in the plastics strategy must be implemented before the elections. i am of the opinion that we must be ambitious here, because the commission's proposals deserve it. the problem of plastic waste is a problem that affects many areas, such as the pollution of the oceans. tomorrow we will vote on the so-called harbour catchment facilities in the environment committee. the aim is not to dump the waste from ships at sea but to dump it in ports. to have an incentive for this, we need a system of flat-rate charges so that it costs no ships to deliver garbage into ports. i am looking in particular to my colleagues on the committee on transport and tourism, who will be voting on this after us and who may be guided by our report. and then, of course, there's a big problem of microplastics that end up in the environment, for example, from car tires or from washing machine abrasion. we are going to have to resort to filter technology sooner or later if we do not reduce consumption, and i do not want the cost to be borne by consumers alone.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, the report being debated today is of the highest importance for public health. i would like to thank the rapporteur, ms kadenbach, for her personal commitment and determination in leading this work, as well as the committees that have been involved in the preparation. we often take antimicrobials for granted, relying on them and believing that they will always be there to protect us. if you will allow me a personal note from my professional past as a medical doctor and a cardiac surgeon, i would like to stress how painful sepsis and death can be in situations where antibiotics can no longer help. i am also particularly struck by the very high speed with which resistance to bacteria has recently progressed, since the first therapeutic use of antibiotics less than a century ago in 1941. excessive and inappropriate use of antimicrobials in humans, animals and plants and poor infection-control practices have led to growing antimicrobial resistance (amr). this resistance has progressively transformed into a serious threat to public health worldwide. honourable members, let me remind you, as ms kadenbach also did, that 25 000 people die annually in the eu alone as a result of infections caused by resistant bacteria. some estimate that if current infection and resistance trends continue, there could be 10 million deaths per year worldwide by 2050. in simple terms, there is a risk of reverting to a world where some common infections are no longer treatable. the european union was quick to recognise the importance of tackling antimicrobial resistance, as the 2001 ‘community strategy against antimicrobial resistance’ shows. this policy was reinforced with the 2011 commission action plan, and last year a new and comprehensive eu action plan on antimicrobial resistance was adopted, pursuing the ‘one health’ approach recognising that human health, animal health and the environment are interconnected. you will remember that i came to present that plan to the various relevant committees of the house. this milestone clearly underlined the commission’s commitment to step up our actions to tackle the huge challenge of antimicrobial resistance. the new action plan contains concrete measures with eu added value. it supports the eu and its member states in delivering innovative, effective and sustainable responses to antimicrobial resistance. it also reinforces the research agenda and enables the eu to promote global action and play a leading role in the fight against amr. a first progress report was published in april of this year and it will be updated regularly let me mention a few examples. first, the commission published eu guidelines on the prudent use of antimicrobials in human health in july 2017. second, a joint action project on antimicrobial resistance and healthcare-associated infections started in september 2017. this brings member states and other stakeholders together to support the development and implementation of effective health policies against antimicrobial resistance and to reduce healthcare-associated infections. a second joint interagency antimicrobial consumption and resistance analysis (jiacra) report was published in july 2017 by the european medicine agency, the european food safety authority and the european centre for disease prevention and control, and we can now see the common efforts of the three agencies. each provides evidence-based data on the correlation between antimicrobial consumption and resistance in humans and food-producing animals, and this will enable member states to tailor their antimicrobial resistance policies better to the local context. next, the commission is providing training sessions for veterinary and public health staff from national authorities involved in amr control, under the so-called better training for safer food programme, and is carrying out joint commission-european centre for disease control visits to member states on request in the context of the implementation of national ‘one health’ action plans against amr. meetings of the one health network government experts from human health, animal health and the environmental sector, as well as eu scientific agencies, are organised regularly and i am very glad that your report will be presented at the network meeting next month. lastly, as to global activities, we can assure you that we will pursue our efforts in various forums, notably the g7 and g20, and in collaboration with the world organisation for animal health (oie), the world health organisation, the un food and agriculture organisation and the oecd. antimicrobial resistance is indeed a global threat which requires global action. that means too that we have a collective responsibility to ensure that eu member states deliver on the commitment they made when they endorsed the 2015 global action plan on amr. furthermore, the negotiations on the new eu regulation on veterinary medicine and on medicated feed are now successfully concluded and i am glad that the house will vote on the outcome of these trilogue negotiations no later than next month. this is a major milestone in the fight against amr. indeed, the draft regulation includes a ban on the preventive use of antibiotics in groups of animals, as well as the possibility of reserving certain antimicrobials for humans only. in addition, the 2006 ban on antibiotics as feed additives is now broadened to cover the use of all antimicrobial veterinary products as growth promoters in animals. this will be an important further step in the responsible and prudent use of antibiotics in the eu. madam president, honourable members, the report we are debating today is of great importance. it contains many valuable suggestions on ways to go further in our common fight against amr and i will carefully analyse all the proposals you have made. antimicrobial resistance will only get worse in the future if we do not continue to act together: not only the commission but also the european parliament, the member states and, of course, all the stakeholders involved in the use of antimicrobials must reinforce our efforts. we need to do so to avoid a return to the pre-antibiotic era, with simple wounds and infections causing significant harm and even death, and routine medical procedures being very risky. that would be a really bad scenario. i look forward to the adoption of this report and i thank the house for its continued commitment. (applause)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not prepared to accept this. antibiotic resistant germs are a huge and growing threat to health and life. so many sick, disabled for life, dead, caused by these germs. we urgently need new antibiotics. but they are not available, and development is expensive and takes a long time - up to twenty years if it succeeds at all. we urgently need alternatives to antibiotics. but those alternatives don't exist, at least not yet. we must encourage development. so we have to be much more responsible with what we have. half of all antibiotics are misused by the patient, but they are also misprescribed by the medical staff. people know too little about it. most people think antibiotics just help with everything, from the common cold to the flu, to viruses. but this is wrong, and we need to re-enshrine this in our society, so that people know this, so that they also understand why these resistances are spreading and that everyone can be affected by this - it does not always affect only others - that therefore everyone can and must contribute to slowing down or even stopping this development, if this is still possible. for example, old medication doesn't belong in the toilet. hygiene is an important aspect, and it starts with -- as trivial as it sounds -- hand washing, which of course is especially important in health care. the medical staff also needs to be trained even better. infection prevention is the key word here, especially important in dealing with the elderly and sick. all this and much more has already been said in our report. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups for their very constructive cooperation. but there is one point which we must improve tomorrow: i would ask you to join me in deleting recital 63, which calls for the labelling of foodstuffs with regard to the use of antibiotics in livestock. this is unnecessary and would even amount to a subsidy to the detriment of conventional agriculture, since animal products can only be marketed without antibiotics. this is why we have to have a waiting period after the use of medicines in animal husbandry.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i should like to begin by thanking mrs kadenbach for her report and the commissioner for dealing with the subject in such a prominent way. i would have liked the president of the commission to have said the same thing today, because amr is a time bomb and it is getting worse. so it really bothers me that we're not addressing this more aggressively, because it's also one of the reasons for amr, that we're using too many antibiotics in many areas in an abusive and unnecessary way. it starts in human medicine, that for cold sores antibiotics are still prescribed. it's completely unnecessary. but there is too much use of antibiotics in the animal-farming sector. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we can't afford to do that. the cheap meat will eventually become very expensive if we continue like this. and we should also point out that more antibiotics are used in animal feed than in human food. it can't stay that way. we must also ensure that reserve antibiotics are finally no longer used in the animal sector. and we need to prevent the transmission of antibiotic resistance from animals to humans, so to speak. i think we're all agreed on this. we need more training, we need more research, especially in the direction of alternatives. the use of antibiotics must be the last resort, not the first resort. otherwise we can't get anywhere.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. commissioner andriukaitis, you know that i come from germany, and that is why i would like to start by mentioning a worrying figure from my country of origin. in 2017, six times more antibiotics were used in animal agriculture than in human medicine. already, thousands of people die each year in germany from antibiotic resistance. the german government ignores public health when it comes to farmers' profits. but let's talk about europe. multiresistant germs infect millions of patients in european hospitals every year and are responsible for an estimated 90 000 preventable deaths. if a human being in the eu is killed by antibiotic resistance, then our failed agricultural policy is to blame in large measure. for too long we have turned a blind eye to the problem and allowed mass animal production to become the pharmaceutical industry's money maker. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. i hope that you, commissioner andriukaitis, will now make nails with heads and not act as you did in my own-initiative report on rabbit farming. we're still in the clinch. and by the way, you know how many antibiotics are used in this sector. in conclusion, i would like to thank mrs kadenbach very much for this report and i hope that it will be adopted by a large majority.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the report deals with a very serious subject, namely amr, the multidrug resistance of bacteria. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's health system is not undermined by the use of drugs. it is absolutely right and the direction of the objective is absolutely to be supported that we should take action against this and do what is right and necessary at this point, and that certainly includes urging some corrections in the livestock sector. however, i would like to remind you that we should not overstep the mark. we should not start with labelling obligations, production controls and a general attack on conventional agriculture - and this is very clear in some speeches - but we should not throw the baby out with the bath and exaggerate the right direction. even billions of claims will not make a pure organic farming in europe a success. what we need is prevention, but more research and, of course, the networking of national authorities on this important matter.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. do you want the future of mobility to be safe, sustainable and equitable? then we also have to make them innovative, digital and competitive. how we can do that: through smart drivers, vehicles and infrastructure. one step towards improving road safety is the mandatory installation of safety-related driver assistance systems. they can compensate for human error, which is responsible for about 92 percent of accidents. another step is to create an infrastructure that includes nationwide charging stations for sustainable fuels. in addition, this infrastructure must allow communication with the vehicles, especially during a transition phase towards the next level of automation. in all regulations we should take a technology-neutral approach which covers the entire footprint of vehicles. every transport operator must work on efficiency, because there is no technology that can solve all problems. and future mobility must be able to provide smooth door-to-door transport, even across borders. to this end, eu citizens should be able to book train, bus and air travel on multimodal platforms and, ideally, travel with a single ticket. neither the cleanest and lowest emission vehicles nor diesel driving bans can solve the main problem in cities namely congestion. this requires, among other things, attractive and reliable local public transport, which also allows safe and pleasant arrivals for the last part of a journey. all of this will go much further than a simple ban on diesel vehicles.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. sometimes it's like writing an essay: the topic is so interesting, there's so much to say, and then you write and write, and sometimes you can't even recognize the original core theme and the core problem. i would like to go back to the subject at hand. the real problem was: does the european licensing and approval procedure meet the objectives it claims to achieve? and from our point of view, i have to say no three times. it should be less bureaucratic: the goal was not achieved. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. and it should be more transparent and cheaper, even if it doesn't achieve that goal. the main problem is that although we have crossborder zonal authorization, there is still no mutual recognition between the member states. in practice, this means that on one side of the river in austria a product can be used, and on the other side of the river in germany the national approval is still pending with a delay of several years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i simply ask that in the midst of the fury of the debate and the problematic, we do not forget this central issue in the political debate of the day. i would also like to thank our rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs who have partly leaked the report.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his report. this shows that the system has significant flaws. it's not the problem, too much bureaucracy or too expensive. on the contrary, we must improve the system and test it better. we can see that we have serious shortcomings in the approval procedure. the problem is clearly a lack of transparency. and we have the problem that member states are not implementing properly. how can it be that we ban neonicotinoids and other member states continue to allow them by way of derogation? that cannot and must not happen. we also have a problem with the evaluation of the substances, which must be stated quite clearly, namely that the environmental effects and the effects on beneficial insects are not sufficiently examined in the whole procedure. we've seen it with neonicotinoids. the procedure has been shown to be wrong, that we actually find 20 years later that the environmental impact of neonicotinoids is significantly greater than previously thought. so, yes, we are in agreement. we need to look at alternatives. but you have to invest in that. and we really need to be careful that we reduce the use of chemicals in the field. this can't go on.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs sehnalová, and our shadow rapporteur, mr ivan štefanec, because i believe that if the vote tomorrow goes in the right direction and we manage to avoid automatically including two different quality levels in article 6 of the unfair commercial practices directive, we will have achieved something important for the internal market. for us as the epp group it is clear, and mr štefanec has pointed this out directly: of course all consumers in europe - no matter where they come from - have the same rights. and that is how all companies in this single market must be measured. the commission has rightly indicated this in its proposal. i would like to thank you for that, commissioner. however, not all people in europe have the same taste. this is the challenge that businesses must face and the challenge that european legislators must also face. that's why it's right that we create transparency. but that is why there will continue to be products in portugal which contain a different fish than in poland. and although clearly both countries started with p, people may have different ideas of what a fishstick should taste like. and that's why there might be different taste patterns that need to be hit. that's why transparency is important, so that everyone involved knows what's in it. i hope that we can conclude the report in the end, as it was adopted in committee. i hope that colleagues will agree with me in the end. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. thank you for this opportunity to draw on another example. it took me a long time to understand that a certain brand of detergent in germany and france is based on completely different formulations, because in france, ammonia has traditionally been used as a chemical for cleaning people's noses, and in germany, chlorine. but here in the border area between germany and france we have never started the debate about whether the french are better served by ammonia or the germans by chlorine. but i admit that in the situation we are in in eastern europe and in europe as a whole, these differences of taste have of course a political relevance, and that is why i am quite prepared to say - and i have made this clear - that transparency is important. i would not go so far as to say that the points which are relevant to the internal market, which are of course important for manufacturers to be able to sell a product throughout europe in the long term, should be completely banned for that reason. if we can standardize the taste patterns in the bathroom and toilet rooms and somehow bring ammonia and chlorine together, i wouldn't have a problem with that. and i would not like to see us prohibiting manufacturers per se, because of course in the end there are costs to produce these chemicals and the internal market can only be fully effective if they can really choose the cheapest production options.
a writer. the commission is not do we really want to become partners in crime? because that's exactly what we're gonna be if we don't talk. if mps, if journalists are put behind bars, if beatings and torture in prison, that is, human rights violations, are the order of the day, then we greens cannot accept that. this has to stop! we greens are standing with bobi wine. bobi wine is not just an opposition leader, he is a galleon figure for young people, he teaches them peace and democracy, he advocates for human rights, and his voice must not be silenced. we demand the release of the prisoners. we demand an investigation into the incidents and criminal proceedings against the perpetrators, including the police. we must support uganda's own human rights commission in its development cooperation so that it does not remain a toothless tiger. we have the means to exert pressure here, and we must exert pressure here.
a writer. the commission is not uganda is an important country for stability in central and east africa. uganda is involved in peace-building in conflict areas. uganda has taken in many refugees from south sudan and the democratic republic of congo and is an important partner for the eu. the political situation in the country is of particular concern to us. since 1986, president museveni has ruled with a firm hand. it was only in the spring that he had the constitution amended so that he could remain in office without an age limit, even after the next elections. but dissatisfaction, especially among the young population - three quarters of all ugandans are under the age of 30 - is growing. and with the popular artist bobi wine entering politics on the side of the opposition, there is a serious opponent to museveni. in some constituencies, opposition candidates have already won by-elections. the nervousness of the museveni regime ahead of elections in two years was shown by the events in august, when bobi wine's drivers were shot after an election campaign event, bobi wine himself was jailed for treason and several of his party supporters and journalists were thrown in jail. we must find out what happened in august. we should strongly support democratic development.
a writer. the commission is not the burmese journalists wa lone and kyaw soe oo have dared to investigate in their country the murder of ten rohingya in the village of inn din. these crimes took place in the context of the military offensive, in which hundreds of thousands of rohingya were killed or displaced. they were convicted because the military and government are doing their best to leave the atrocities against the rohingya undocumented and unreconciled. we demand their immediate and unconditional release. the un commission of inquiry has impressively documented that the myanmar military is responsible for crimes against humanity and war crimes in its country and against the rohingya, possibly including genocide. they explicitly named military chief min aung hlaing and five other officers. the eu must make clear and unequivocal its demand that the military responsible be prosecuted by the international criminal court or an ad hoc tribunal, and that it should also adjust its own targeted sanctions, if necessary, when the report is discussed at the un human rights council next week.
a writer. the commission is not i thank you, mrs mogherini, for your statement, which was very supportive of the international criminal court in general. on cambodia: the elections in cambodia were neither free nor fair and resulted in the country becoming an autocratic one-party state. the price has been high: the country's largest opposition party has been virtually eliminated, independent journalists and human rights defenders have been intimidated and jailed. we demand that the government immediately drop the charges against opposition leader kem sokha and other opposition politicians, reverse the dissolution of the cnrp and seek dialogue with the opposition. we also call on the government to stop persecuting and jailing human rights activists and organizations. it is also necessary to extend the agreement with the office of the high commissioner for human rights, which expires in december. there are countless unresolved land conflicts in cambodia and it is welcome that the government has now compensated some families for lost land. however, these compensations are not systematic and impunity for expropriation remains widespread. in particular, the eu should push for a review of the 2015 requirements, in particular sugar licences, which are linked to land conflicts.
the next item is the debate on the long-awaited request for a written answer with debate by mr ivan jakovčić to the commission: declaring europe day a public holiday to promote eu values (g-000006/2018 - b8-0038/2018).
thank you very much, mr elissen. if i may take the liberty of expressing my own opinion, we are debating the so-called big question. it is up to individual members, with the support of their group, to put such large questions. it is common knowledge that this discussion of the major questions always takes place at the end of the plenary week. this afternoon there were 700 members present for the votes. there's no way they checked in this morning and then left. members of parliament usually go to work in their constituencies on friday. i'm not, i'm from stuttgart and i have a short way. i have two more groups of visitors tomorrow. so to give the impression that all the colleagues here sign in the morning and then leave, i think that is grossly negligent and also extremely uncollegial. moreover, as regards the impression of self-service democracy which you have given, i can humbly point out that it was parties belonging to your group which have now been obliged to repay funds used illegally and fraudulently. i would like to make a modest point here, just so that things do not remain uncontroversial. mr elissen, you may answer that. i don't want to take advantage of my position here.
before i give the commissioner the floor, i should like to point out that the proof of presence here is not the entry card we have here - mr elissen is leaving now, by the way - but that it is merely for security purposes. the presence is verified by other methods. it has nothing to do with the entry card.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for the very interesting debate. i would like to thank the european parliament, and especially ivan jakovčić, for driving forward the dialogue both here and with european citizens. i also thank those visitors who are here and who are listening to our debates, promoting and sharing our common values, as well as fostering discussions on topical european policy issues that are indeed essential for european citizens to reflect on, and on the european project, and becoming aware of their european identity. such discussions are particularly important in the run-up to the european elections next may, as democratic participation is key to the european project. i would like to send this message here to all of us. the commission will continue to use europe day as an occasion to inform european citizens about the eu in general, and our common values in particular. the commission is truly committed to engaging in open dialogue with our citizens on societal issues, and we will use all our resources to do so. today we have heard different opinions. i am proud that we have had a good opportunity to listen to each other and to hear various opinions. of course, having a european day would create such an opportunity on a much broader scale. some speakers mentioned ‘democratically elected people’, but sometimes democratically elected people do not act in line with democratic process, the rule of law or democratic values. what can we do when we see that democracy has vanished? that is a question for all of us. it will be very important to continue our debates and to send the message to our citizens that they need more citizens’ dialogue. it would be good to ask citizens to take initiatives, to use the eu citizens initiative, and to debate interests in a broader sense, asking member state parliaments and governments too to express their opinion. personally, i very much like the idea of having such a day. however, as a commission, we should respect all the complexities and ask the citizens – here in this room and everywhere. let’s start our debates together and then, maybe at election campaign time, we can use the possibility really to move forward – once again opening doors for all views, whether from the national front or any other quarter. we should raise those issues together – showing that democracy is only one way but that respect for democracy must be introduced.
the debate is closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would also like to say on behalf of my co-rapporteur, sabine verheyen, that we no longer consider such a debate necessary. we have now been discussing this directive in all its details for two and a half years. we have received a broad negotiating mandate from parliament to enter into informal trilogue negotiations with the council. in these informal trilogue negotiations, we have brought together widely divergent positions in a well-balanced overall artwork. and we believe that we believe that further debate here in the european parliament will not add any value, especially since we have to decide tomorrow whether to accept or reject the text in its entirety. because if you broke a little piece of mosaic here, the whole text would collapse into itself. i am a little surprised that it is precisely those who have not participated in the trilogue negotiations or who have only participated in trace elements of it who are proposing the debate.
the next item is the debate on the report by soledad cabezón ruiz, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the assessment of health technologies and amending directive 2011/24/eu (com ((2018) 0051 - c8-0024/2018 - 2018/0018 ((cod)) (a8-0289/2018).
i think the liberals have been sneaking in a little. but now the speakers of the groups have the floor, starting with the group of the european people's party, mrs grossetête.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. imagine if there were beings from another planet and they were looking at the system, how medicines and other products are marketed in europe. we have a european medicines agency - currently still in london, soon in amsterdam - which is working very well. and there you are, as someone who wants to bring a new drug to market, getting approval for the whole of the european union, if you have all the data that you need on the table. then you want to make that medicine available to the patient. but then you have to go through 28 different procedures in 28 countries and collect additional data -- scientific data -- to answer the questions that the authorities have about this drug. in some member states there are even regional procedures for hta, which makes the whole thing even more complicated. i think it's a waste of resources, it increases costs. the highly skilled pharmacists, the medical doctors who are collecting additional data, they should be doing research on new drugs that are better for patients. and it also delays access to medicines. it is therefore very, very good that the environment committee has adopted the report by a large majority. i thank the rapporteur, mrs cabezón ruiz, and i thank mrs grossetête, who has done this for the epp. and i'm also grateful for some clarification. we want the scientific work to be done together. because whether a cancer drug prolongs the life of a patient by three years compared to standard therapy, or not at all, or only by three months, this is no different in germany than in france or spain. we're a little different, but we're not so different that drugs have completely different effects. that's why you can do it european. and the question of what is reimbursed is a matter of national competence. we have made this clear again in the committee vote. i'm very grateful for that. this may also help us to get the council of ministers' approval sooner. the epp has a few more amendments to table, and i ask for your support. the most important one, in my view, is how the decision is taken in the body that carries out the benefit assessment. we are for the qualified majority. the council of ministers has long been at loggerheads over how to do this. and this is an ideal instrument. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the necessary measures. and that is the principle of democracy in europe. we should apply that here. it is also technically sound and will help us to get approval in countries such as spain and france and, unfortunately, in my own country, which is still reluctant to do so. i'm convinced of that after the talks. that's why i'm asking for backup. we will support this report, also because it is important for us as the epp to bring innovative medicines, for example against cancer, to the market faster. that's what we're fighting for.
i have to say, madam president, i too would like to begin by thanking my colleague, mrs cabezón ruiz, for her really very good work. the citizens of the european union must be able to rely on the fact that the newly introduced blood pressure reducer or hip joint of the next generation is really of the highest standard, in france as much as in the netherlands or spain. the present proposal will ensure that. we will ensure that the proposal does not weaken high standards while taking advantage of the benefits of european standardisation of authorisation. although crossborder cooperation at strategic and technical level has existed for years, it has become clear that cooperation on a voluntary basis is neither effective nor efficient. the european union is currently not ensuring that new health technologies are assessed according to the same criteria. but it should be! not to mention the time and expense involved in repeating complex studies. by harmonising at european level, we minimise the risk of fragmented and delayed treatment access within member states and ensure better access to medicines and medical devices for people in the european union. we want to improve the quality and efficiency of healthcare interventions and improve the sustainability of healthcare systems. a european hta will help in this respect. finally, cooperation at eu level is strengthened and competent authorities are supported in assessing the real added value of new therapeutic options for patients. patients, their welfare and, above all, rapid access to medicines and new therapies are at the heart of this legislation, and they are of direct benefit to all europeans. we are thus safeguarding the fundamental right of the union to access health care.
author. – mr president, more than a year ago, reports of the persecution of members of the lgbti community surfaced in chechnya. since then, a lot of time has passed. the call for an independent investigation has been ignored and ignored again. the strategy behind that is absolutely clear. all those who are trying to block an independent investigation are telling themselves that the more time passes, the more likely it is that the other side is going to get tired. the more time passes, the more likely it is there is actually never going to be an independent investigation, and the more time passes, the more likely it is the other side – we – will give up. well, this is to all those who are trying to block an independent investigation. the truth is pretty simple. in its history, the lgbti community has faced rejection, persecution, intimidation and torture. you probably think that makes us weak, but the opposite is true. over the years we have endured so much, we have suffered so much and we will not give up so easily, not on the streets, not the brave activists in russia and elsewhere and not here in this parliament. we are persistent. we will ask for an independent investigation over and over again, and we do not forget one single case. but we will need support. we will need support from the commission. we will need the commission to stand side by side with the brave lgbti activists. this is not only because we are calling for an independent investigation, but also because we need the commission to stay credible to its commitment to international and universal human rights. so do not stay silent. speak up in this case and defend human rights.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. chechen society is extremely conservative, islamic and violent. some of the worst isis killers are chechens. in western europe, chechens are known for their success in organized crime, in addition to their many acts of aggression. it is naive to think that this society can be changed from the outside. president kadyrov responds with violence and conservative policies. he only listens to putin because he's afraid of putin. and putin is holding on to kadyrov because he's struggling to control this swathe of territory. just a month ago, five islamist children, including an 11-year-old, attacked a police station in chechnya. all five boys died as martyrs. if russia ever gets tired of kadyrov, the russians will intervene again with violence. we can't have that. there have certainly been many serious attacks on homosexuals, and of course this is to be condemned. it is true that this is a subject which is repeatedly raised at diplomatic level. but change needs the support of civil society, and i can't see that. we should try to expel as many chechen islamists and criminals as possible who are financing these structures from western europe. we should not complicate our own guilt by tolerating their behavior here. we should also stop supporting islamic missionary activity in europe, such as that by the ditib. europe, with its advanced model of enlightened society and its accumulated wealth, can be a model for other societies. we are giving up easily at the moment.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, when we meet in october, leaders will return to the key themes recently discussed at the informal summit in salzburg: migration, security and brexit. first, the european council will discuss migration. we should continue working on all aspects of our comprehensive approach. to start with, we must do better in taking the fight to people-smuggling networks, from monitoring and disrupting their communications online to supporting cooperation between our police forces. protecting our external borders and facilitating returns are of course key. in addition to everything that has already been done in this respect, the discussions in salzburg showed the sheer determination that the recent commission proposals should be examined as a matter of priority. finally, we need to work more closely with countries of origin and transit by building new partnerships. this means, in particular, reaching out to african countries to expand and deepen our cooperation. in this context, chancellor kurz and the president of the european council, president tusk, recently met president al-sisi in cairo and in new york to intensify cooperation. during the informal discussions in salzburg, backing from the european council was found for this and similar dialogues. in the coming weeks, chancellor kurz, president tusk, the commission and a group of member states will continue reaching out to other african partners. as agreed in salzburg, there will be an eu—arab league summit in february 2019 in this respect. the european council in october will look into all these issues, and the chancellor will report on the reform of the common european asylum system and on the prospect of progress on its various elements. second, the european council will agree on immediate priorities to strengthen our internal security. in the past few years, we have achieved much collectively, including through important legislation agreed with this parliament, from the passenger name record to the fight against terrorism financing, as well as better police, judicial and intelligence cooperation. we have certainly made headway. we need to continue this work, while focusing on effective implementation. fostering a strong sense of security in europe is our collective responsibility and, indeed, a priority of the presidency. safeguarding our security also means being prepared for new types of threats, whether they take to form of cybercrime, disinformation or any type of manipulation. how we should adapt to this evolving environment was a central issue for the leaders in salzburg. one thing is clear: ahead of the next european elections, we need to protect our democratic processes. in the light of events, the european council may also discuss international developments, but strengthening security is also about building up resilience to any kind of risks and being prepared when crises strike, be it as a result of hybrid attacks or natural disasters. forest fires this summer demonstrated the importance of european cooperation in that field. the european council will address these issues in october, but the leaders’ reflections on the longer-term aspects will also feed into the preparation of the next strategic agenda. finally, on brexit, the european council will need an article 50 format to review the state of negotiations with the united kingdom. as president tusk said in salzburg, this european council will be the moment of truth for the brexit negotiations, where we expect maximum progress and results in the brexit talks.
president of the commission. good morning mr president, madam president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be very brief this morning, since the president-in-office of the council has summed up the results or near-results of the informal summit in salzburg perfectly. it was an informal meeting, therefore no conclusions were drawn. however, i must welcome the fact that, in general terms - not in detail but on the main principles - the proposals recently and previously submitted to the attention and reflection of the co-legislator have received fairly broad support. there is no agreement on anything except on a few points, notably on the commission's proposals to remove terrorist messages from the internet within one hour, or on the protection of the results of the european elections and the protection of the electoral campaign leading up to that important date. on the other points, the european council expressed the view that all the proposals submitted by the commission should be treated as absolute priorities at the forthcoming council and at the december council. this concerns both the reform of the dublin system and the protection of the external borders. in this connection, i was surprised that those who have been calling for better protection of the external borders are now moving hesitantly towards the comprehensive solution proposed by the commission. as regards the security union, the commission's proposals were widely agreed by the member states. i would like to see us agreeing by the end of the year on the reform of the dublin system, which can no longer wait, and agreeing on the exact outlines of the protection of the external borders. as far as brexit is concerned, i do not want to add remarks to the remarks already made by the president of the council. we will have an interesting meeting as far as brexit is concerned. just two points: we want a deal. those who think that no deal would be the better solution are not aware of the difficulties such a scenario would imply. when it comes to the border between the republic of ireland and northern ireland, we are sticking to the point of view we have expressed so many times. ireland first.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, before we talk about the next european council, it is really worth looking back to salzburg, because there was something unique, namely unity on brexit, and that was good to see. 27 member states united in one main message, and this message was that when we talk about brexit, we are not only always focusing about what is going on in great britain. we talk a lot about the tory convention, we talk about how a majority in the house of commons is possible. we first of all underline – when we talk about brexit – what we believe in. i want to mention one concrete example about the freedom of movement, which was so heavily discussed in the brexit referendum campaign. the idea that millions of europeans can freely decide where they want to earn their money and where they want to live with their families is a huge achievement in view of the history of europe. i hope that the brits can simply understand that we still believe in this idea and that we still want to defend it. that was a big achievement of salzburg, that we clarified our position in this regard. this is not about punishment, it’s simply about the question that we stick to the four principles of the single market, the four freedoms which we worked on during the last decades. brexit is a tragedy, that’s clear, but it shows all those people what populism means, what populism brings – less growth, less certainty and less future. now we experience a new level of populism when the foreign minister of great britain, jeremy hunt, is again comparing the european union with the soviet union. i don’t want to answer, i only want to quote the former foreign minister of poland, radosław sikorski, he said ‘please, mr hunt, show us the gulag. please, mr hunt, show us the soviet union army troops in your country. please show us the stasi system in your country.’ sikorski is right; mr hunt, you should apologise for what you said. (loud applause) brexit means leaving the european union and this means losing the advantages of this union. that is the simple principle behind this. the biggest challenge for the politicians in great britain, like hunt and johnson, is probably that after march next year they have to take over responsibility. for the first time, they will have to explain to people what they did, what are the mistakes of their political engagement, and they cannot blame brussels anymore for what is happening in great britain. that will be a big change for them. for us, we will not answer to these provocations in the same way. we will simply define what is important for us and for the european people’s party (epp) family. i want to clarify that the citizens are at the centre of the whole debate in two main questions. firstly, about the northern ireland border: i fully support jean claude juncker’s ‘ireland first’, since we don’t accept a treaty that would lead to a hard border, put at risk the good friday agreement, or put at risk the peace process. secondly, on the millions of eu citizens in great britain and millions of british citizens in the european union: we must find a way to guarantee the legal status of these citizens, even in the case of a hard brexit. even in the case of a hard brexit, we need an idea for a ring-fencing agreement to guarantee the legal status of these citizens. not money, markets or products are important; for us, citizens are important. on brexit, a never—ending story is going on. our principles are clear: border protection, border control, ten thousand frontex officers. i and my group have no understanding why there is opposition to the idea that we share the burden of border protection between the european level and the national level, to do it together. why is there is opposition to this? we cannot understand this. a second point is that europe must be still a continent that is ready to help people in need. we need a strong and an ambitious resettlement programme, and we should not reopen the dossiers which we have already agreed in this migration dossier. the third point: today we look to syria, but tomorrow we will look more and more to africa. that is why europe cannot have a good future if our neighbour continent, africa, is in a chaotic situation. that is why we have to care. we have to do our best to help. finally, one short remark on the eurasia summit, which is also taking place in two weeks’ time. we are partners. the european people’s party is a party of free and fair trade. the us stopped the trans-pacific partnership agreement. the us wants to build up walls and, having this in mind, europe must be the continent that wants to build bridges. we want to work together with our asian friends, but with the idea of a common level playing field. for example, on investment security we need a common understanding of what this means and we have to defend our critical infrastructure and our critical industry, so not all investments in the european union are free-market based investments, and that’s why we have to do more on this to guarantee really free and fair trade. we shouldn’t be naive, we should defend our interests and we should be united on this. finally, because trade is also an issue, let me underline that the americans have concluded with our canadian friends a trade agreement. that shows us that washington is still ready for a compromise, probably that is a good moment after the successful trip of jean claude juncker to washington. this is the moment to give a new mandate to the commission to start real negotiations with our american friends. we would support a free trade area between europe and the us without tariffs.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, colleagues, let me share in the criticism of the irresponsible leadership in the united kingdom. but even more, mr president of the council, we have to make a difference, and here the questions are going to start. one month after salzburg – and my group was looking forward to salzburg and to making progress in solidarity – there is no solidarity. it is stuck, and the council is not delivering solutions; the council is collecting failures. meps represent hard-working people, hard-working people who are looking for solutions to our major problems, but there is no delivery. look at the reform of the asylum system. we had an awkward summer where people started dying at sea again. even the eu missions were in danger, because harbours were closed. what do you say to this? where is the reaction? where is the policy for better solidarity and new solutions? and let me ask you this: what gives you the right to push for the unpacking of the asylum package, which was voted in this house by an overwhelming majority? warum haben sie das recht, diese form der solidarität zu zerstören, die es hier gegeben hat? und was versprechen sie sich davon, wenn sie weiter blockieren, dass es eine asylreform gibt? this is what i cannot understand, and this is what we are critical of. we have a common responsibility as europeans to overcome the major challenges of our time. migration is a global phenomenon, and we need to shoulder it if europe is to be a credible project for our citizens. if europe is humanity and dignity, as our treaties say we are, europe has to stand as the global player for the good. but we also have to tackle those domestic issues that are worries for our people. let me ask... lassen sie mich fragen, frau präsidentin: wann ist sozialer schutz, sind die rechte der arbeitnehmerinnen und arbeitnehmer, der kampf gegen die kinderarmut zuletzt das hauptthema eines gipfels gewesen? warum setzen sie das nicht auf die tagesordnung? warum widmen wir uns nicht diesen problemen, die die menschen umtreiben und die dringend einer antwort bedürfen? wir müssen das zusammen angehen, aber ich sehe blockaden. bisher sind sie nicht der ehrliche broker, bisher ist diese präsidentschaft nicht der brückenbauer, bisher haben sie keinen durchbruch erzielt. meine botschaft an sie ist heute: sagen sie doch bitte herrn strache und herrn kurz, dass sie auf dem falschen weg sind, wenn sie versuchen, europa weiter zu spalten. wir haben das recht, von dieser präsidentschaft etwas anderes zu erwarten. wir unterstützen michel barnier in seiner großartigen arbeit, weil er deutlich macht, dass europa zusammensteht, und weil er deutlich macht, dass europa ein konzept hat, gemeinsame rechte, aber auch gemeinsame pflichten. ich glaube, dass die mehrheit der menschen im vereinigten königreich mittlerweile weiß, dass sie auf einen falschen pfad geführt wurden und dass es ein großer fehler war, diese entscheidung zu treffen, die gemeinschaft zu verlassen. es ist ein großer fehler, den die nächste generation im vereinigten königreich am härtesten zu bezahlen hat, wenn es keine korrekturen gibt. und wenn diese regierung scheitert – und danach sieht es aus – finde ich, dass die briten ein recht darauf haben, ihre meinung direkt dazu zu äußern. das ist die botschaft, die wir in diese verhandlungen zu geben haben. lassen sie uns einen neuen versuch wagen, europäische solidarität zu leben. aber dazu müssen sie auch bereit sein, einen radikalen wandel einzuleiten, einen radikalen wandel in ihrer arbeitsmethode. gehen sie auf die menschen in europa zu, widmen sie sich wirklich den sorgen, die die menschen haben. unsere unterstützung hätten sie dann. aber, it needs change. der status quo kann so nicht weiter verwaltet werden.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, leaving the people to my left and some of the people in my own political group aside, i have not yet met one person in this parliament who doesn’t regret brexit, and i haven’t met one person in this parliament, except me, who is trying to avoid it. as mr bullmann said, mr barnier is indeed very active, but he seems to be very eloquent in describing the economic impact on britain. he never says anything about the economic impact on europe. britain leaving the common market is equivalent to 19 small and medium—sized countries leaving the common market at the same time. to come up with a new trade deal with one country is one thing, but to disentangle the relationships of thousands of companies, which have grown over 40 years, is quite another. mr juncker, had you at the time offered britain a special deal on freedom of movement, brexit would not have happened. (murmurs of disapproval)yes, it is absolutely true and, by the way, for those who moan here, i would like to remind you that mr schröder got a special deal in 2004 when poland joined – against my opposition at that time – with a restriction on freedom of movement of poles coming into germany for seven years which was, by the way, a restriction the british prime minister did not want. in order to end the confusion in london, we must end the ignorance here in brussels. mr juncker, as a german i always felt that it was right that britain won the battle of britain. make sure you are not going to lose the battle for britain. (applause)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i think we are now in a phase of the brexit negotiations where things are getting tighter and tighter and where i have the impression that people are trying to shift the blame for a possible failure as far as possible. i am speaking specifically of the british government. i am certainly not one of those who have entered the brexit process with the idea of punishing the british for their democratic choice or of making a symbolic choice. but what we are seeing is that, against the background of power struggles, of unclear relationships, particularly in the ruling party, this government in britain is not able to put forward even a single clear formulation of the main problems we face. what we get is a lot of talk and no and yes and no, and it is an attempt to stand out from the failure of the negotiations - from the possible failure and increasingly likely failure - and to create a new starting point for ourselves. this leads to extremely embarrassing statements by british ministers which are totally unacceptable. what i would like to draw to your attention - also with regard to the irish question - is that the following must be made very clear to the british government: if it does not want a solution, if it does not want acceptance of the good friday agreement, if it does not want the passage contained in the declaration of last december, the concession it made there, the commitment it accepted there, if it does not want to implement it, then let it say so clearly. then it saves us time, money, manpower, then it saves us from fretting over things that are not supposed to be solved at all. at least we have a clear message. my second point is that we are far from being ready to talk about what should come afterwards, such as free trade agreements. but my message to us, to the council, to parliament and to the commission is also valid: we should not do anything which limits future development possibilities, including democratic decision-making possibilities of other governments in the united kingdom, but also within the european union, from the outset, for example, by deciding to take on stronger social commitments, to develop more democracy in each country. we should not limit this by negotiating a free trade agreement later on. i want to make that very clear again. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. to the council. i must say again very clearly that the council has not yet made any progress under the austrian presidency. i am thinking in particular of the cancellation of the meeting of the social affairs ministers on the grounds that it was not yet ready. i think that in the last few weeks and months there has been no such thing as the fact that, in view of the fact that a social summit was held in gothenburg a year ago, we are not even in a position to call for, to strengthen and to send out social signals. my colleagues have already said a great deal about migration. i support that completely. the question of the dublin reform. but who can expect anything from the austrian presidency when the relevant ministers meet the italian ministers, salvini and others, and already discuss solutions there, that they want to take control or make a decision on asylum at sea. have you ever thought about what that means that in the month of september alone, one in five of the refugees from libya is either dead or missing? can you even begin to imagine what's going on? do you not have a responsibility to take it forward, to find solutions which are humane and which will take us forward as a union and strengthen our common responsibility? so i can only say that unfortunately you have fulfilled all the reservations we have seen since the beginning of the austrian presidency. i ask you to take more active action, human action, democratic action, and not just to support people who ultimately have something else in mind. and i'm asking you to do this. if we are talking about hungary and poland, please look at italy. the law, the decree that was passed or presented last week, to stop migration it should be examined in detail to what extent it violates eu values. i am thinking in particular of the reversal of the presumption of innocence for migrants and asylum seekers.
i have to say, madam president, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the president-in-office of the council for his reply. the next council summit must continue to focus on migration as the number one issue, alongside brexit. i must confess that at the last summit in june i thought we had finally achieved a breakthrough, that we had made some progress on common approaches to migration, that we had agreed on guidelines among the member states. but now, when i look at what was achieved at the informal council in september, i must say that it is very, very disappointing. what happened? what happened? the increase in frontex to 10,000 men: not agreed. landing platforms outside the eu: you have spoken about egypt, but there is too little, too little happening here. anchor centres in the eu: i don't see any development there. long story short, i very much hope that the presidency of the council will continue its efforts at its next summit and not give up, in order to take a substantial step forward also on the issue of migration. the second point i would like to raise is what my group leader, mr weber, has already mentioned, namely relations with the united states. mr president of the commission, you have negotiated with mr trump. i would like to pay you a big compliment again. before the summer break, they managed to put a stop to our relationship. i believe that it is indeed time to re-adjust the transatlantic relationship. i would simply ask, beg, encourage you to make every effort to come to a reasonable relationship with the united states.
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into detail. we are again clinging to the same problems. we are again complaining about the same blockages: on migration, on the question of flight, on brexit or on the question of making the rule of law binding in general within our european union. i do not want to complain about that again, but i want to draw attention to the fact that we are losing sight of other issues too much in the meantime. trade has been discussed. the united states has now concluded a new treaty with canada and mexico. we should not tell ourselves that this will not mean additional pressure on the european union. we are in a situation where we need to come together much more closely if we are to achieve a good result in these negotiations, which mr juncker has started in a wonderful way. i wonder why the council does not take this matter much further and why the council does not ensure that there is at last a mandate on which we can discuss here in the european parliament. and i am surprised that the connectivity strategy, which has been reasonably put forward by the commission and the edf, is not on the agenda. because there too, the future must be shaped! let's not forget what's going on around us because we're doing too much bellybutton.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the council presidency, the vice-president and the honourable members! let me begin by saying that this house and the commission, which is confirmed by this house and whose president has been elected by the directly elected european parliament, are fully and completely democratically legitimized. and we must maintain, more legitimate than the prime minister, who never submitted to a vote in the house, but where it was enough to kiss the queen's ring. i think we should put that on the record. we must remember that mr farage has never been elected to the national parliament in the united kingdom, despite many attempts. we have been waiting for the british proposal for a year and a half. then chequers came along. then mrs may said, "take it or leave it". that means that we wait a year and a half for a proposal to come and then we have to accept it, otherwise it is an insult, as has been said. what we should do now is clear: make the withdrawal agreement quickly. there is only the irish question to be resolved. the commission has already made a number of proposals to deal with this problem. and then we have two years to negotiate a decent free trade agreement and also to negotiate the remaining treaties on internal and external security. let us get away from the rhetoric of this congress, the insults of mr hunt and others - if we did that, the devil would be loose - and finally negotiate this withdrawal agreement to get a good deal of further cooperation out of it. this must be done now and the british must finally get on the agenda. (the speaker agrees to answer two questions under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr brok, are you aware that it was mr barnier who said at the beginning that before you have a solution to the border regime you have to have a trade agreement? that was completely impossible. i don't know of any border regime without knowing what kind of trade agreement you have. a year wasted on that alone.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the constitutional order of the united kingdom is a matter for the united kingdom. but then please don't attack us, we wouldn't be democratically legitimized! that's what i was trying to say. the european union is democratically legitimised by national parliaments and by the direct election of the european parliament, and hence the commission. and that's why you should stop this alibi-making event with democratic legitimacy. and i have to see that 27 democratically elected heads of government have not accepted this proposal from the uk. it's normal for something like this to happen. and for this reason, we have to say ((the president interrupts the speaker.) and we must note that the republic of ireland, as a member of the european union, wants us to take up this matter as well. and we will do so at the request of the republic of ireland. the point mr henkel raised is that this is simply wrong! the fact that the irish question is included in the withdrawal agreement is an agreement at the beginning of the negotiations with the sequences. it's perfectly clear! and there are clear suggestions on how it should be done. and we want a free trade agreement. but that's why we can settle the border issue first, so it goes in a decent way for the irish.
i have to say, madam president, the creation of the european union was a visionary, bold step. something entirely new was born: boundless, peaceful cooperation between different states. what about today? the european council meets as a gathering of national politicians who stare with disgust at national polls. we keep producing new so-called security laws, none of which are fully implemented, but the fundamental rights and privacy protection are under pressure. migration and asylum must be dealt with jointly within and outside europe. what about the internal market? the people of europe need a strong social pillar. i hope that the commission will take this opportunity to make a statement. because the future of our democratic continent, the future of more than 500 million people, is worth every effort. you should start doing that!
i have to say, madam president, i am not going to go into detail. we expect concrete results from the council. this includes protecting our external borders. it is not possible that some people will turn away from solidarity on the grounds that we are not doing enough to protect the external borders and that if we then propose it, they will fall back on the petty idea of sovereign states preferring to solve this problem alone. and we also expect a clear word from you that those people who save others in the mediterranean will no longer be criminalised. in eight months we have the european elections. you have eight months to show that what you have delivered is not enough for you. anyone who thinks that by not acting he can save anything is, in my opinion, on the wrong track. i am not in the mood to listen to the sunday speeches of the heads of government on tuesdays and wednesdays, unless they finally come to work. (the speaker declines to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of mr jurek's rules of procedure.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i also refer to the sanctions mentioned by president tajani. i cannot judge whether there have been any conversations. if that's insured, that's what i'm insured for. but i would like to make one thing clear as the chairman of the s&d group: i know that the members of my group in particular who have been sanctioned for taking the side of interpreters and for advocating or supporting actions which have caused the interpreting services to be suspended for a period of time here have not done so in order to undermine this institution but have done so in order to defend the right to strike, which is a european right. i want to bring that up so the house can appreciate what it was all about.
a writer. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the council! it is quite clear that in international trade we have more and more global value chains. 70% of international trade is related to global value chains. of course, we cannot guarantee fairness in these global value chains by contracting with individual countries. we are increasingly faced with the situation of having to establish in various countries of the world a lack of respect for human rights and workers' rights. so it's all the more important that we look at these global value chains and really make clear the responsibility of companies to these global value chains, whether it's in the smartphone or the t-shirt. we have to get in there. global corporate responsibility must be the goal. by the way, ladies and gentlemen: we have legislation on conflict minerals which imposes a duty of care from the mine to the furnace to the product. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the protection of workers are respected. we therefore welcome the initiative of ecuador and south africa to introduce a binding code of due diligence in this area within the framework of the united nations. and that is why we are concerned when there are voices from the commission and the council that they want to withdraw from this debate. no, the european union needs to proactively influence and drive this discussion so that we eventually take this un approach, which is 40 years old, and enforce a clear duty of care for businesses. of course, there are also some weaknesses in the approaches of ecuador and south africa, such as why only multilateral and multinational companies are considered. you can also make suggestions, so be proactive.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i'm not going to tell you. i looked up who was in favour of the human rights council resolution. these are countries like china, cuba, russia, vietnam. who was against it? the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment. so those who voted for it, they don't have much of a sense of human rights in their own countries, while the countries that voted against it, they have human rights. it is also necessary to look at the practice of crossborder companies. what are they doing? they offer higher wages, they have better working conditions, they have better health care and they have more social benefits than the local businesses. why is that? not because they're nice, the big companies, but because they make money off of the well-being of their workers. because healthy and satisfied workers are more productive than dissatisfied workers. and then you have to see that there are spill-over effects. crossborder companies have exemplary functions in many countries. it is not to be underestimated that they affect others and that others may be affected by them. and if i look at what is happening in the individual countries, if a large company in germany does something that violates human rights - for example, supports child labour - then that company is now often led to the slaughterhouse. that's not what they want in germany! it would be a world service if local businesses were to emulate the practices of crossborder companies. this is the real world! (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i was just talking about the fact that it struck me that those countries that voted for this resolution did not respect human rights in their own countries, and that those that voted against the resolution respected human rights in their own countries. that is the crucial point, not whether the americans do this or that.
the commission has already done so. we have spent a lot of time in this house talking about protecting investors and their profits. today we are finally talking about the obligations that companies have to meet. we can no longer accept business models that ignore human rights and environmental protection. michael frost, the un special rapporteur on the situation of human rights defenders, deplores the continued increase in intimidating violence and killings against people protesting abuses by local companies. i therefore call on the member states, the commission and the high representative to play an active part in the un human rights council negotiations in geneva, to finally conclude the negotiations and make this treaty binding. corporations must be held accountable when they commit human rights violations. we must also not allow any loopholes for subcontractors and suppliers. the chevron/texaco case against ecuador continues to demonstrate that only concrete, transparent and binding rules and contracts can guarantee these sustainable objectives. i would like to ask mr starbatty to ... (the president cut the speaker off.)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us in the past. the security of israel is part of germany's national interest, said angela merkel. and mr. trump has not only recognized jerusalem as the capital, he has now cut off unrwa's funding. well played, mr. president! for comparison: unhcr has 9,300 staff worldwide who are responsible for all refugees except palestinians. the unrwa has 30,000 staff to take care of them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the rest of them inherited their status. this is a 200-page report by un watch, which is over 200 pages of documentation of anti-semitism and glorification of jewish murderers by unrwa staff. but unrwa also advocates a right of return for these so-called refugees. eight million kashmiris became refugees when india was founded, 12 million germans were expelled after 1945, millions of poles. now imagine if we had for decades given all these refugees and their descendants a right of return. fortunately, we did not, because otherwise we would not have solved the problem, but we would have perpetuated it. that's what unrwa does. it is a shame that the german government, of all countries, has agreed to take over a substantial part of the american share in unrwa. we should join the united states in doing the same.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. president trump's decision to suspend american payments to unrwa joins a long list of such unilateral decisions, with large sections of the international community standing by, shaking their heads or stunned. we already know that this us administration is not an honest broker between israelis and palestinians. but i do not think that this decision is in israel's interest either. or does anyone think that it would be to israel's advantage if young palestinians were taught in hamas schools instead of un schools? the only consolation i can see at the moment is that apparently the international community, the other donors, have come together on the sidelines of the un general assembly last thursday to close the funding gap. the current deficit has reportedly been reduced from 446 million to 64 million. of course, we must look in detail at the tasks that unrwa has to perform. of course, such an organization can also be made more effective. but to withdraw substantial financial support from now on is not helping anyone. and that is why i hope that in the debates with the united states we can perhaps reach a different decision-making position with the next administration at the latest.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. it is important that we continue to support unrwa because the aid on the ground - many have already explained it in detail - is also vital for life and survival. but it is also important for ourselves and for the fellow citizens we represent that we clearly show that we stand by our word, we stand by our commitment and by our values, even if others suddenly see it differently. if we are not successful in our efforts to find a negotiated solution in the middle east, then at least we should not and will not be outdone in the field of humanitarian aid. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should ask our partners in the united states to reconsider their decision. because international cooperation or cooperation in international bodies does not only work if one of them is in charge and the others then do what the big american brother wants. no, it just happens that other majorities form in such international organizations. and you have to put up with it, everybody has to put up with it. secondly, the more money germany - because i am from germany - or the commission has to put in, the longer it will take to reach this 2% target, because of the peace (the president interrupts the speaker).
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. thank you, colleague. it's always nice to be able to push trump because he's pushing the envelope. why did we not act when a palestinian refugee camp in syria was so run down that hundreds of children were starving? we were on a mandatory mission and had to provide the un with resources. i think we always have to compare the same with the same. how would you possibly... (the president cut the speaker off)
for the following spontaneous exchange procedure, i have twice as many exchanges as we have time for. i shall therefore be allowing one colleague from each group to speak, taking into account who has already spoken in the spontaneous vote procedure. spontaneous speech
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i very much welcome the commission's proposal to provide an additional 40 million euro in eu aid to unrwa. in particular, support for the education of palestinian refugee children and young people is important to ensure normality, stability and peace in the region. this was also the position of the israeli military. in february i negotiated a european parliament resolution which unanimously opposed the us cuts to unrwa and called for increased eu financial support for the un refugee agency. humanitarian aid must not be misused for political demands. i continue to call on the eu to continue to work with other member states to reach out to other nations of the world to close this financial gap. germany has already committed to increasing its contribution this year from 81 to 100 million euros. i welcome the fact that germany is clearly behind unrwa politically and financially.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this has been a very fruitful exchange and i would like to thank honourable members for their interventions. from this debate i conclude that we all share a common interest in using the eu’s diplomatic power and eu instruments to their full potential in support of ensuring the sustainability of the united nations relief and works agency (unrwa) core services to vulnerable palestinian refugees. we will continue to look at how best to use all the instruments available to us in humanitarian relief, stabilisation and development assistance, and political dialogue but please allow me to make some clarifications due to one or other comments or statements by honourable members. first, unrwa is not something which founded itself, nor is it an ngo. it was founded based on a un general assembly decision from 8 december 1949 as a reaction to the palestinian refugee disaster in the late 1940s. its mandate is renewed every three years. so the whole construction is based on a un general assembly decision, meaning a multilateral agreement. there is, by the way, a clear mandate, a clear task and in that respect unrwa is different from the tasks of unhcr. unrwa deals with providing necessary support, in particular of education and health treatment, and other things but in particular these two areas, for refugees, definitely in a medium-and long-term perspective as this has been continuing now for many decades, whereas unhcr is dedicated to supporting, to helping the short-term challenge of certain refugee situations all around the world. this was, by the way, clearly presented by the current un secretary-general, mr guterres, last week in new york, at this event i already mentioned in my introduction, and mr guterres is very well placed to speak about this because before he became secretary general of the un, he was for 10 years high commissioner for refugees and chairing unhcr. having said all this, i think we should say what is happening. the us is breaching international agreements – international agreements – and, by the way, bilateral contracts between unrwa and the us about the funding of unrwa. only in december last year, the administration signed a contract with unrwa about further financing and only a few weeks later they decided to cut or to stop immediately payments to unrwa. this is a decision which again does not respect multilateral agreements and contracts. finally, as was also said by some colleagues, some members of this parliament, on the textbook issue, here once again a clarification. our support to unrwa is the payment of salaries and pensions for teachers in the west bank. we are already working to tackle the deficiencies in the palestinian authority (pa) education system with an eu-pa dialogue linked to eu financial cooperation. the eu insists that palestinian textbooks meet unesco standards for peace and tolerance in school education. this was in the eu-unrwa strategic dialogue. the eu consistently requests clarification on unrwa handling of non-neutrality buyers and non-violence issues in textbooks. in the recent review of support to the two-state solution, i proposed linking disbursement of funding to the implementation of agreed reforms, which could also be extended to curricula. may i close by signalling once again my appreciation of parliament’s role in keeping this important file on the international agenda.
i thank you very much, commissioner hahn. i am not going to go into detail. the debate is closed. it is perhaps not appropriate, but i would like to say this now: it is very gratifying that the commissioner has responded to certain statements. but i think it is absolutely inappropriate - and this may be the case in individual cases - that of the 30 speakers who were registered for the debate, at the end, when the commissioner answers, there are less than ten left. less than ten! all the political groups are affected. there are no nobles and no less nobles. as i said, there are isolated cases. but it's a disrespect to those who are out there listening to the webstream. it is a disrespect to those who sit in the gallery for the sake of it, and it is a disrespect to the commissioner who is answering. mr hahn, if you will take this with you, i personally, as a member of parliament, would have no problem at all if in future commissioners who take the trouble to discuss the debate said at the end: i will deal with individual questions, but i will not deal with colleagues a, b, c, d, e, who have put a question to me but who are no longer here. i think we should really try to get a little culture in there. because certain things are not just about respect and respect, but simply and poignantly about childhood. the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in yemen (2018/2853 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. in april this year, un secretary-general antónio guterres described the situation in yemen as follows: yemen is the world's worst humanitarian crisis. more than 22 million people, three quarters of the population, are in need of humanitarian assistance and protection. in fact, the panel of experts appointed by the un human rights council has found that international humanitarian law is being violated in yemen by all sides. as the previous speakers have said, i share their view: in this conflict, which over the years has increasingly become a proxy war between regional powers, there can be no winners. what's next? i think there are three brief remarks. firstly, it is regrettable that the houthi delegation did not appear in geneva when the peace talks were resumed. the efforts of the special representative, martin griffith, to bring the parties to the conflict together for talks in october should also be supported here. this conflict, as i said, can only be resolved politically. secondly, the first objective in the path to peace in the country should be confidence-building measures between the parties to the conflict. the european union is also committed to the development of the region, and the european union is committed to the development of the region. and thirdly, independent investigations into human rights violations are necessary, and they are also in the national interest. the most serious violations of human dignity, which unfortunately occur daily in yemen, must not go unpunished.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. human rights watch has accused the saudi-led military alliance in yemen of committing another war crime by bombing a school bus and killing 38 children, and publicly accused the alliance of continuing its cruel series of killing civilians at weddings, civilians at funerals, civilians in hospitals and civilians in schools. perverts are hard to come by. one of the greatest humanitarian disasters is currently taking place in yemen. we all know who the perpetrators are, we all know who supplies the weapons and, ladies and gentlemen, we do nothing. the european union is also calling for the immediate release of all political prisoners and for the immediate release of all political prisoners. this war is about the annihilation of the houthi ethnic group. this genocide must be stopped! the us and the belligerent eu members - for example, britain, france, germany - must stop arms deliveries and the troops fighting there must stop supporting the atrocities and genocide. foreign troops out of yemen! then there will be peace there too.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not let me make one thing clear right at the beginning: the question today is not yes or no on climate change. all the proposals we will be voting on tomorrow will help us achieve our climate goals. the question is, what happens if we try to miss the target again? in other words, what do the exaggerated demands of some colleagues mean for consumers, the economy and jobs? the answer is clear: they would be devastating. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the community's energy policy. the penalties for zero- and low-emission vehicles alone will cost us dearly. the commission has calculated what the environment committee's proposal would mean. the economy would lose €1 450 on the sale of a car, each consumer would have to pay €1 000 more and 60 000 people would lose their jobs. it is often said that new jobs will be created and that people can be re-trained. i have met with trade union and industrial representatives and they have made it quite clear that thousands of jobs will be lost. we have to stop that. it is only in the european parliament that this message has not yet been received. i am firmly convinced that we can set ambitious targets, protect the climate and at the same time strengthen the competitiveness of our industry and thus safeguard jobs in europe. we need no ideology, no quotas and no bans, but openness, innovation and technological neutrality. it would be good for the climate, it would be good for the consumer, and it would be good for the workers. the epp group made major concessions during the negotiations. let's vote tomorrow for the 35% target and reject the penalty system for e-car quotas.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not commissioner caňete, you have said that the european commission is working seriously and ambitiously to implement the paris agreement. i have to tell you, i can't see it. you just said last week that you're not going to align the european union's overall climate target with the paris agreement as intended - so three years after paris. the eu commission has failed to adapt its own climate targets and is heading to katowice without an adapted target. so it is not at all surprising that you are not ambitious in this important area of legislation we are discussing today. their own experts have told them that a co2 reduction target for the automotive industry must be at least 60% by 2030. they have proposed 30% by 2030. so far, the recommendations of science and the proposals of the commission have never diverged in the time that i have been here advising on climate policy. i should also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs dalli, who has really achieved something good with the compromise we have found in the committee on the environment. but this compromise must at least be defended now, so that we can be seen if we want to represent something good in the international debate from this house. the auto industry, along with some governments, is on the brakes. this is not surprising, it has a system, we have seen it many times. but the trade unions, mr gieseke, are discussing something else. we have heard from the unions that they know very well that our industry will be dependent on international markets unless we are ambitious and committed to innovation, climate protection and environmentally friendly cars. the workplace argument has been very important all along. and i want to tell you: i have rarely seen such a manipulative use of numbers in a debate as this one, as in the last few weeks. it is unconscionable to operate on figures of job losses that occur when we are discussing reduction targets such as 80% by 2030. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. the job losses that will affect industry in the european union in the foreseeable future will be generated by digitisation and productivity gains, as always. and there is no interference from you at all, mr gieseke. panic over climate change, that's what you're doing, and that's what's going to end up taking over the european markets by chinese manufacturers. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. mr president, i would like to thank mrs harms for her report. you have criticised the commissioner for not having proposed to raise the 40% target. i was at the climate conference in bonn last year, and i systematically asked all the partners we talked to, is there any debate in the other countries -- the united states, let's leave it out -- but in japan, russia, south america, brazil? there is no debate anywhere. and do you not think that, before we criticise the commissioner, who has already outlined a way forward, we should do more to involve other countries in this debate?
the answer is the 'blue card' procedure. it was also eu commissioner cañete who hailed the paris agreement as a great success. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and then, when we talk about the automotive industry, we talk about climate technologies that are available. this is where we have the technology, where we also have to advocate innovation and not systematically inhibit innovation.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it's about driving, and i'm all for giving it a go. give it a go on innovation and give it a go on climate change. i am against the idea that we are over-promoting this debate. because if we look at where we're coming from, we're gonna have to take a little bit of gas off. we had extreme positions at the table. mrs harms, you said that 80% was never mentioned, but your group has already contributed 75%. that's not that far off from 80%, so not really. we have had the proposals of miriam dalli: 50%. we have the committee's proposal of 45%. and then the independent analysis of the european commission, which i very much appreciate, says: we will then have job losses in europe and losses for the economy. it is therefore good that we are now moving towards a new level of cooperation and that many groups are no longer supporting the 45%. i would also like to ask that we look again at the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment on malus. the commission's analysis shows that this again represents a burden of some 5% more. i would therefore be grateful if the committee's proposal does not pass the 40% benchmark. this is an additional tightening, and it's not technology neutral. so it would be good if we corrected that tomorrow as well. the commission has calculated that this is the contribution of the car industry if we accept the commission's proposal to reach our 40% target. we can discuss other figures, and we are prepared to go higher as the epp. but i would like to say again - and mrs harms did not answer that - that the debate on doing more than what was decided in paris is not being held in any other part of the world. and that is why we should not criticise our commissioner, but he is travelling around the world and is initiating this debate in other countries for the first time. for that, we should support miguel arias cañete and not criticize him. thank you, miguel, for doing this. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
question no 3 by mr pimenta subject: the amendments tabled by your group are designed to weaken the already very weak reduction target for conventional engines for 2030 by means of bonus and fee systems and credit systems, so that in our estimation conventional engines could be worse and more harmful to the climate in 2030 than they are today in 2018, on the basis of your proposals. they call that giving gas in climate protection?
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. so first of all, we have raised the target to 35%. that's something to consider. and we do not want to water down the proposal, but we want to support innovation - just as i said. the malus is not included in the commission proposal. that is why we do not want to see him in the final text. it's not technology neutral. the other proposals are also aimed at promoting the transitional plug-in hybrid technology. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe. that's the point.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow we should vote for a 45 percent reduction in co2 emissions from cars by 2030 and for a mandatory electricity quota with penalties. it is about stopping the ongoing warming of the climate that threatens the existence of all mankind. if we do nothing about global warming, it will soon cost millions of lives. i say to the german epp members: do not follow the car-driving chancellor merkel any longer and do not believe the lies of the car industry! the german government has blocked stricter co2 rules for long enough, and quite specifically in the interests of the german automobile industry. have you learned nothing from the diesel affair and the lip service of chancellor merkel? many citizens are rightly outraged that this house too often acts in the interests of the corporations. and then you wonder why people out there are talking about a bought-up brussels socialite? it is time for the eu to take a serious stance on climate action and stop being a mere tool of industry.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the transport sector must become climate neutral by mid-century to meet the paris agreement targets. there is no doubt that there is a global competition for the cars of the future between asia, america and europe. and whoever offers the best technologies, whoever offers the best cars, they have the world markets, they have the markets of the future. i want us to continue to produce cars in europe for years and decades to come, and i do not want us to have to import these cars from overseas. i believe that with this legislation we are shaping the future of transport in europe. it will have different types of propulsion, it will be much more environmentally and climate friendly, and it will also provide new technologies and new jobs. because we're always talking about electric cars, i'm sure that as an intermediate step, we'll also take hybrid and plug-in cars, and maybe in a shorter period of time, we'll also use car gas and natural gas, which can reduce greenhouse gas emissions. we social democrats are of course concerned about climate protection, but also about jobs. we have highly skilled jobs in europe. it is also necessary to develop it further into new productions. and we also think about the companies that may need to make a radical change. that is why we have proposed a just transition fund, so that we can help cities and regions, but also certain companies. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am here in the house of the chairman of the chinese delegation. i have been watching for years what this great country is doing, which has really introduced quotas year by year and which wants to serve the world markets. it has already been mentioned here that south korea and japan have been offering hybrid cars for a long time, whereas the europeans have still stuck to diesel. the legislation we are making here, mr president, applies to all cars entering our market, all cars produced here, and of course also to imports. there is no preference for imports over cars made in europe.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the paris climate targets have been signed by all countries, and now all countries have to implement them in principle. we know that co2 emissions from transport have been rising steadily, even though we have had reduction targets. now, you can see this in the debate, the countries that produce cars are doing more than the countries that don't produce cars. i am not sure that the council will be able to do so. it's about jobs. that's right, i did. the fact is that many say that diesel needs more jobs than e-mobility. of course, that's what the competition with china is all about. we don't want to lose jobs because the cars are now made in china. we have an alternative energy infrastructure under construction. way too slow from my point of view. if we could do this faster, we would have the kind of technology neutrality we want, much stronger and much more likely to be on the streets. i'm against the painting system, i don't think it's a good thing. basically, it should be said that since we have realized that even the targets we have are useless, if more and more cars are coming, it would be best to have a strict emissions trading for the whole sector. unfortunately, that's not up for debate, but it might help us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. more stringent and binding co2 targets are needed. the commission proposal, at 30%, sets the course for greater environmental protection. but we should leave the church in the village, that is, keep the car industry in europe. two points: firstly, 45 or even 50% by 2030 is utopian. this will destroy tens of thousands of jobs throughout europe. and a narrow vote by the european parliament with these unrealistic targets and no impact assessment weakens us vis-à-vis the council. a european parliament which goes into negotiations in this way without having used its own means of impact assessment will not be taken seriously in the trilogue. we have seen this repeatedly. i wonder why the reds, the greens and the greens in this parliament are not taking up the offer of parliament's impact assessment. secondly, the introduction of an electricity quota through the back door is a dangerous self-limitation. instead of letting the market act, left-wing politics wants to set a technical direction, and again without an impact assessment. the commission shall assess the compatibility of the aid with the internal market by examining whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. disposal of waste question mark rare earths question mark obviously, these are words that are foreign to many in alde, the s&d and the greens, following the motto: why the market economy, if it can go through the wall with its head? responsible environmental policy means thinking from the end, analysing the consequences of legislation carefully. ideology cannot be the compass of politics. so let us work together again on a compromise.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i am very much in favour of setting realistic targets and setting what emissions are achievable for cars and small commercial vehicles. we have 250 million registered and running cars in the european union. if we think about it, if they're going 40,000 kilometers, they're emitting 100 grams of co2 per kilometer, and if we do the math, we're going to get to a billion tons of co2. we want to reduce 300 or 350 million tonnes of co2 over a period of 12 years. it's only for new cars for now. but the fleet will have to renew itself within those 12 years. that means we need new combustion engines that use three and a half or four liters of fossil fuels. we really need new dimensions in electric mobility too. we must achieve that. i don't want to stand at the end and say, "yes, unfortunately, this was all too ambitious and it didn't work out". then we will... (the president cut the speaker off)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the change in the vat rates. there are seven proposals in total from mr szanyi. we have achieved a good result with 44 votes in favour and four against. it is a council directive, so we can only wish for amendments. we have done so, and some colleagues have pointed out that since the 1990s this provisional vat system has led to an ever-increasing fraud. in 2016, the court of auditors found that eur 147 billion was generated by fraud or non-payment of vat. this is a huge sum and reform is urgently needed. the proposals on vat rates give member states more leeway. we have supported a medium rate of 12%, a maximum rate of 25% and a minimum rate of 15%, and exemptions which individual member states may use and which other member states may also apply in order to avoid distortions of competition. the most important point, however, is that we have not agreed on a system to replace the transitional regime. the only system which would be seen to prevent vat fraud from becoming permanent would be the reverse charge system. this is an extremely effective and efficient measure. the commission has so far been opposed to this and i can only ask the commissioner to drop his previous reservations. germany, austria and the czech republic have applied for this. it is clear that all the measures taken are not working because unanimity in the council is still a prerequisite for meaningful harmonization. that is why i ask that we adopt this report together.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not going to tell you. i am not going to go into detail. the commission's proposals for the adjustment of the vat system are generally welcome. but why is it important that we finally reform this vat? the current vat system is out of date. it is now more than difficult for businesses and tax administrations to navigate the jungle of tax rates, rules and jurisprudence. but fraudsters know exactly how to exploit the system. in 2016 alone, the eu budget lost €50 billion through vat fraud, €100 billion was lost through insolvencies, miscalculations, etc. 150 billion in total this is the eu budget for the whole of 2018. this money is missing from every corner, from schools, streets, pension funds. the need for action is therefore more than clear. it is clear that the new rules must be as simple as possible for all concerned. i come from a border region and bureaucracy must not in any way hinder cross-border trade. as a tax auditor, i know from personal experience how important clear and concrete laws and implementing provisions are, because only then can we effectively combat vat fraud and tax evasion worth billions. i therefore appeal to the member states to agree quickly on a system which also meets the requirements i have just described.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am not going to go into detail. in germany alone, 169 people have been killed by right-wing and neo-fascist violence since 1990. the reason for this is right-wing slogans. we must not minimize the use of derogatory language, as is already the case today. first the language changes, and then the inhibition thresholds fall. we must not continue to relativize or even ignore neo-fascism, because that is insulting to the victims and survivors of this abhorrent violence. we have also had arsonists in this house who are responsible for burning down asylum seekers' homes and killing people. and behind the numbers are people and personal destinies. we must not forget that. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. fascism is not an opinion, it's a crime. only yesterday a group of alleged right-wing terrorists was apprehended in germany. last week, we learned from research by reputable media that at least 169 people have been murdered by neo-nazis in germany since 1990. about a month ago, a demonstration of neo-nazis together with afd politicians took place in chemnitz, which led to attacks on migrants and journalists. just a reminder: the leader of this party is also in this parliament. we on the left will not leave europe to the right and its murderous ideology. we are part of a strong movement of solidarity, democracy and anti-racism. in germany hundreds of thousands demonstrated in many cities for basic human rights. in berlin, we expect hundreds of thousands of people to take part in the 'indivisible' demonstration on 13 october, which will oppose right-wing propaganda under the slogan 'for a free and open society, solidarity instead of exclusion'. i'm not going to do it.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the house should be very grateful to the committee on petitions for allowing us to discuss this matter. but it's not the best time to be on the air or in the office. perhaps we should take this into account in future, because the subject is far too serious in itself to be treated as a last item on the agenda. it seems obvious enough. citizenship and the rights attaching to it are regulated by the member states. the right to vote is one of them and is the responsibility of the member states. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the right to vote is respected. the truth is, however, partly different, or to put it politically: member states in the european union decide very differently when and how to exercise their right to vote for citizens who no longer reside in their territory. we cannot accept that the right to vote in the european union is de facto dependent on the place of birth. my predecessor has already said: the situation was particularly spectacular with brexit, if you will: british citizens who worked in brussels on behalf of their country were not even allowed to vote on brexit. that in itself is a rather grotesque situation. i therefore urge the council - we know the legal situation in the committee on petitions - to discuss the right to vote, to harmonize it and to find a better solution. the right to vote is a fundamental right and should not be taken away from the citizens of the european union, and above all should not be made dependent on the place of birth.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, romania has a very long and proud tradition of fighting for freedom and civil liberties; overthrowing a dictatorship after 42 years. the efforts to move towards democracy and civil liberties cannot be overestimated. it’s harsh but romania did it. democratic institutions have been developed and romania has joined the european union. it is therefore even more worrying, prime minister, to see that there is a real backlash. with the reforms of the romanian criminal code, your government is making it legal for officials to abuse their power. your government will allow convicted criminals to get away with their stolen money and not have it confiscated. you are de facto legalising corruption with that reform. corruption makes people lose trust in the state and in democracy. money is being diverted from the benefit of the many to the pockets of the few. romanian citizens now lose five times more money to corruption than the state spends on hospitals and healthcare. romanians do care. they took to the streets to ask for democracy, for good governance from you, prime minister, as is their right, as is the right of any european citizen. but, instead of listening to them, you actually sent the police in to attack them, tear-gassing an entire public square. even further, your government is now planning to reduce the freedom of assembly, making it obligatory to have an authorisation. romania would be the first european union member state to require an authorisation. do you really want to go that low? colleagues, commissioner, romanian citizens are asking for freedom, nothing else. freedom from corruption, freedom of assembly, freedom from discrimination. europe is built on that freedom. as someone who grew up in the eastern bloc, i can testify to how important that freedom is. that freedom, democracy and civil liberties are being called into question in more and more member states. as european institutions, as european deputies, we have to defend the rights of romanian citizens as well as the rights of every european citizen, be it in hungary, be it in poland, be it in austria, be it anywhere. there is no second—class citizenship. let’s not wait until it’s too late. let’s not wait until we have to start yet another article 7 procedure. now is the time to change. now is the time to act. (applause)
i would like to thank mr boştinaru. i don't need you to tell me what to do. i pay close attention to what is called out. interim calls are possible and allowed in parliamentary business, as long as they are reasonable in form and content. i'll decide what to do. i don't need you to call me from the sidelines. so that's clear once and for all.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. this is not gonna work. i wasn't so strict at first. but you failed to formulate a question the second time around. that's why we don't need an answer.
i'm getting some blue cards now. it seems to have been said that we have a lot of catch-the-eye messages. i can't allow this to be circumvented. i would also like to point out that the general line i am taking here is that i do not want to give a further speaking time by means of a blue card to someone whose speaking time i have withdrawn because he has exceeded his speaking time.
- i'm not going to. thank you for that perspective. chairmanship is not a punishment, at least not for those who speak. i'm trying to put some order in here. it is clear that blue cards cannot deal with the undeniably large number of spontaneous requests for information. i understand very well that many romanian colleagues would like to have a say in this debate. but the time for speaking in plenary is not for conveying only one view of things and not only the view of one country. i've received well over 30 requests for spontaneous word messages. i shall allow only a little more than five and i have made sure that not only romanian colleagues from each group will be allowed to speak.
i am not going to go into that. i would like to ask a question of mr bütikofer.
i am not going to go into that. first, you speak while standing. secondly, i'm the one who decides. you have it in your hand to say you won't allow questions. i take it from your answer that that's a no. that is why i am now going to speak to mr agnew.
mr popa, please! i have already mentioned that it is part of a lively debate - at least in the democracies of the world - that interventions are also allowed. as long as they are within the bounds of form and content, i have no intention of untying this. i would like to ask you to take the floor for calling a colleague in this chamber a disgrace to parliament.
- i'm not going to. i would advise you to find out which group i belong to first. secondly, as i said earlier, i will not allow the use of blue cards to circumvent the catch-the-eye message. and i have just told mrs nicolai that the decision whether or not to allow an interim question is a matter for two people: the chairman and the person to be asked. her answer was "no". my answer would have been "yes" in that case. i will also tell you why i was inclined to allow the interim question. because the green group has not said a word about the 'catch-the-eye' issue. that's why i thought i'd let you do it. the rules of procedure do not provide for a rule on whether blue cards are possible in the 'catch-the-eye' procedure.
i am not sure that this is the case. you're welcome to submit something in writing. i said three things. first, that if i cut someone off because they've been talking too long, i'm not going to let them get a bad rap. that's one of the reasons you volunteered. and secondly, i pointed out that some of my colleagues are now trying to use the blue cards to try to get their report across in a catch-the-eye manner. i won't let that happen. i have never said at any stage that i would accept blue cards in the 'catch-the-eye' procedure.
thank you for the flowers, mr. jurek.
thank you very much, mr paşcu. i'll take the blame for the misunderstanding. i said paşcu, but i also said marinescu when i thanked mr mureşan for his contribution. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
prime minister of romania. mr president, thank you all for your position. i've seen things that i've taken into account, things that are constructive. i wanted a constructive dialogue, but i realized that there is a lot of misinformation and i don't blame those who said these things, but those who are behind this misinformation. mr. pons - yes, we have to protect the citizens. this is what i ask too, and i will not ignore the voice of the people, and the witness is the broad popular support we have in romania. i listen to everyone in good faith and i want a constructive dialogue, but a dialogue that is fair for romania and for the european union. mrs. macovei, i know about your misinformation. this government that you criticize so often has brought about 7% economic growth, has raised the living standards of romanians and that's why romanians love it. it is not your honor to bring the internal political struggle to the european parliament, it is a lack of respect for the romanian people. i won't be able to answer all of them, it would be a lot of time, but i want to give some more answers. yes, romania is divided, and i want romania to be united, but we have to take care of one thing - and a pro-european country tells you: do we also want a divided europe? yes, we have dialogue, but let's not try, regardless of political group, to antagonize each other. together we must design, we must shape the future of the european union, starting next year. let's look at the things that unite us and let's put aside the things that divide us. what we have to fix, we will fix, we will have dialogue, i am open to dialogue. mr. corrao, the reform in terms of justice, the justice laws is being initiated in parliament. parliament is the democratically elected one, it is the expression of the will of the people. you see that there is misinformation here, too? because they pointed the finger at the government. - not in parliament were these laws initiated. mr rebega, do not bring the political fight into the european parliament. it's not fair to romanians, maybe you should think that you ran on the lists of the social democratic party, but i don't judge you, because i don't have the right, you will be judged by those who supported you and whom you have now disappointed. madam, in't veld, thank you very much for the suggestions, i'll take your suggestions into account. the european parliament is not my enemy, i have been a member of the european parliament for nine years and i will never deviate from european values. maybe not everything is right, maybe not everything is as it should be, but i believe that a constructive dialogue and the fact that you can listen to all sides and we will take less account of those who do not want to be understanding and dialogue in the european parliament, those who come with misinformation, those who have always misinformed, not only now - i believe that things can be corrected. mr timmermans, we will certainly take account of the recommendations of the venice commission. today, the minister of justice, who is standing next to me, will go to the venice commission. romania is a pro-european country and it will certainly not deviate from the pro-european path - and a former colleague of yours tells you that. please have faith in romania and have faith in the european path and in the rule of law in my country. thank you!
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, in the course of my professional and political life over the past 30 years i have been a very close witness to everything that has happened in romania and i remember vividly that 30 years ago, working on the issue, i saw that the romanian people had inherited a thoroughly, thoroughly corrupt system. it was not just corrupt because of the corruption, it was morally corrupt. the nation had been under the direction of a morally deeply corrupt dictator and his system. if you take that, 30 years ago, into account and then see where romania is today, huge progress has clearly been made, apart from the party-political composition of the government. over those decades, huge progress was made. so why am i so worried today? because, in the final stretch of this long and painful marathon, we now risk not reaching the finishing line to ensure that the fight against corruption cannot be reversed and that the rule of law is irreversible. to go in the other direction would be to undo some of the most important achievements by the romanian people in ridding themselves of this horrible past. someone who comes from a country like mine cannot even begin to imagine how difficult this must have been for the romanian people. so, if we now speak out and speak up, it is because we are doing it for the romanian people, who want to fulfil their european destiny by being sure that the system they live in – the country they live in – is a democracy based on the rule of law, with full respect for human rights, and where corruption is combated effectively and rooted out of society. i want to remind the members of this house who have not made reference to the cooperation and verification mechanism (cvm) report that, yes indeed, the recommendations of the venice commission are important and we will work on them, but please also look at the recommendations made in the commission’s cvm report of last year and the recommendations we will be making in the cvm report next month. i think they constitute a good road map for ensuring that reform is irreversible. i will continue the dialogue with the romanian government. because of time, i could not be precise on every question and critique we have on the proposed and already promulgated laws, but i will be very meticulous and precise in putting my questions to the romanian government, and in inviting them to answer those questions and to continue the dialogue so that we can resolve these issues. let me be very clear: what is at stake is of huge importance for the future of our european union, but what is at stake is of even greater importance for the future of the romanian people. so, if the commission needs to be brutal in our assessment we will be brutal. if we need to use other instruments at our disposal, we will use them. this is not a threat. this is just the commission setting out what our role is and pointing out that we are the guardian of the treaty and we need to take this role very seriously indeed. if i may make a political remark: sometimes i have the impression – to put it in the words of the immortal yogi berra – that it’s ‘déjà vu all over again’. in response to criticism, two things always emerge: firstly the cry of ‘double standards’, which is a sort of knee jerk reaction; and secondly the assertion that ‘it’s not an attack on the government, it’s an attack on the nation (or on the people).’ i hope i have made clear today that we have made a clinical assessment of the situation: that we have analysed precisely the proposed changes in the legislation, that we are doing this on behalf of the romanian people, not against the romanian people, and that we look at each and every member state in exactly the same way. (applause) we look at the facts, while also recognising that every situation is different. we are not putting member states all in one batch, we are looking at every member state on the basis of the specific issues in that member state, and i really want us to be successful here. i urge the romanian government, once again: keep the dialogue open and listen to our recommendations – they have been put down on paper in a spirit of cooperation, and of keeping romania on the right european track. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the emotionality of this discussion clearly shows how important this issue is. i also want to thank commissioner timmermans. the first vice—president made the situation and the necessity for a dialogue very clear. let me assure you once again that the austrian presidency and the council as a whole attaches great importance to upholding the rule of law and fundamental values within the european union. i speak as presidency of the council and therefore in the name of all of its member states. the council will continue to follow this issue closely and the presidency will pay particular attention to the views which were expressed during the dialogue and during this debate.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the november partsession. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
in writing. while we strongly criticise hungary and poland for their lack of rule of law, the romanian government is working almost unnoticed on a radical weakening of the judiciary. the changes in the criminal law and criminal procedure and the dismissal of the chief prosecutor of the anti-corruption authority raise many questions. we now need a comprehensive analysis by the european commission of the impact of the amended laws on the judiciary and law enforcement. and then we have to draw conclusions from the results. the rule of law must not be restricted, corruption must not be legalized. we must send a message to the citizens of romania and support them in their fight against corruption.
prime minister of estonia. – mr president, vice-president of the commission, distinguished leaders of the political groups and members of the european parliament, europe is a thought that needs to become a feeling. i am honoured to be back in this great house. i would like to thank president tajani for organising the debates on the future of europe and for giving me the opportunity to participate. today, we can all together congratulate our german friends, and all europeans on the occasion of german unity day. for my generation, this day symbolises not only the end of the division of germany, but it also heralded the liberation of eastern europe and the start of the eastward enlargement of the european union. it made possible the starting of accession talks 20 years ago. it has been an amazing journey for our country, for estonia. the role of the european parliament in it has been remarkable. i would like to thank you, honourable members of the european parliament, for your support. this year, estonia celebrates the hundredth anniversary of our statehood. like germans in the east of the country, we had to wait and dream for 50 years about freedom, rule of law and justice. i very clearly remember watching finnish tv, as this was our only connection to the free world. this is why i, from the bottom of my heart, dislike borders in europe: those still existing for member states who have fulfilled all criteria to join schengen; those that have been partly reintroduced following the migration crisis – although i understand the concerns back then – and those that still may be erected, should we collectively fail in brexit negotiations, which i refuse to accept. against this background, it is not hard to understand why estonians have such a special emotional connection to europe. i can only agree with the irish singer bono that europe is not only an idea, but also a feeling and a destiny, because, and i quote, our ‘values and aspirations make europe so much more than just a geography. they go to the core of who we are as human beings, and who we want to be’. compared to its share of territory and population in the world, europe is small and diverse. but by sharing our sovereignty and pooling our strength, by having common policies, we have been able to make a difference in the world. i believe that we all have shared interests in rules-based and effective multilateral order, built on liberal values and democratic principles. we also have common interests in open, free and fair global markets. it is what the world expects from us and it is what our citizens want. it is europe that protects our values and freedoms from the turbulence of today’s world. europe’s geographical ties and our global interdependence as the world’s largest trader dictate that it is vital to have a world that functions. we europeans are all stronger together, and i hope that we will spare no effort in securing our collective interests and the values in the world. europe’s core strength is its diversity. being european adds a rich layer to one’s identity. nothing represents this better than the fate of small nations in the european family. i would like to paraphrase former estonian president lennart meri, who once said that small nations in europe are the glue, the oil and the cement in the european construction. therefore, allow me to express here modest enthusiasm when it comes to grand institutional designs in europe, which could lead to a lesser role for smaller nations in our common institutions. less diversity will also result in less europe. today, in this limited timeframe, please allow me to focus on only some of the areas essential for europe according to estonia. firstly, preserving unity within the eu. the key for our common future is our ability to keep the eu united and move forward with the eu’s positive agenda. there is a saying that the best way to predict the future is to create it. future is not something abstract or another treaty-change. we are building our future every day. we are doing this by providing answers to the concrete concerns of our citizens, and, where possible, building connections that bring europeans closer together – human, physical and professional connections. europeans also expect us to tackle transformational challenges that are too big for a single member state, such as european defence, climate change and digital transformation. we will also have to find answers to global population growth and migration, triggered by these changes. i therefore hope for an ambitious multiannual financial framework that reflects these challenges. a new multiannual financial framework is actually the best indicator of how we will see our common future. i agree with president macron that the european union depends on the feeling of unity. but as we know, unity does not have to mean uniformity. sometimes we should simply recognise our different views, without compromising on the same values. i find different levels of direct taxes in member states to be perfectly normal. i also feel that, with a european budget of the size of only 1% of gni, fundamental decisions of a redistributive nature can be made at national or even local level through social dialogue. at the same time, we must have a credible framework that is vital for our common future, like the spending of 2% of our gdp to keep europe safe or aiming at an expenditure level of 3% of gdp on research and innovation. also, we expect europe to be big in big things, but at the same time it has to be excellent in details. without standards and fine details, the single market or capital markets union would simply not function. we are now trying to find consensus when deciding on the core elements on how to manage migration. it is difficult, but we all realise that short-term measures will only bring short-term solutions. all of us need to show solidarity in the way that suits best our common purpose and each member state’s particularities. the key in decreasing irregular migration is to work with third countries. we must use all the instruments that our trade, visa and development policies offer. the new africa-eu alliance proposed by president juncker to support jobs, skills and private investments in africa definitely serves long-term effects. estonia pulls its weight here. last november i signed an e-government cooperation agreement between estonia and the african union. estonia is geographically distant from africa, but the digital world does not recognise distance. secondly, it is important to maintain and strengthen the eu’s influence in the global economy. i cannot imagine a better example than the single market to prove that we are bigger and stronger together. but it still remains unfinished. take, for example, the field of services: while the sector continues to grow unlike anything else, especially in the digital domain, we are far from using its full cross-border potential. for example, public services remain essentially national. my good colleague, mark rutte, called the services market the ‘elephant in the room’ when standing in front of you here in june. i understand him well, and i always worry: when did talking about the completion of the single market, our economic engine, become a taboo? it is high time that we set ourselves new goals in building the single market. ‘success in creating effective artificial intelligence could be the biggest event in the history of our civilisation. or the worst. we just don’t know’ – a famous quote by stephen hawking. in the field of artificial intelligence, the race is definitely on. everybody is keen on exploring and developing strategies and reaping the benefits while we are still struggling to make it work. as it moves from the age of invention into the age of implementation of ai, europe has to reinforce our values and lead technological change in the public and private sectors. we need progress in the areas of the free movement of data, the data economy and artificial intelligence. in the world of hybrid warfare, cybercrime and fake news, security in cyberspace should come by design and go hand in hand with emerging technologies. we need to build data integrity into systems, to be able to guarantee that the sensors, inputs and computing of the robotic systems are not compromised. we need to develop strong digital identities, in order to be able to distinguish real persons from fake unfriendly bots. we need to establish practice with a strong professional spirit on keeping ai open and transparent. i am very pleased with the commission proposals resulting from the tallinn digital summit last year, especially our commitment to invest in technological and social readiness throughout the new budget. it is time to adopt proposals to complete the digital single market and enable digital transformation. the world will not wait. thirdly, it is important to maintain and enhance internal and external security. all eurobarometer surveys have shown that our people are most concerned about security. our long-term focus should be on prevention of crime and illegal activities at our borders. a high level of border and customs surveillance ensures security throughout europe. common standards and investments into both technical and operational features in border surveillance are required. only then can we realistically assess what to expect from the 10 000 european border guards that president juncker has proposed. also, effective control of people and goods at our external borders demands reliable databases that can communicate with each other. we do not need to collect the same data in different information systems, we just have to make them able to share the information. interoperability of eu-wide databases by 2020 is the only way forward. we must also explore how to develop better synergies between the internal security, border control and customs information systems. similarly, romania and bulgaria would also benefit from membership in the schengen area. the call for european nations to show that they take their security seriously has been around for a long time, and clearly it will not go away. this is not merely a question about maintaining or increasing our military capabilities. this is ultimately a question about how serious europe is about its role in its immediate neighbourhood and in the world in general. how serious are we about our transatlantic partnership with the united states? a europe that protects has to maintain a strong relationship with our global partners. in addition to the european defence cooperation, it is vital that we preserve transatlantic unity. europe cannot deal with global security risks alone. for the european union, this means going beyond its current role as a regulatory superpower and starting to support the development and deployment of more traditional instruments of foreign and security policy. therefore, increased defence cooperation among the eu member states is very welcome. this will lead to increased defence spending and to a larger number of commonly usable capabilities. at the same time, nato will remain the bedrock of collective defence in europe. our aim should be a mutually reinforcing relationship between the eu and nato. the final point i would like to make is that we need to strengthen the european feeling and fight populism. we are working hard in the eu to make our citizens feel well. however, in a recent youth forum in estonia, students said that even their teachers were not able to explain the european union. upcoming european parliament elections give us politicians a perfect opportunity to explain our decisions. the european union has brought so many opportunities that people nowadays seem to take for granted. we have to speak about the benefits of the single market and single currency to our businesses, of free movement to our people, and of erasmus to our students. i very much appreciate the structured dialogues on the future of europe, initiated by the french president, emmanuel macron; the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker; and the president of this great house, antonio tajani. working for a better europe that benefits citizens is daily work. this also includes taking responsibility for the decisions and compromises made in the eu, and showing very clearly that we own these decisions. the action taken after the bratislava and rome summits already seems to have had positive results and to enjoy the support of the people. more than two—thirds of eu citizens feel that eu membership has been beneficial to their country – the best results since 1983. to summarise, external pressure and crises have always pushed the eu forward and motivated member states and institutions to cooperate. our common response to the russian aggression against ukraine, to the bataclan terrorist attack, or, if we will, to the eurozone crisis, is an example of solidarity and an example of common values. the european union as a community of values – and, of course, shared interests – has to have the means to stand up for the respect of individual freedoms and fundamental rights, for a multilateral and rules-based order and to tackle the challenges to our security, peace and wellbeing. i believe that our citizens understand this, as we engage in the negotiations over the next multiannual financial framework. the fundamentals of the european union are constantly being disputed by the people, by the member states, and by third states. our union is therefore politically fragile. this means that we need a self-confident, reassuring union that protects its citizens and its members. we also need citizens and member states that are passionate about the union and everything it stands for as a family of peoples and states. there must be more of us. i really hope that 10 years from now, i can listen to a colleague from any of the current candidate countries in the same capacity as i am standing here today. i would now like to conclude in my mother tongue, estonian. kallid parlamendiliikmed! ma tahan teid tänada selle eest, et euroopa olevik ja euroopa tulevik ei jäta teid kedagi ükskõikseks. alles täna siin, seistes teie ees, mõistan ma täielikult, milline privileeg ning vastutus oli eestil ja minul eelmisel aastal, kui meil oli au ja võimalus juhtida euroopa liidu nõukogu tööd. eesti kirjanik anton hansen tammsaare on öelnud, et tööd tehes kasvab armastus. nii see on. euroopa oli, euroopa on ja euroopa jääb minu südamesse.
vice-president of the european commission mr president, mr antonio tajani, mr prime minister jüri ratas, members of the european parliament, and our distinguished guests, ladies and gentlemen. i speak today on behalf of the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker. i hope you understand that if i were not speaking for president juncker, i would be much more moderate in my praise of estonia. but i speak for president jean-claude juncker. mr president, speaking on behalf of president juncker, let us start by thanking the prime minister for taking part in this debate and for his vision on the future of our union. as you know, this is a special year for estonia. in february, we marked 100 years since independence. today, estonia is a modern country, flourishing at the heart of europe. it may be one of the smaller member states, but it is an example for others to follow. estonia always fights to take its rightful place at the heart of our european union, whether schengen, the euro or on defence. it always seeks compromise and works for a unity. we saw this repeatedly during the first ever estonian eu presidency last year. all of this shows that estonia will continue to be a leader in the european union in the future. nowhere is this more important than when it comes to making our people safe. defence and security are not abstract terms for estonians. they are daily and visible preoccupations. this is why we have invested so much in the eu's partnership with nato, which remains the cornerstone of our defence. estonia knows firsthand the true value of this partnership. as i speak, estonian troops are in afghanistan, mali, kosovo, lebanon and other countries, while the presence of nato forces in estonia continues to give us peace of my mind. estonia is also leading the way through its participation in permanent structured cooperation. its planned project with finland, latvia and others to develop unmanned land systems is a perfect example of how we can achieve more by working together and how we can bring digital solutions to the battlefield to save lives. we need to back this up with the resources to match. as part of our proposals for a new long-term european budget, we have designated eur 13 billion for the european defence fund. i know we can rely on estonia's full support for these proposals. all of our proposals for the multiannual financial framework focus on areas where we can achieve more together to build a stronger europe. we have seen the potential of targeted investments. rail baltica is a good example. this project connects europeans and creates new opportunities for people and businesses from helsinki to tallinn, through riga and vilnius, and eventually to warsaw. this is the largest infrastructure project in the baltics eur 5 billion invested in the region. these projects cannot happen overnight or within one financial period. in that spirit, we have proposed to increase the funding for the connecting europe facility by 24%, to focus on transport, digital and energy infrastructure. this will allow major projects to become a reality, such as the synchronisation of the baltic countries' electricity systems and the baltic connector gas pipeline between finland and estonia. the same applies to digital, which is in the dna of estonia. it now needs to become part of europes too, in digital infrastructure, e-government and digital skills. this is what the eu leaders endorsed at the tallinn digital summit. this is why we are fully focused on building a true digital single market. i rely on the support of this house, as well as the council, to agree on the remaining proposals as quickly as possible. we need them urgently to build europe's digital future. the european commission has proposed a new digital europe programme worth eur 9 billion to support europe's digital transformation. this will be especially important when it comes to implementing the tallinn declaration on egovernment. all of this shows the importance of agreeing on the new long-term budget as quickly as possible. as president juncker said in this very room only a few weeks ago, there would be no better message, no greater symbol to show europeans that their union will invest in the future and take its destiny into its own hands. honourable members, prime minister, only a strong and united europe can protect our citizens, make the most of the new digital world and create new opportunities for its people and businesses alike. but to do so, we will have to work together and work for a compromise. we will probably have to do less, be more focussed on the things that matter, and do things more efficiently. as ever, estonia is showing the way. the motto for its presidency unity through balance shows us the way forward for our european union. it is time to take it. (applause) thank you very much.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to welcome prime minister ratas to the debate on the future of europe in this house. prime minister, it is good to have you here because we can be inspired by the history of estonia and by the strength of its people. in the ppe group, we are lucky to have one of your compatriots within our family. he is only one but he counts for ten. i want to thank our friend tunne kelam, who is with us. he fought the soviet occupation at first hand and was not afraid to stand up against injustice despite the great risks. together, he and all the people of estonia achieved a lot: a europe that fights back for what is right, a europe that is strongly together against all the odds and a europe that sticks to its values. europe can learn a lot from the estonians’ spirit. estonia is a small, innovative and courageous country. if there is no europe which cares about the small member states, there is no europe at all. you said it, prime minister: diversity is what europe is all about. estonia was reborn from the ashes. it was one of several victims of nationalism and brutalism. the hitler—stalin pact meant oppression for more than 50 years. for estonia, a united europe means, first of all, freedom and security. today, with vladimir putin on one side, estonia needs a strong europe; and with donald trump on the other side, estonia also needs a self-confident europe, which cares about security. in the same way that europe is sticking to nato, we also have to strengthen our defence union. you mentioned this in your speech, prime minister. in the future it could probably be a fascinating idea to guarantee the future security of the baltic states with european troops present there. sadly, estonia was also one of the first countries to know a brand new type of warfare. back in 2007 it withstood one of the first cyberattacks. today estonia is a leading nation in cybersecurity at european level and also globally. its experience could also be a starting point from which to create in the future a cyber-rearguard, defending the whole european union in response to these modern challenges. today i want to focus on the question of the digital revolution. the new technologies are improving dramatically and we can all see this. estonia has done a great job: 99% of all public services are already e—services; and, when you bear in mind that it is a country with six times more start-ups per citizen than the eu average, we can only congratulate estonia on what it has done in this regard. (applause) estonia’s ambitions are a role model for europe. innovation is key and it is part of the european dna. we now need to give a proper answer as to what our share is in this digitalisation, because it’s obvious that the usa is more of a frontrunner than we are, as europeans, in the digital revolution. that is why we need to consider and discuss how we can now organise and use the opportunity of the next wave in the digital transformation which is ahead of us. let me underline one important point for us. we don’t think that creating legislation on copyright or data protection means creating a burden for the innovative sector. for us it’s clear that this is about creating a level playing field for a modern innovation policy. a second important point is that we have to take people’s concerns people seriously. when a waiter feels that an ipad is taking over his job or a truck driver fears the self-driving vehicles which will be on our streets in the future, then we have to give an answer in terms of a digital social market economy. how we organise this is one of the big challenges ahead of us. the third thing i want to underline is the gap between advanced regions and those which are still catching up. improving the digital infrastructure in the european union is a key issue for keeping europe together. that’s why i think we must invest a lot in the next eu multiannual financial framework and especially in the idea of broadband for everyone. because technology does not shape the people – it is the people who shape technology – our european way of life has all the ingredients for us to succeed: firm values, a fair social market economy, creative capacities, lively regions and stable democracies. that is why we need to start now to build up this digital revolution with the european spirit. the future of europe will not be written only through interinstitutional reforms. investing in innovation and digital infrastructure to ultimately improve european citizens’ quality of life is what matters most. the ppe group is ready to stand with all those who want to go into the future. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, it is a pleasure to welcome the prime minister on behalf of the social democrats here in the house, together with my good friend ivari padar in the first row here. let me say, prime minister, that it was a pleasure to listen to you. you gave us the impression that estonia seems to be a great place to live. we can also congratulate you on the presidency and the great results which you delivered for europe. together with your coalition partners, especially with our sister party, the social democrats, you achieved a lot in your country. you have already made estonia a fairer society and a better place for its citizens, and we would like to congratulate you on that. we share the same idea that europe and our countries have to be locations for the best of the many and not only for the few. we are dreaming and we are working for a europe that is sustainable: sustainable in its economy, in its environment and its social structures, where everybody – every woman and every man – regardless of their income can count on the support of their public institutions and where everybody can breathe fresh and clean air. you showed in a small country what can be done for instance in public transport. public transport is free everywhere there, and i am dreaming of that in my home country and everywhere in the european union. let us build on your experience and let us try to make that the common experience. you invested in children, you invested in teachers; this is the leading issue for what we have to follow in the european union, and if you look at how much you spent on the well—being of families, many other countries could copy that. lassen sie mich heute, an dem tag, an dem wir in deutschland den tag der deutschen einheit begehen, etwas nachdenkliches sagen. wir in deutschland feiern den fall der mauer, wir in europa feiern den fall des eisernen vorhangs. wir haben im kopf und im herzen, mit wieviel freude die menschen diese ereignisse begleitet haben und welche hoffnung auf freiheit und auf demokratie damit verbunden waren. wir müssen uns heute aber sorgen machen. wir müssen uns sorgen machen über neue mauern, über neue grenzzäune in der realität, im herzen und im kopf. grenzen zwischen denen, die denken, dass sie alles erreichen können, und denen, die sich vergessen fühlen und glauben, dass sie nicht mitgenommen werden, die keine chance haben; grenzen zwischen denen, die sich wirklich anständig jeden tag mühe geben, zum gemeinwohl beizutragen, und denen, die das schamlos ausnutzen; grenzen zwischen denen, die völkisch hetzen und nationalistisch intrigieren, und denen, die als flüchtlinge von krieg und als flüchtlinge von gewalt davon opfer werden. lassen sie mich an einen großen franzosen erinnern, an françois mitterrand, der 1995 in diesem parlament gesagt hat, nationalismus wird zu krieg, wenn wir dem nicht entgegensteuern. das ist die botschaft für europa, der wir folgen müssen. und das ist der auftrag auch für unsere heutige diskussion. ich habe hoffnung. das ist ihre erfahrung, das ist das, was sie mitbringen, wenn sie aus dem herzen ihres volkes sprechen. ich habe die hoffnung, dass sie uns helfen werden, ein europa ohne mauern zu verteidigen, ein europa ohne neue grenzzäune, ein europa des sozialen zusammenhalts. nur wenn unsere gesellschaften sozial zusammenhalten, wird es die freiheiten geben, die wir uns wünschen, und ein europa, das rechtsradikalismus, das faschismus, das neue grenzen zurückweist und die demokratie schützt, auch in ihren nächsten wahlen, auch in der nächsten europawahl. ich wünsche ihnen glück und erfolg, und ich hoffe, dass dieses land so blühen kann wie es angefangen hat zu blühen.
mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister for the remarks he made with regard to our foreign and security policy. i was very happy to hear what i considered an extremely realistic approach. i have two questions on the basis of what you said, prime minister. number one: when you emphasise the necessity for europeans to take a shared initiative, to carry a bigger part of the burden of making sure that we can contribute to our own security, then we should also look to the fact that we’re not spending too little at the moment, but we are spending in a very ineffective way. we’re duplicating, triplicating and quadruplicating all our defence expenditure. the focus should be on making effective measures our number one priority and not just raising expenditure, without being more effective. the second question i have for you, prime minister, is very simple: are you in favour of abandoning the unanimity rule on foreign policy?
mr president, mr prime minister, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i'm a visegrád german, i'm from the east. today is a special day, because today is the day of german reunification. estonia has helped us to live in this free europe and to shape europe now through the singing revolution. estonia is at the forefront of the digital revolution, in managing the situation that we can take care of citizens in a completely different way with e-government, but also with internet security. i would like to know how you feel about the european defence fund. do you see it similar to what was discussed many times, including in estonia at a discussion at the munich security conference, that we should use the fund for more digital security, that we should build a european network and there, so to speak, strengthen the security infrastructure towards digital, and not to conventional weapons?
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. ladies and gentlemen, the debate we are having here is another example of how the commission and the council are misleading the citizens with their concepts. because we're suddenly talking about a minimum income here. but that is wrong, ladies and gentlemen. mrs bresso has just pointed this out. we're not talking about an income, we're talking about a minimum social support. an income is something that is associated with gainful employment. an income is something that is associated with effort and also with fulfillment because you can work and because you are allowed to work. the commission's representative, the council's representative and the representatives of certain political parties have all been misleading the public by suggesting that a problem is being solved, which is in fact being perpetuated by paying a minimum social assistance and trying to keep people unemployed. or at least they risk remaining unemployed because they receive this kind of support. it is a matter of course that we provide a minimum level of social support for those who are unemployed. of course, no one would argue with that. i think it's ridiculous that we have to talk about this again today. the real problem is how do we get people who are on welfare because they have no jobs into work? we have to talk about what incentives we give people to go back to work when they get social assistance. there is, for example, this idea of an unconditional basic income, which is quite an interesting idea, but of course it always has to answer the question of how big the temptations are to rest on this basic income and then somehow not to switch into employment, and it also has to answer the question of who should actually finance it and when the tax liability starts. those who talk only about social support and do not talk about the incentives for employment are misleading the citizens because they are not asking the right questions.
i have to say, madam president, no matter what we call the subject of this debate, whether we call it basic income or unconditional basic income or minimum income, we always talk about redistribution, and redistribution doesn't regularly make the poor people richer, it makes the rich people poorer. that is to say, it is the completely wrong way to achieve anything sensible, sustainable here. because with an unconditional basic income, you will always have to answer the question of how much to pay. is it really intended for everyone, even a millionaire? or do i have to introduce red tape? all these are unanswered questions, but they must be answered first. but the crucial point is that this question should not be answered in the european parliament, because it is a question which the eu member states must define for themselves in a sovereign decision. and in doing so, they have to decide what social benefits they can afford and what they want. that is a matter for each country to decide. but we must not ignore the fact that the eurozone countries in particular have very specific obligations in this respect. participation in a common currency also requires adherence to common rules, such as debt limits. if we take italy for example, because the reasoning for this request comes from a representative of italy, we have a debt ratio of 134 per cent of gross domestic product. so if italy can afford something like that, then it's wonderful. but the question must be asked in italy: can you afford it? i therefore believe that we cannot adopt such measures at european level which would end up damaging solidarity by introducing transfers which are in no way justified.
i have to say, madam president, i hear only normative sentences about the basic income, the minimum wage. you can say that as often as you like, but the world is not changing. minimum incomes depend on the productivity of the national economy. the key is whether jobs are provided. and then i would like to look at mrs thyssen's figures. these are the numbers i always have. would you please tell your staff to present the correct figures? if you take the nordic countries out of the unemployment rate for europe, you will see how dramatic the situation is still. and look at where the jobs have been created. we have discussed this in this house. these are precarious jobs. we have more work for less money. if you look at this, you will see that there is a rift in europe, that the north is doing well because it has an undervalued euro, and we are dealing with an overvalued euro. until you eliminate this basic phenomenon, we will keep saying what we need and will not change anything.
i have to say, madam president, work is a meaningful element in life. the change of the name of unemployment benefit or social assistance to basic insurance makes little sense. equal pay must be the goal of european policy. wage policy is a key element in the process of convergence of living standards in europe. wages are negotiated by employers and trade unions. where there are no strong trade unions and employers' associations, the state must ensure a fair minimum wage and protect collective agreements and freedom of contract. the high wage differentials in europe are a divisive factor for society. we need a european minimum wage, which is based on the living standards and average incomes of the european regions. germany is not a model here either. with the german minimum wage of eur 8.84, the worker receives only about 47% of the average income. in a european comparison, the german minimum wage is ranked 14th in terms of average income. the poverty line for the minimum wage is 60% of the average income. low minimum wages contribute to old age poverty and child poverty. we in germany must continue to fight for a minimum wage of at least 12 euros. we want all people in europe to be able to live well from their work.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. - i'm not sure. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the council presidency is very pleased to welcome you to the european council. since eurojust was established on 6 march 2002, we have been supporting eurojust and the member states in their respective judicial coordination with their national authorities. the objective is clear: to combat terrorism and serious organised crime more effectively within the european union. the first half of 2018 alone again underlined the positive impact of eurojust. in april, a ring of human smugglers was exposed by arrests in austria and romania, in may, cooperation between belgium, spain and germany led to arrests in cases of organised systematic vat fraud, and finally in june, a german-danish group was also arrested for selling residence permits to migrants in the context of sham marriages. however, due to this new threat situation, but also to technical progress and institutional changes since 2002, the rules laid down in the founding act were no longer adequate and should and had to be renewed. the commission therefore published a draft regulation in july 2013. we in the european parliament have of course put this draft into the ordinary legislative procedure, but we have only been able to assess it in its entirety. and that was a bit lengthy because, of course, we had to wait for the council to debate the draft report on the european public prosecutor's office, so we were actually able to present the draft to parliament only in 2017 and then in october we also received the mandate from parliament to enter into the trilogue negotiations. i would like to express my appreciation for the cooperation with the estonian and bulgarian presidencies, but also with the commission and the shadow rapporteurs. all the parties involved were very committed, very professional, and that is why the trilogue was successfully concluded on 19 june this year - with a result that i would say was satisfactory to all parties. we have therefore also created an executive board to relieve the college of governors of administrative tasks. then the college should focus on the purely operational business. we have defined clear responsibilities and procedures, and the commission is also involved in the work of this agency through a representative in the college and the executive board, as well as the parliament when it consults the president of eurojust and the national parliaments in interparliamentary meetings. the tasks and competences of eurojust are clearly defined in relation to the european public prosecutor's office (eppo) and the eppo, thus avoiding any gaps or overlaps. the principle of proportionality and the principle of subsidiarity are also taken into account. it also ensures that prosecution must continue at national level. a major problem was the creation of data protection policies. we have now incorporated the so-called operational data into the founding act of eurojust, while all the other data protection issues have been included in regulation 45 (ec) no 2001 by mrs ernst. this also gives member states the assurance that their data will not be transferred to eurojust without their consent.
member of the commission. – madam president, eurojust makes an essential contribution to judicial cooperation in the european union. it helps member states to combat serious cross-border crime and to protect our citizens. in recent years, eurojust has further increased its role in the fight against cybercrime, terrorism and trafficking in human beings. last year alone, eurojust supported member states in more than 2 500 criminal cases and organised 200 joint investigative teams. eurojust also supports the execution of european arrest warrants as well as judicial cooperation with third countries. given this changing and ever more challenging operational environment, the reform of eurojust was necessary. we had to make sure eurojust stays fit for purpose in the future. the revision you are about to adopt will, among other things, ensure that the national members of eurojust can focus more on operational work. it will also allow the european parliament and national parliaments to be more involved in assessing eurojust activities. we also needed to clarify eurojust’s future relationship with the european public prosecutor’s office, the so-called eppo. the eppo will be a specialised body with investigatory powers dedicated to the fight against crimes against the eu’s financial interests. it will need to cooperate closely with eurojust. moreover, eurojust will continue to be responsible for judicial cooperation in relation to crimes against eu financial interests in respect of those member states that do not yet participate in the eppo. the eppo will be operational by the end of 2020 and i am pleased that it will have a stronger eurojust as its partner. in this context, let me also highlight the importance of sufficient resources for eurojust to do its important work in the forthcoming financial period. in the meantime, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent cooperation on this proposal. i would like to highlight three points on which parliament’s support was decisive in the negotiations. first, parliament obtained agreement that the regulation on access to documents should be applicable to all eurojust documents, including those related to operational matters. this will ensure more transparency for citizens. secondly, parliament ensured that the harmonised data protection laws for eu institutions and bodies would also apply to eurojust. thirdly, parliament allowed the commission to have a representative on the management board of eurojust. i am convinced that, with this revision, eurojust will be even more efficient in making the eu a safer place. the commission regrets, however, that on several points the co-legislators have decided to deviate from the approach agreed in the joint statement on decentralised agencies. a written statement on this issue has been provided for inclusion in the record of this session. honourable members, thank you once again for your work. i look forward to the vote tomorrow. commission statement(in writing) "the commission regrets that on several points, the co-legislators have decided to deviate from the approach agreed in the joint statement of the european parliament, the council of the eu and the european commission on decentralised agencies of 19 july 2012, without providing the necessary justification. this relates in particular to the number of commission representatives in the college/management board and the procedure for appointing and dismissing the administrative director of eurojust. the commission will assess the impact of those deviations on the functioning of the agency at the appropriate opportunity. they should not be considered as a precedent for other agencies."
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted the opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on the work he has done. it's important that we get a result at all. but on the other hand, the current regulation of course opens up the beauty contest at the level of 'who does what' between olaf, the eppo and eurojust. that is why i very much regret some of the results. for example, it is completely incomprehensible to me why the eppo's access to the eurojust case management system has been deleted in article 23 and only indirect access is provided instead. the automatic cross-checking mechanism has also been removed. i think we're gonna regret this in the house. i would also like to take a negative view of the criticism of olaf in article 51 (2). we shall see how this provision works in practice. we are pleased that the discharge for eurojust is also included in the final text. and i would like to tell you that we will of course be following eurojust's work and the question of efficiency and we will certainly be happy to come back to some of these. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. crossborder crime cannot be tackled at national level alone. no, we must respond to it by means of crossborder cooperation between the member states and their judicial authorities. since we do not have a truly european criminal law, we need a bridge between the authorities of the member states to bring offenders successfully to justice. this bridge is eurojust. the agency started its work in 2002 and the increasing number of cases in which national authorities refer to eurojust is a testament to the need and importance of the european agency for judicial cooperation. the range of cases eurojust supports is diverse, from detecting fraud against bank customers with fake emails in romania and italy, to detecting attacks on freight transport in france and poland, to detecting drug trafficking between the netherlands and finland, to name just a few examples from recent months. one thing all these cases have in common: crossborder crime has been tackled through crossborder cooperation. in order to ensure that eurojust can carry out its tasks even more efficiently in the future, it is good that we launch the new eurojust regulation in accordance with the lisbon treaty by voting tomorrow. what innovations are the main ones? first, the structure of eurojust is being modernised, and this will now allow eurojust's national members to focus more on operational tasks. an executive committee will be in charge of the administrative work. secondly, as we know, from 2020 the european public prosecutor's office will be able to investigate and prosecute crimes against the eu budget. it was important to avoid any form of skills gap or duplication of work. in order to ensure that the prosecution service can cooperate efficiently with eurojust, the guidelines for the division of competences are clearly defined. thirdly, there is of course still a lot to be done to improve judicial cooperation between member states. to support this process, eurojust will be able to issue written opinions to alert the authorities of a member state to problems. fourthly, we will strengthen transparency and accountability. parliamentary scrutiny of eurojust is strengthened by the cooperation of the relevant committees of the european parliament and also of the national parliaments. and fifthly, the rapporteur has pointed out that data protection is being adapted to the new rules at european level, and this is hugely important in the case of sensitive data in the context of law enforcement. all in all, this reform will make eurojust more capable of acting and will enable it to work more efficiently in the future. i thank everyone, especially mr voss, for their cooperation.
i have to say, madam president, cross-border networking of law enforcement agencies within the european union is important. eurojust builds mutual trust where there are traditionally differences and builds bridges between the legal systems of the european union. the creation of the european public prosecutor's office has made it necessary to draw a clear and distinct line. it is a pity that not all member states have been able to agree on a common approach, because that does not make it easier for us to tackle crime in a consistent way within the eu. the reform will focus eurojust on its core tasks of promoting cooperation between national judicial authorities in the fight against crossborder crime. the clear separation of operational and administrative tasks is quite useful in this context. i think it is important that eurojust continues to support and coordinate those member states that do not want to participate in the european public prosecutor's office.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you very much for your valuable contributions in this debate. i would like to respond on several of the comments made. it is true that criminals have no borders. also, criminal creativity has no limits, and criminals are using and abusing several new factors. firstly, they abuse the loopholes which we leave in the system. they are abusing new technological tools and possibilities because – while a number of speakers mentioned the schengen area, which enables free movement – the digital sphere, in fact, has no borders, and we have the statistics from the national police and prosecutors’ offices which show that criminality is shifting to the digital sphere and cybercrime is on the rise. sadly, another aspect widely abused by international organised criminal networks is the fact that national police and prosecutors have limited powers in relation to cases with cross-border scope. these are the cases which we need to address. we need to reorganise powers and redistribute tasks and competences among the institutions which the eu has established, in order to prosecute these big cross-border cases. in relation to europol, and now the reform of eurojust and the new eppo, of course i have to mention olaf, which also needs reconstruction – and all these institutions will need to work without overlap. there must be very strong synergies and it is our duty to fine-tune the tasks and competences of these institutions to work as one in a well-orchestrated way, because if we fail to do that the criminals will be celebrating.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not prepared to accept this. - i'm not sure. first of all, let me give you a detailed account of the individual contributions, particularly the contributions which i have just heard from this side. i have the feeling that the system and the eurojust platform were not understood at all. the united kingdom has not been left behind because it has been involved in the work since 2002 and will continue to do so. it is the individual member states that are supposed to want to cooperate. it's not like you just randomly access it. it would be very difficult to see the reality of the situation. i thank you for the contributions in general, and i believe we are now bringing the whole system here up to the current challenges of global crime control. the fight against organised crime and support for the member states is one of the main things we have here, even if mrs inge grässle now very much regrets that we may have missed one or two opportunities. as negative as she is, i wouldn't see it that way. we have established very explicit cooperation here in articles 3, 13 and 50, and with olaf in article 75. we have done the same thing there in terms of data exchange. we are also subject to certain data protection regulations, which we have now discussed in general. in addition, both olaf and the eppo can conclude internal agreements with eurojust to make their work more effective. that's why i don't see it as a negative thing. maybe we could have dealt with it directly, yes. but i think that the whole thing will come into play, because once everyone has started their work accordingly and can work together within this framework and on this basis.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i'm not going to tell you. i am not going to go into detail. first of all, i am very pleased that my colleague, anna corazza bildt, has succeeded in making this important proposal for the digital single market a majority in parliament with great speed and in concluding the necessary trilogue negotiations with the council as well. and for that, i want to thank you and all the shadow reporters. because it's true - and vice president ansip pointed out - that we still have the same problem in the european union, that data localisation rules make it difficult for digital providers to really harness the full power of the single market. with this proposal we are succeeding in taking a big step forward in the digital single market. we have adopted a whole series of other directives in the past weeks and months. i think that what we are making clear with this proposal is that the digital single market offers an opportunity for all well-meaning, all serious providers to work even more efficiently. the basic data protection regulation, the basic principles of data protection, are not weakened by this directive, but strengthened. they'll remain untouched. but at the same time we are promoting the free flow of data in europe in a way that allows member states to decide for themselves which transnational, crossborder services they want to use. but the principle is that the market is basically europe-wide. and that's very, very good news. secondly, i think it is important that we supplement these proposals. of course, european citizens are increasingly concerned that much of the data they enter into public registers cannot be used everywhere as desired. this is why it is important that we also finalise the proposal for platform regulation in the coming months, so that the overall picture is understandable to the citizens of europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already done so. the scale of money laundering in the financial sector is a security risk. it is also a threat to fair competition in the european union and it is damaging to the reputation of our common currency. so it's high time we showed a different kind of toughness here. i thank you for your proposals on the european banking authority. i also thank you for the concrete measures you have now ordered against malta, as reported in the financial times. it makes sense, it's right. we need swift action by the co-legislators to implement your decisions. i would therefore like to know from the council how it intends to ensure that this decision is actually taken by the institution in a hurry, which is appropriate to the case. and conversely, we have a responsibility to reach a decision in a rapid procedure. we also know that apart from malta we have serious deficits in at least latvia, estonia and cyprus. i wonder, commissioner, when will you be bringing infringement proceedings? the information on this can be found almost daily in the financial press. and, of course, money laundering is not limited to the financial sector. we know that in the real estate market, for example, black money is systematically driving up prices to a large extent. the reports of suspicion made by obliged parties such as real estate agents or lawyers, notaries and so on are completely within the legal provisions. that is why i ask you, commissioner: when will you ensure that european law is also enforced in the real estate sector in relation to black money? it's clear you can't do all this at once with so few people. mr juncker had promised us that he would increase the number of staff. when will you significantly increase the staff in your own agency? i am not talking about one or two jobs, but about creating a real working unit! the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. would you please explain to my ukip colleague that the european investment bank is the largest state-owned investment bank in the united kingdom because they do not have their own national investment bank? the united kingdom uses the eib as its national investment bank. this will be a big problem for you after brexit, because you will lose this funding instrument for your public investments. and that is why i would simply suggest that the honourable member give you a seminar on how you can improve your basic knowledge of europe.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. dear othmar, dear colleague of kara's! you know how much i appreciate your commitment here in the european parliament. i would therefore like to know whether you are aware that your home country has a double taxation agreement with cyprus, which leads to double non-taxation and literally invites russian money from cyprus to eventually not be taxed twice in austria. and are you aware that austria is refusing to give liechtenstein the information on tax data that is otherwise exchanged between tax administrations all over the world? and i ask you, dear colleague karas, will you make a commitment to change this?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the recent money laundering scandals show how lax european legislation is still in this area. according to the financial times, up to €200 billion of ill-gotten gains has been laundered through the estonian branch of danske bank since 2007. it is still far too easy for criminals to funnel their dirty money into the european financial system. the economic damage caused is enormous, especially in a union that is only slowly recovering from its economic crisis, whose devastating social consequences are still being felt across europe. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union. this is not achieving the objective of full transparency for trusts and foundations, nor in the real estate sector, one of the hotspots for money laundering. the commission has also been unable to agree on stricter penalties for infringements of the directive. the commissioner has already said that the directive is not a good idea, but that it is a good idea. all of this shows that the fight against dirty money is far from over.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my fellow citizens! how long do you need to experience to know that the current immigration policy is not working? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not disrupted. in severe weather conditions, they also endanger the people who come to rescue. we know from years of experience that the majority here do not want to be integrated at all. and we're doing integration measures again now through 2027. the world is turning upside down. let's take the example of australia, let's take the united states. in australia, it's the rule that anyone who arrives unannounced is sent back. there are no traffickers, no one can make money. we do not need integration measures, we need the return of those who are with us. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens.
in writing. the situation in the mediterranean is intolerable. private maritime rescue organisations fighting against the humanitarian disaster are not supported, but criminalized. among others, sea-watch and mission lifeline are no longer allowed to save lives, although they are ready at any time. a reconnaissance plane and a rescue ship are being illegally detained by the maltese authorities, and a captain is being prosecuted. at the same time, people are drowning in the mediterranean. the s&d group has therefore proposed the maritime rescue organisations for the sakharov prize as a symbolic sign of support. europe must finally turn around. civilian rescue at sea must be supported rather than hindered. we must not continue to make unfair migration deals, to send refugees back to unsafe countries and to set up camps inside and outside europe. instead, the dublin regulation must finally be adopted by the council in accordance with the european parliament's decision. legal and safe routes of escape and entry into europe must be created and the fundamental right to asylum strengthened. the latter must not be continually eroded. and we must immediately set up a civilian sea rescue programme under the leadership of the eu. we cannot continue to deny our humanitarian responsibility. it is time for europe to stand up for a human rights-based and sustainable refugee policy. it is the only way to show that european values are more than just a sunday speech and that they also apply to people outside the eu.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam minister for the presidencies of the council! i am grateful that parliament is putting this issue on the agenda tonight and is thus supporting the work of the commission and of olaf and other commission services. we take the fight against fraud seriously, we take the protection of the european budget seriously. that is true on the expenditure side, but it is equally true on the revenue side. on both sides, we have much to defend, lose and protect. it is settled case-law that member states must compensate for the financial losses incurred by them if they make mistakes in the collection of own resources. this also applies to interest on late payment, if any. and we are obliged to take legal action against member states if they do not comply with their obligations. olaf has repeatedly addressed, warned and cautioned the united kingdom in recent years because, until october last year, no really effective measures were taken to stop customs fraud involving the importation of undervalued textiles and shoes from the people's republic of china, which were not adequately reflected in their material value. the failure has resulted in a loss of equity of approximately eur 2,7 billion. under current budgetary law, 20% of this would go to the united kingdom for administrative expenditure and surveys, but 80% would go to the european budget. after our talks and admonitions initially failed to produce any change, we initiated infringement proceedings against the united kingdom in march 2018. to put it bluntly, this has nothing to do with brexit. it is our duty to do so, and we do so with other member states. we must ensure that member states set the correct value for imports and charge the appropriate duties. where this is not the case, in any of the 28 member states, we will take action, we must take action and we must bring this to the appropriate procedures. the united kingdom has refused to be responsible for this and has refused to pay the corresponding amounts - i mentioned the 2.7 billion euros. the commission therefore decided on 24 september to take the procedure to the next stage and to adopt and send a reasoned opinion. we, as the commission, have a control function over the management of own resources in accordance with the relevant provisions of the eu's own resources system. we are also carrying out regular checks in the member states. this year alone we are carrying out 16 checks on undervalued imports. we regularly use olaf reports as a basis for conclusions and action. we are also regularly consulting olaf on this matter. we as the commission are determined to ensure the correct implementation of the eu customs code regulations and rules of the package in close cooperation with the member states and the industry. we are currently working with member states to develop a strategy on how best to monitor, evaluate and review the effectiveness of coherence and on which areas of the union customs code to carry out a first round of evaluation activities. as regards parliament's request that the commission should present its proposals for a definitive vat system in order to avoid losses in tax revenue in the eu and the member states, we would point out that the commission has now taken up your demands and adopted all the relevant proposals. we have also taken a number of initiatives to combat vat fraud. in july, the commission adopted a proposal for a directive on the criminal law applicable to fraud against the eu's financial interests. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud in the area of vat. in november last year, the commission proposed an automatic exchange of information between the member states of import and the member states of destination of the goods purchased for imports under the customs procedure 42. i am grateful that the proposal was adopted yesterday and that the council has thus created this appropriate basis. the new legal text explicitly addresses important aspects of crossborder fraud in the internal market, such as missing trader vat fraud. as far as the commission and our european information systems are concerned, we are involved through our funding programmes for the common and also the national components, because it remains a mainly national responsibility. all these measures and others will significantly strengthen the capacity of the commission and also of the national authorities to combat fraud and thus protect the european budget. these acts are in line with your expectations and those of the european court of auditors. in this context, we are grateful that the number of member states participating in the european public prosecutor's office has increased to a high level and we call on those not yet participating to join accordingly. in conclusion, the fight against customs fraud and thus the protection of the european budget and its revenue side are of the utmost importance to us. inefficient or incorrect enforcement of customs rules and lack of customs controls could damage the competitiveness of the european union and thus the foundations of our european programmes. if we take action against one member state, as we are doing here, it is to protect the financial interests of all member states and therefore our taxpayers. this is to avoid other member states and their taxpayers having to pay for the failures of one member state. it is about justice between member states and therefore for european citizens in all member states. the recent undervaluation case in the united kingdom has shown that without effective customs controls, fraudsters can rob the european budget of considerable sums of money which we urgently need for our daily tasks. that is why we have acted and reacted consistently, thoroughly and decisively, and we will bring the case - if necessary - to court as soon as possible so that we can also realise the corresponding amounts. i'm grateful to you. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this debate. we are happy to continue to report to you on the progress of the matter in the coming weeks.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. commissioner, thank you for your statement. i hear the words, but i lack the faith. i am not convinced because the other side of this house, the council - the member states - to whom this message is really addressed, is not present. member states have exclusive competence to implement the eu's competences in this area. it is therefore extremely regrettable that the member states have not considered it necessary to take part in this debate. 14 per cent of the eu budget is financed by customs duties. that means it's not a small thing. and that is why it is necessary that we sit down and think about how we can make things better. we are told that the uk case is not an isolated case, that what we see in the uk is what we see in many member states. if so, that would be most regrettable. there is no uniform customs control. this gives fraudsters the opportunity to choose the weakest link in the chain when importing goods into the eu. it's a popular occasion for risk assessments. this is how olaf naturally also detects problem cases. we believe that the customs legal framework is seriously flawed - here we are in good company with the european court of auditors - and that there are insufficient financial incentives for member states to carry out customs controls. it would be good if we could solve this problem here too. that 's why . the demands we make are clear and they are also contained in our resolution, namely the harmonization and standardization of customs controls in the member states, uniform sanctions in all member states for customs fraud. we want a single system of vat; that would be a tremendous relief. and we want to transfer the responsibilities of national customs authorities to the eu level for a uniform approach at all eu border crossing points. that is a controversial paragraph, and there will be a split vote on it tomorrow. i would therefore urge the house to support this request in the resolution.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the scale of customs fraud in the united kingdom that we are talking about tonight is appalling. how much are we talking about? we are talking about more than two billion euros, which have not only been lost from the eu budget but also, in part, from the budget of the united kingdom. two billion euros! that's almost the amount we spent on erasmus+ in 2018 - just to give an example - not to mention the vat that follows, which we haven't even talked about in depth tonight. how could britain not have detected this customs fraud, not taken action? in times of increasing globalisation, of increasing flows of goods, it is clear that customs is facing entirely new challenges. and if customs is not only charged with fiscal tasks, i.e. collecting customs duties, but also with protecting the internal market against product piracy or protecting internal security, it is quite clear that customs will reach its limits here. the national customs authorities are not in a position to handle all these tasks on their own. we need closer cooperation, better cooperation, better information exchange. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the council is already apparently in the process of reaching agreement on the customs procedure. but that can't be all! the international gangs are well connected. why can't we do this under our customs authorities? that is why we as social democrats - and we are not alone in this - are calling for the member states to make every honest effort to generate the eu's own resources, and ultimately their own resources, effectively in order to prevent customs fraud in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it is a special honour to be the last speaker in the final debate of the day. it is also something that you have to have done in your career as a member of the european parliament. so that's it for me now, hook it up. commissioner oettinger, thank you very much for your overview. we are discussing a case where national competences, namely taxation and customs supervision, clash with eu requirements, namely the revenue of the european union and the protection of the common market, where they clash. we have repeatedly observed, ladies and gentlemen, that member states are not particularly careful to comply with their obligations towards the european union and that they prefer to tolerate breaches of law rather than to hand over competences. i would like to speak briefly about the mff in this context, because we in the eu need additional funds for the increased expenditure of the eu. but not all member states see the need to mobilise additional funds. at the same time, however, we are also seeing too little of what the member states are doing to raise the eu's own resources and protect the eu's financial interests. i think we should point out this contradiction in the mff negotiations. i think this carelessness is no longer acceptable.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members very much for the discussion on this subject. public procurement is a very important subject. you have heard the data and you have heard the numbers, but at the same time, besides the data and the numbers, this is a powerful tool which can help carry out policy. we are not using the full potential of public procurement at the moment. taxpayers are often still not getting the best value for money and do not see results that provide them with the best public services. that’s why we decided last year – almost a year ago, in november last year – to adopt a public procurement package because we feel that we need a major shift in the culture of public procurement (pp). but at the same time it is also important, as you have heard, that this package is not new legislation. it is made up of voluntary measures, recommendations, suggestions, some new ideas and best practices. it calls for a wide partnership, but also for political ownership of this topic. the package is our attempt to jointly steer the political discussion on pp, to identify priorities and to offer tools for implementing them. we also underlined the role that public procurement can play in responding to european competitiveness and to societal environmental innovation challenges because we know that, for example, it can encourage energy and resource efficiency investment. it can foster innovation and facilitate social inclusion. we specifically addressed the importance of selecting the most economically advantageous tenders based on a cost effectiveness approach to get the best value for public money for all our citizens, but – as was said before – the most economically advantageous is not always the cheapest. it can never be underlined and repeated enough that eu law does not require the lowest price as the only award criteria. the package shows how the possibilities offered by the public procurement directives can be used to support wider eu policy objectives. it contains practical measures and guidance along with implementation support from the commission. so we recommend some actions and offer assistance at the same time. we organised the package around six priorities. let me briefly list them. the first one is ensuring wider use of innovative, green and social procurement, then professionalising public buyers – there we need the right competencies and skills of the people who are dealing with this topic – increasing access to procurement markets for smes and all eu businesses, though of course smes are at the centre of our interest, improving transparency and integrity, delivering better data, boosting the digital transformation of procurement, using technologies to simplify and to reorganise procedures, and cooperating more between authorities at different levels, to procure together. in march the council endorsed the package and underlined its importance for european competitiveness. in february we also discussed this package in the ecofin council to show the importance of good procurement for public budgets. we definitely know that improving the way procurement is carried out and focusing on the professionalisation of public buyers can really generate important savings in member states’ budgets. the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions have also adopted their opinions so i am very glad that today parliament will complete this interinstitutional cycle and adopt the own initiative report. i appreciate that this has been done after a thorough debate with contributions from many of you, under the really valuable leadership of mr coelho, together with the shadow rapporteurs. you have prepared a good report, which largely supports the commission’s proposed approach, while at the same time giving us food for thought for the future. i am also happy to see that there is a large degree of consensus within parliament and substantial agreement with the commission’s view on some specific issues. i will mention just three or four of them. first smes, as was underlined before. i would caution against too much pessimism. there is not a big share of smes participating in the public procurement market, and as the directive has only been recently transposed i think it will take some time before the simplification really takes effect. we have launched a recent study to identify the possible remaining barriers to sme participation in procurement. the second point is on quality criteria – what else? – and strategic procurement. here the situation varies enormously between the member states. in many there is still a lot of scope to increase the use of quality criteria. we believe that spreading the word that clarifying the lowest price is not mandatory at all, and obtaining high—level commitment to that principle is extremely important. i also think that we should make it easier to apply green, innovative and social procurement. that’s why we are updating existing guidance and compiling best practices to assist authorities incurring tenders. i would also like to stress that we fully share the views of the report when pointing at the huge benefits that digitisation of procurement could bring. the last point is on the professionalisation of public services, first through more cooperation and exchange of good practices. on this point i couldn’t agree more. we have launched an e—competence centre and a web page bringing together all guidance and good practice from different member states. we are developing a european competence framework for public buyers to make sure that the skills competences they require are clearly identified. these are the main points. thank you very much for taking this subject on board.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already done so. in fact, the public dimension of public procurement is often mentioned or analysed only in passing. but that would be a mistake. we are still in a situation where public procurement markets in third countries are often closed de jure and de facto to competitors from the european union. we need to get a better access point here. the commissioner has raised this issue: yes, the challenges and problems facing smes in particular, when it comes to the international dimension, must be taken seriously and seriously considered. a key problem in the path towards better market access is the multilateral agreements, especially the government procurement agreement. but regardless, better market access remains an important element of our bilateral trade talks as a core interest of the european union. and the ceta agreement, as well as the wpa with japan, are actually successful examples of this, which should also be brought forward in the future as pilot projects, as an important element for the further negotiations. conclusion: the international dimension of public procurement has the potential to make an important contribution to growth and job creation in europe as a growth driver.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not - i'm not sure. i am not going to go into detail. i am glad to see that mr böge of the committee on international trade has once again emphasized the global dimension of european public procurement law. and it is a good moment for me to point out that the thresholds we have in the european union, which are also set in germany, are not set by the european union but are derived from the global procurement agreement, and therefore should be in place and make it clear that the european economy - unlike some presidents of the united states of america - does not see europe first as the sole focus, but wants to ensure a certain openness of the markets, so that our companies can hope for the same openness in other markets. and in the long run, commissioner, they should not only be able to hope for this, but we must also put even more pressure on other countries to open their markets as much as we have opened ours. the report by mr coelho, which i very much welcome, makes it clear that there is no reason why 55% of contracts in the member states should still be awarded on the basis of the lowest price alone, because with the procurement directive and the 2014 reform we have actually created a lot of possibilities for contracting authorities, no matter what the level of government, to make the best offer eligible at the end. that is why i urge all contracting authorities - not only in germany but throughout europe - to think carefully about the conditions they include in the tender in order to actually get the best offer in the end and not to complain afterwards that the cheapest offer has been taken again and that there are certain legal difficulties in the process. i think, madam commissioner, that you have rightly pointed out that we can achieve a lot more flexibility and transparency with the digitalisation of public procurement law, and portugal is a shining example of this. this should be of considerable help to all european businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not mr ferreira has told us the funny story that this is all about multinational companies, as we have heard time and again. that is why i have two questions for him. first, have you really read the 2014 procurement reform and seen what has been done for small and medium-sized enterprises? secondly, what other selection criteria do you want to use if it is not the competition? maybe you have some good ideas i haven't heard about.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission has not yet adopted a decision on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. i would like to take up a point from mr coelho's excellent report which i consider very important. the report notes that the number of tenders with only one bid increased from 14% to 29% between 2006 and 2016. so to put it in a nutshell, one third of all tenders lead to a supplier. i find that number, to be honest, very, very alarming. and when you think about why this is, you have to take into account that it may also be too much effort for smes, for medium-sized enterprises, to participate in tenders. we have now built a new school in my home community. we were over the five million threshold again. that means we had a europe-wide bid and we had only one supplier. and i can tell you, the frustration in the public sector is huge, of course. you put out a call for applications all over europe, a huge effort with no end in sight, and then one person applies, or two from the region apply. the question is: must everything be advertised throughout europe? what am i trying to say? i would like to stress, firstly, that the interests of public authorities and the cost of public procurement must also be taken into account. and i would be very pleased if we could discuss the thresholds again - not now, not in the future, but when the rules on public procurement are revised. i like the instrument very much. we need transparency. we must allow fair competition in public tenders. but it cannot be that one third of all tenders will ultimately be completely wasted. we need to figure out what's causing this. i think that there is a need to make appropriate corrections in the construction sector in particular, because it is not sensible to come from portugal, cyprus or elsewhere to build schools in my home region of bavaria. so i'll just take that for the next revision.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. public procurement is a really sensitive activity where the state has to show that it is careful with the money of the citizens. that means that we have to consider several points here. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in order for citizens to understand what the state is doing with their money, there must be transparency. i think it is very important that these procedures should be set up in such a way that every citizen, every company, can really understand them. at the same time, we can only succeed in this if these procedures are as unbureaucratic as possible. that means, as mrs niebler said, that we cannot put everything on the same page. we must ensure that the procedures for bidders are carried out as efficiently as possible. otherwise, although we have great regulations in theory, in practice they are empty because then the companies are not able to meet all the conditions. we must therefore consider whether we cannot change the thresholds in individual areas in such a way as not to create unnecessary red tape.
a writer. the commission is not i want to speak urgently to the united arab states. well, now it's been corrected, that was wrongly displayed before. so again, the united arab emirates is violating basic human rights. government critics are arrested and sentenced to prison terms in unfair trials. according to amnesty international, prisoners are held in conditions that amount to torture. but allegations of torture are ignored by the authorities. in may, prominent human rights defender ahmad mansur was sentenced to 10 years in prison in abu dhabi on charges of legitimate expression of opinion. ahmad mansur has been subject to repression for years because of his human rights work. un human rights experts have called for his immediate release following his arrest in march 2017. he is accompanied by a number of other non-violent political prisoners serving long prison sentences, including dr mohammed al-roken. we call in our resolution for the immediate and unconditional release of ahmad mansur and all other nonviolent political prisoners in the united arab emirates. i find it very strange that the conservative groups, the ecr and the epp, do not want to support these fundamental human rights demands, and i therefore appeal to all colleagues to work for the release of ahmad mansur and to vote clearly for this resolution.
a writer. the commission is not - i'm not sure. i am not saying that we should not be concerned. the chinese communist leadership is establishing an extreme police state in xinjiang, where hundreds of thousands, if not more than a million chinese citizens of uighur and kazakh nationality are being imprisoned. the reason given is that terrorism must be fought. i say that those who think they can fight terrorism by general repression are really just ensuring that there is enough water in which the terrorists can swim like fish. if we want to combat terrorism, we must look at the experience of south tyrol or the experience of northern ireland. i find it remarkable that the ccp of china, while china is gaining strength as a country, feels so weak that it does not even respect its own laws and religious freedom towards its own citizens. i find it remarkable that china's leadership, while propagating the chinese dream, suppresses the actual dreams of its citizens, at least if they don't want to dream in step with the ccp's rhythm. i think it's a shame that china is also exporting this oppression. that's why we're against it. and finally, i would like to mention the name of ilham tohti, a scientist of uighur nationality who has been in a chinese prison for a long time for exercising his freedom of expression. we'll always remember him too.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. china has undergone an amazing economic development in recent years and decades. but unfortunately, this progress in the economic field has not been accompanied by progress in human rights and personal freedom. on the contrary, we are making a considerable step backwards here. this parliament has often dealt with human rights violations in china and has also passed resolutions on the subject. today, seven political groups are tabled a resolution on human rights violations in xinjiang. what we hear from there is hard to believe: a million people in so-called re-education camps, the total control of people over modern technological systems and the harassment of uighurs living abroad. we call on the chinese side to stop these practices. we are told that this is for security reasons, that there is terrorism and separatism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. china also loses a lot of credibility in the world. we see that germany and sweden have started to stop deporting uighurs and kazakhs because they are in danger of being severely disadvantaged there. we call on other countries to do the same. we also say: the eu must address these human rights violations at the highest level - all the heads of state of our member states are going to china. it is not something that can be treated with shyness and conservatism. so this resolution is receiving a great deal of support here in parliament, and i hope that the chinese side will respond to it.
the next item is the debate on the request for a written answer with debate by karin kadenbach, georges bach, catherine bearder, dominique bilde, richard corbett, miriam dalli, isabella de monte, jørn dohrmann, pascal durand, stefan eck, eleonora evi, john flack, jacqueline foster, eugen freund, arne gericke, michela giuffrida, karoline graswander-hainz, jytte guteland, martin häusling, anja hazekamp, maria heubuch, john howarth, jude kirton-darling, jeppe kofod, zisław krasnodębski, jean jo, leitz, liard arneutz, edouard lietz, alex martin, miranda mayer, ana mayer, marlene nozi, maria maria nozi, omar mizucci, yousic pipaucci, sir paco paol, sir paco paol, sir pavel taylor, thomas weitz, thomas weitz, thomas weitz, michael schwartz, and others, which was closed at the end of the debate.
mrs bieńkowska, we are very much looking forward to your answer.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i'm not sure. i am not going to go into detail. today we're going to talk about intensive broiler farming. when you see the commercial for chicken, it's the commercial for a new way of life. it's about light cooking, it's about modern cooking, low-calorie cooking. it's also about making sure you feel like you're buying an honest product. but nowhere is the gap between reality and advertising so great as in the chicken industry. if people knew how this supposedly lightweight product is produced, they would stay away from it. in other words, the advertising which sells us chicken meat as easy and modern in europe has nothing to do with reality. i would ask you, commissioner, to answer the following question: will you do everything in your power to bring these two things together? because the thoughts that people have in their minds when they think of chicken, and the reality? because chicken meat is healthy as it is produced, not for the chickens or for humans. the subject of antibiotics has been raised several times. although it is often mentioned in magazines, chicken meat cannot be healthy in this way. how easy can it be? it may be easy to buy chicken, but the lives of animals are not easy. the lives of animals are often without adequate space, without water, without ventilation in an ammonia tank, in an ammonia cloud, for which people usually have to put on a gas mask because they can't really stand this ammonia cloud. so it's not easy! and the next question is, is it honest? we in europe stand for honest transparency, which is something that consumers should support in their purchasing behaviour. and it's not honest! we urgently need better labelling to make it clear what product the buyer is buying when he goes into a store. we need labelling, we need more honesty in transport, more honesty in slaughter, more honesty in the selection of breeds. there would have been mixed breeds for a long time, or slower-growing breeds that would have had something to do with the product. commissioner, you have a lot of responsibility. and in the word responsibility is the word response. the commission and you must answer these questions. i would like to ask you to take action on the matter of chicken fat in europe, because chicken fat in europe is still a dirty trick. we need to find out.
the commission has already done so. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the use of antibiotics in chicken feed is not restricted to the same areas as in other areas of the community. in addition to broad-spectrum antibiotics, reserve antibiotics are being used irresponsibly, which are used in human medicine as a last resort for various diseases, because there are more and more strains of bacteria that have become resistant to antibiotics as a result of agricultural practices. the antibiotics used are not only contaminating poultry meat, but also the excrement and slaughter waste, our drinking water and our soil. do you realise what is happening, what a disaster is being caused, that the commission is courting the chicken barons with its policy? it is, in effect, digging the grave for future generations who will die of these diseases, of multi-resistant diseases. ten years ago, three units of antibiotics were enough to cure pneumonia in a few days, and today old people are dying en masse in our hospitals from pneumonia bacteria because nothing is helping. the commission is responsible for this. it is a shame that the commission has acted and is acting so hesitantly, it is a scandal to the core. i therefore say to you: i expect the commission to act now, otherwise the animal rights activists will act!
i was a little more generous with the speaking time today because i don't have any catch-the-eye messages. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place during the october ii partsession.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
mr president, dear colleagues, one year ago an overwhelming majority of this house voted in favour of a resolution in order to fight against sexual harassment in the european union and specifically also after cases of sexual harassment had come to the surface here in this house, and more than that, 130 000 citizens of the european union signed a petition in order to implement this resolution. one year later, mr president, this resolution has still not been fully implemented. the external audit as well as the review of the committee against sexual harassment have still not been finalised, and the mandatory trainings for meps have even been taken out of the action plan. i call on you, mr tajani: this is our common responsibility towards the people who work here in this parliament, but also as a role model to all citizens in the european union. act on this. make the european union a front-runner in the fight against sexual harassment. the time is now. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not i would like to say that the honourable member is right and that we are very interested in this debate. there is one point i would like to add: it is a situation in which the european union must speak clearly with one voice. and this house should call for it not just to be a matter for individual member states to react to a country which openly allows murder, but for the european union as a whole to act internationally in such a situation. this is of particular importance to my group.
president-in-office of the council. – mr. president, dear commissioner cañete, honourable members of the parliament, thank you very much for the opportunity to participate in this debate regarding two very important upcoming conferences. allow me to first talk about the katowice climate conference, before turning to the cop14 on biological diversity. as you are aware, only recently the intergovernmental panel on climate change special report on the impacts of global warming of 1.0° above pre-industrial levels constituted yet another scientific finding on the negative impacts of climate change. the council conclusions adopted on 9 october fully recognise the urgency of the global response to the threat. the european union and its member states can lead by example. we have more than two decades of experience in designing and implementing climate policies to drive the transition to a low-greenhouse-gas-emissions economy, and this transition is happening while boosting growth and jobs, thanks to the development of clean technologies and low or zero carbon energy. the european union is forging ahead with the implementation of its nationally-determined contribution, and the european parliament has played a leadership role in promoting the high level of european union ambition. in the recent periods, we have reached political agreement on the key legislative pillars of the 2030 climate and energy framework, including the emissions trading system, the effort sharing regulation, land use and forestry and also on targets for renewables, energy efficiency and governance of the energy union. we are committed to continuing our efforts on climate action and agree with this house that a clear and comprehensive paris rulebook is absolutely vital. concluding our work at cop24 and making the paris agreement operational is critical for its effective and comprehensive implementation by parties as well as for their credibility on the unfccc process. the talanoa dialogue taking place throughout 2018 is the first opportunity since paris to look at our collective efforts to limit global warming and what we have done concretely in terms of delivering on the commitments made as well as opportunities to enhance ambition. the european union and its member states see this dialogue as one of the key processes this year. the european union organised an ‘eu for talanoa’ event in brussels in june with broad participation of policymakers and stakeholders. member states, including austria, organised their talanoa events throughout the year. the european union and its member states are committed to continuing scaling up the mobilisation of international climate finance. the observed progression of eu climate finance over the past years is in line with the 2016 usd 100 billion roadmap. it represents a substantial contribution towards meeting this collective goal together with the other developed countries. our public climate-specific finance has almost doubled in nominal terms over the last three years. the european union and its member states are collectively the largest provider of climate finance to developing countries, amounting to above eur 20 billion in 2017. this figure includes contributions from public budgets and development finance institutions. it also includes 2.7 billion from the european union budget and 1.9 billion from the european investment bank. the european union is also a top contributor to multilateral funds and mechanisms. the eu and its member states are the largest contributors to the green climate fund, with a total of usd 4.7 billion committed, accounting for almost half of the total pledges made during the initial resource mobilisation. we have strongly supported the 7th replenishment of the global environment facility with a commitment of about eur 1.9 billion, accounting for over 50% of the total contributions. let me also stress the importance of making global finance flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient development. climate finance is a contribution towards this necessary global transition. the european union is taking steps with its action plan in financing sustainable growth. as in the past, the council counts on your sustained commitment. in this context i welcome also your resolution on the katowice conference. president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me now turn to the cop14 on biological diversity. the council agrees with the parliament that the protection of global biodiversity is an essential challenge. like the parliament, the council is greatly concerned that the natural resource-base and ecosystem services on which humanity depends are at a high risk and that pressures driving biodiversity loss continue to increase. increased efforts are thus necessary from all parties and stakeholders to fully implement the strategic plan for biodiversity 2011 to 2020 and achieve its aichi biodiversity targets. the council shares the parliament’s view that we need an ambitious follow-up to the strategic plan for biodiversity beyond 2020. it stresses that this should be an overarching biodiversity framework that places biodiversity and ecosystem services high on political agendas, strengthening the implementation of the biodiversity convention and its protocols and of other biodiversity related multilateral environmental agreements and relevant sdgs. the new framework should pave the way towards the achievement of the 2050 vision on biodiversity. another important element of the post-2020 global biodiversity framework is resource mobilisation. it should include the mobilisation of resources from all sources, including from domestic resources and from the private sector, as well as the efficient and targeted use of available resources. as regards financial support for biodiversity, the council believes that the global environment facility trust fund has proven to be an important financing instrument for addressing drivers of environmental degradation and biodiversity loss and has a strong track record in delivering overall good project performance. the national biodiversity strategies and action plans are and will remain the main instruments for implementing the convention on biodiversity and its protocols. therefore it is crucial that member states and all parties to the conventions increase their efforts to ensure their timely and effective implementation. additional measures to complement and support the national strategies and action plans will be discussed on cop14 in egypt, in the context of the post-2020 global biodiversity framework.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for the opportunity to have this important debate as we look ahead to the preparations for the upcoming cop24 (conference of the parties) – the united nations framework convention on climate change in katowice in poland in december. the consequences of climate change are not a problem for others or for the future; impacts are already being felt – devastation by floods, wildfires, heatwaves and hurricanes, including on our continent. two weeks ago, the special report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change on the impacts of global warming of 1.5°c above pre-industrial levels was released, and the report highlights the extreme urgency of climate action and the need to do more to reduce emissions in all sectors in order to limit global warming. against this backdrop, the european union envisages three broad deliverables for cop24, which are reflected also in the cop24 council conclusions adopted on 9 october and endorsed by the european council last week. firstly, we must conclude the paris work programme, which concerns the detailed governance rules for the implementation of the paris agreement. securing this outcome is necessary to make the paris agreement operational. secondly, at the political phase of the talanoa dialogue, ministers will reflect on the adequacy of the current contributions and of international cooperation for climate action, and the insights from the recent ipcc 1.5° special report should be an important element in the discussion. the outcome of the talanoa dialogue should be a commitment of all parties to enhance their efforts to deliver the paris commitments and to reflect on their level of ambition in view of informing the update or confirmation of the nationally-determined contributions by 2020 in line with the paris agreement. thirdly, the european union attaches great importance to the other high-level events in katowice. we are looking forward to the high-level ministerial dialogue on climate finance and the stocktake on pre-2020 implementation and ambition to showcase progress and identify opportunities for action. we are contributing towards the developed countries’ collective goal of mobilising usd 100-billion per year by 2020 to address the needs of developing countries. in 2017, the commission and the european investment bank contributed approximately eur 5.5 billion of climate finance to developing countries. that is encouraging, but we must continue to catalyse and accelerate action from all economic actors to reach the objectives of the paris agreement. we should all offer our strong support to the polish cop24 presidency with a view to a successful outcome in katowice.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank, first and foremost, parliament for its strong support for biodiversity policy. although less visible in the media, the global biodiversity crisis has social and economic implications known to be as serious as the climate crisis. indeed, the two global challenges are intrinsically linked. this commission has already done a lot to tackle the problem and the work to scale up efforts will continue right through to the end of our current mandate. let me mention, in particular, the action plan for nature, people and the economy, to accelerate implementation of the eu nature directives; the eu initiative to tackle the decline of pollinators; two guidance documents on integrating ecosystem services in decision-making and on eu-level green infrastructure, to be adopted soon; and ongoing work on a second update of the union list of invasive alien species of union concern. i would also highlight the important work we are doing to engage the private sector in this issue under the eu business @ biodiversity platform and through the natural capital financing facility, which has strong synergies with the concrete proposals adopted by this commission under the sustainable finance package. building on these instruments, coupled with efforts to tackle climate change, including through transforming development aid policy and increased investments in africa, should in future help to leverage more effectively the resources and commitments needed to address global biodiversity decline. we are also tackling the problem at international level through other means, namely our action plan against wildlife trafficking and our work on forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt). member states also have important responsibilities and the commission will continue supporting their efforts whilst continuing to ensure compliance with eu nature legislation. for the period after 2020, the commission has proposed an enhanced life programme that will notably include a stronger focus on nature and biodiversity. most importantly, given the crucial importance of sound agricultural policy to reverse biodiversity decline, as you know, the commission has adopted a new legislative proposal on the common agricultural policy (cap) post-2020, which includes higher climate and environmental ambitions. it will be of utmost importance that this house fully backs these ambitions. with regard to the post-2020 global biodiversity framework, the commission concurs with the council’s conclusions of 9 october that the framework should include targets that are, as far as possible, measurable and time-bound, an adequate monitoring framework and voluntary commitments from parties, citizens and the private sector, accompanied by a mechanism to review their implementation and to ensure accountability. this should be accompanied by an action agenda that mobilises non-state actors, communication campaigns and the political process at the highest levels. these elements should significantly strengthen global biodiversity policy.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, i also extend my warmest greetings to the council. biodiversity and climate change are interrelated. while cop 24 in katowice is discussing the implementation of paris, cop 14 in egypt is celebrating its 25th anniversary this year. we take this opportunity to reiterate and reinforce the importance of protecting our biodiversity worldwide. we therefore believe, together with our colleagues in the other groups, that it is essential to step up efforts and to draw up an ambitious strategic plan for the period after 2020 with a view to 2050. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, including the countries of the former soviet union, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe. in the resolution we address six points, two of which i would like to mention explicitly: our call for a robust international framework for the period after 2020 we are in favour of performance indicators, which is also a key point for the effectiveness of the 2050 strategic plan and also in particular the highlighting of the positive contributions of forestry and agriculture to biodiversity. only well managed agriculture and forestry make a major contribution to the diversity of species, habitats and ecosystems.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would like to thank the commissioners, the council and, of course, my colleagues. we have just heard something about climate change and the mountain region. i want to get into the wet element and talk about what climate change means for the oceans. the oceans are enormously important to us. every second breath comes from the ocean, because that's where oxygen is produced, and it can be produced less as climate change continues. because it's also true that co2 can be sequestered by the oceans. so again, the oceans -- healthy oceans -- have an important climate function. now, for example, the melting of the polar ice caps -- the greenland ice cap is melting -- is changing the water: it's becoming less salty. this slows down the rate at which it sinks to the ground, and so there is a change in freshwater exchange. this in turn affects the gulf stream, which also makes our climate. it's going to happen sooner or later, because the gulf stream has already slowed down and is changing in its shape, something that has been happening for almost millennia -- not for millennia, but it's been happening for a long time -- something is changing: europe could get colder, the east coast of north america could get warmer. and of course, this also affects the biodiversity that exists in each zone: on fisheries and many other things. and another thing, we've heard about coral reefs. at 1.5 degrees, many coral reefs are already dying, at 2 degrees they will die. and now you can say, well, you can't see such beautiful colorful fish when you dive. but that's not the point. the point is really that coral reefs are the nursery for a lot of species that live and grow in the ocean, and they're also a bulwark against natural disasters like tsunamis and so on. so they also have a protective function for the respective continents. the last one: if sea levels rise, then islands will disappear. you can say, "well, a few islands less". but of course, as mrs van brempt has already mentioned, there are climate refugees, and this has a major impact on this. sea level rise varies greatly depending on where you are on the globe. so, the ocean is very important to people, and that's why we should be careful to address climate change.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu has set itself ambitious climate targets in recent years. the aim is to reduce co2 emissions by 45% by 2030 - in just 11 years. so far, there is no indication that the target can be achieved. in recent years, the eu has even slightly increased its emissions. germany - my country - plays an unflattering role in this. while we made at least continuous progress between 1990 and 2009, we have stagnated over the last decade and never recovered the good figure of 2009. the unthinking abandonment of nuclear energy is a key factor. the security of supply of an industrial nation cannot be guaranteed by wind and solar energy, which is why we must resort to brown coal. green dreams often fail to match reality. if you want to make environmentally friendly policies, you also have to talk to technicians, engineers and scientists, that is, be impressed by feasibility. if you dream of an electric car but do not want to use nuclear power or lignite, but instead cut down forests that have grown over centuries for windmills, so as to destroy the habitat of animals in a sustainable way, you have to ask yourself how well-thought-out your plans are.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the resolution on cop 24 in katowice contains many important points which we are sure to support jointly. we need a clear signal that the climate change process will continue no matter what president trump decides. i was very encouraged last year in bonn when many representatives of the united states - from business, from the regions, from the states - said: we are staying with this, we are going through this process, and we also see great opportunities for jobs and economic growth. however, i find this debate very difficult. we need to raise our targets now - dramatically. i spoke to many representatives of third countries in bonn and some of them did not understand my question at all. we all know that the commitments we have made are not enough; we must increase our efforts. we are about to reach 3°c if everyone supports their paris commitments, and that is a long way from 2°c alone. that is why i do not think it is appropriate to decide now, as the resolution calls for, on 55% in the eu and not see what is happening in the rest of the world. i support our commissioner, miguel arias cañete, and i am very pleased that he has done so. we can raise the european climate target by implementing the legislation we have already adopted, but not to 55, but to less. but more importantly, we're starting an international process with china and others, so that we're not the only ones raising the bar.
i have to say, madam president, this year's climate conference in poland is a test for the world community. the report of the world climate council is a big deal. we are too late, we are not doing enough, and the effort must be improved. first of all, of course, we need the rulebook of data transparency, so that we know what everyone is doing, and there is no room for deception, and we can measure the real progress. it is also a test for europe. it is a climate conference again on our continent, in the european union, and we should lead by example. i can join with all those who say here that we must offer the world community a higher ambition of the european union. and we can do that because of the legislation that's behind us. i hope that the council of environment ministers and other decision-makers can decide by katowice to increase our 40% reduction target. it is true that europe cannot protect the climate alone; we need others in the world. we may have to think about measures at our borders in the future, because then we have the costs for our companies, but others do not have the costs for their companies. we shall have to talk about border duties in favour of climate protection. but we also need the long-term perspective, the long-term plan to 2050. i hope that this will be a blueprint for the future of the eu. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the production of electric cars and the diesel bashing by mr murdoch - that's a real spagat. in fact, you are raising a subject that we all know, that we need new forms of propulsion, that we are concerned to see more of them being produced outside the eu than inside the eu tesla in the us and the chinese there in their country. i think the car industry needs to understand that the clock is ticking for them if they don't modernize.
the president of the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i am honoured to be here again today to follow the debate in parliament on the 2019 budget. i myself had the opportunity to comment on the commission and council proposal to you a month ago in the form of the council's report on the commission proposal, and i concluded at that time that we are pursuing a common basis in the main points of our proposals - in the priorities we want to set together for this europe. we share the same priorities: a growing, innovative and competitive economy, which we consider a priority, and at the same time we want to give europe's young people, in particular, a new chance to achieve their full potential. in their proposal which i have presented, the member states are prepared to finance a substantial increase in the budget compared with previous years in order to meet these challenges. the council itself proposes to increase the budget by more than 2% in the current budget, which is a much higher base than the national budgets of many countries. as a finance minister, i am faced every day - also in my own country - with the fact that there must of course also be an awareness that public budgets are financed by taxpayers and that we therefore also bear responsibility for the decisions we take here in this context. ladies and gentlemen, i would also like us to take note of the fact that the subject of science occupies a very, very important place in the council's proposal in particular, and we also see in it the possibility of promoting social peace and safeguarding jobs in europe. we also want to ensure that people in europe find a faster way - both on the internet and in traditional transport. and we also want to ensure that migration, as one of europe's biggest challenges, is properly supported. to put it more concretely, our proposal therefore provides for a 10% increase in the erasmus programme, a substantial increase in the area of horizon 2020, 30% more also for data and transport networks and a substantial increase in the budget for the migration issue. but we must also be clear that we can only set these priorities if we also handle the other areas of europe's financial resources with care. i can only repeat: this 2019 budget must also be designed in an efficient, modern and appropriate way to create this space for priorities. we also want to have sufficient margin to deal with unforeseen situations. we all realise that not only brexit within europe, but also global conditions pose major challenges, and we should also take responsibility for the citizens of europe in this context, including providing the financial means for this. i think it is particularly important, also in connection with the discussion of this budget, to respect the decisions taken in the past. we have a multiannual financial framework, we have the mid-term review, but we have also made financial arrangements in connection with legislative proposals. i would also ask you to respect these provisions. i am sure that we can keep to the timetable we have set ourselves, which has been agreed between our institutions for the budget negotiations. we also want to ensure that we can reach an agreement within the time limits set out in the treaty. i look forward to the further discussions and negotiations we will have together in the coming weeks.
member of the commission. madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i would like to begin by expressing my respect to the rapporteurs, mr viotti and mr rübig, for the excellent work they have done here in this house in preparing a position which you will be discussing and adopting this week. the council, parliament and commission we agree on the priorities we want to achieve, improve and strengthen with budgetary resources. it is about economic strength and growth, it is about jobs and employment, especially for young people, it is about meaningful projects in the field of migration, it is about external and internal security. i would also like to thank you, minister löger, for showing by your presence that it is your job to lead these negotiations in 2019 and to be accountable with all due respect to your officials . i would like to thank you for the hours you have spent here and for your willingness to work with us in the coming weeks in the interests of an orderly adoption. there is another difference in the need for funds for the programmes which we are focusing on. the allocation of funds for the priorities will therefore require expert and thorough consultation in the coming weeks. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply, but i would like to ask him to make a few comments on the commission's proposal. the timetable for mid-november is clear, and i see a good chance of reaching an agreement in that period, which we have jointly decided by successive meetings. what are the most important questions for the concertation? firstly, competitiveness. the commission is proposing to increase the number of programmes for smes, young people, climate change and competitiveness beyond the commission's proposal. the council wants to increase programmes such as horizon 2020 or connecting europe compared to 2018, if the commission's proposal is accepted, to cut them down slightly. we shall be able to discuss this in depth in the coming weeks, in the light of projects for which funding is being requested and in the light of ongoing and new research projects. i believe that research and innovation, that the promotion of smes is crucial to european competitiveness, should be unquestioned in this house and between all three institutions. in particular, we see in connecting europe and horizon 2020 programmes with a high european added value where it makes sense to bring funds to the european level and then invest together. the council's cuts of eur 800 million are therefore not really comprehensible in our view and are contrary to these commonly declared priorities. we must all be clear: if you set priorities, you must also be prepared to say where you do not prioritize, where you accept cuts. the employment situation for young people has improved in europe. this is true for most regions, but not all. the programmes we are now continuing to finance are therefore about accuracy and about the question: what can be done by the member states and the local administrations? the medium-term approach only makes sense if it is ambitious but also realistic. we have to be very careful about the way we use our resources, and we have to be very careful about the way we use them. erasmus+ should be easy to reach agreement on. it makes sense to build on this and, especially in these times, it serves to help young people get to know europe and therefore also to support europe on the way to the rest of their lives. the third priority is foreign policy and migration. the commission presented a new migration package in september, with which we want to take the first steps towards strengthening frontex, the border and coast guard. we think it is very important that parliament should support this. the refugee facility in turkey. in retrospect, i can tell you that despite the anti-eu policy of the government in ankara, the funds are coming in one by one to the places where refugees are temporarily housed. we fund dignity for 1.2 million refugees. the first instalment is paid and spent. the commission's concern, therefore, in the matter of who is financing what, is one: we cannot afford to delay, we should keep our word, we need another three billion euros for the second tranche, so that this financing of human dignity for the number of refugees continues without interruption, for example by employing 8 000 teachers, so that for young people - 300 000 in number - lessons, basic education, also remains possible. we should not be too obvious on this issue to ankara, we should keep our word in the interests of the people we all care about. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we should only invest as much as we can in projects for democracy, for the rule of law, for civil society, for the values system, for ngos. this means that the more and the sooner we have projects and contacts going in the right direction, it makes sense to provide money for this. that's all we need. we sent you a letter of amendment a few days ago. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we have also put into figures recently adopted legislative proposals in our letter of amendment. the new programme for industrial development in the defence sector, the european solidarity corps, the programme to support structural reforms and also three new commission proposals: to increase frontex by 750 posts next year, to strengthen the european asylum agency and to create 10 posts for the work of our parties and foundations. i look forward to a good consultation. we'll do everything we can to meet the deadline.
the committee also adopted a number of opinions on the following subjects: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. i support the call of the committee on development to finally increase oda to 0.7% of gnp by 2030. this applies both to the member states and to the eu. the eu has committed to spending a total of 0.2% of gross national income on the least developed countries. the committee also called for the first time in this year's decision for the costs of hosting refugees in donor countries to be excluded from the calculation of official development assistance. only if the 0.7% funding target is also achieved by the eu in the coming years, as is already the case in many member states, will the 2030 agenda with its sustainability targets have any chance at all. unfortunately, the eu has so far lacked the will to implement the objectives of the sustainable development agenda in development cooperation through a clear strategic budgetary prioritisation.
the committee on budgetary control, which is consultative, has adopted an opinion. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the 2019 budget shows how new challenges and institutions have come to the eu budget that need to be funded, such as the european solidarity corps, an eu-wide reserve of capacity for disaster response and others commissioner oettinger had mentioned them , while continuing existing efforts. the current multiannual financial framework will be brought to an end with the financial year 2019. the commission is also concerned that the implementation of programmes under shared management is still very slow. but a long-cherished wish of the committee on budgetary control is now finally coming true: the european public prosecutor's office is being set up. the recent murders of investigative journalists who also dealt with the misuse of european funds show how necessary this institution is. the budgetary and staffing arrangements are far too limited to enable the authority to start work. the member states which have not yet joined the european public prosecutor's office should also do so.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on industry, research and energy. the commission is not prepared to accept this. now i have a microphone. i was in the middle of writing my notes, so you're catching me a little bit by surprise. first of all, thank you very much, mr. löger, for coming. it is an honour that the finance minister, who is presenting the council's position, is actually here. we're not used to that. i would like to thank you again on behalf of my colleagues for your presence. it shows how seriously you take the debate on the european budget. thank you for that, but it's going to be a fight. i am listening to you and i hear you stress that the council is increasing the budget because you are taking last year's budget in comparison. but the commission has, of course, proposed even more substantial efforts, which we have welcomed, and you are cutting back on them, not in areas where the content is clear, but in areas where it is usually stressed that the european union's innovative nature is of great importance, and you cut back for the sake of brevity. that is why the committee on industry has withdrawn all these cuts. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. we want to restore the budgets cut by the efsi, we want to achieve the eu's sustainable development goals and we are in favour of a clear distinction between research funds for civilian and military purposes. that is why our aim is to obtain new additives for military research.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. – madam president, i am replacing my colleague morten løkkegaard from alde because he could not be here tonight. the main plea of the culture committee is to budget up. we know there’s a lot of scepticism toward elites in europe and with our programmes for education, culture, media and inclusion via cultural and cultural diversity, we reach out to individuals. i think that is very important in the current situation. we have very good programmes and we want to budget up erasmus in 2019 by even 15% because we can show that it is a very successful programme, a flagship programme, and the same with creative europe, the culture programme. i’m just back from the film festivals in europe and we have to support our european films, not to leave it to hollywood and bollywood. and we know that media freedom and media plurality to a certain extent are endangered in the european union, so we should do the utmost to foster them and to have really quality journalism all over the european union.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs. – madam president, i am speaking in my capacity as vice-chair of the committee on constitutional affairs (afco). we would like to highlight two points in relation to the budget. firstly, 2019 is not only the year of the european elections but it could also be the first year after the withdrawal of a member state. therefore, it is of paramount importance to keep the communication with european citizens open. we have to increase our efforts to engage them and mobilise them to vote in these elections. we have to make sure that next year’s budget contains the necessary resources to respond to citizens’ expectations. secondly, it is very disappointing that the council has once again made unnecessary cuts to the programmes in the area of citizenship. the council did so despite these programmes’ excellent implementation rates. in afco, we are now very happy to see that the committee on budgets has followed our recommendation and has restored all lines at least to the level of the draft budget.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. the commission's proposal for the 2019 budget provided for an increase of the budget of around 3% compared to 2018. this sum has now been increased by another 700 million in the committee on budgets. i think it is the wrong signal to simply and emphatically call for more money without actually giving life to the priorities that are set. there are good reasons to spend more money in some areas. the areas of security, migration, energy policy, but also innovation and research, deserve to be generously and adequately funded. but that does not necessarily mean that you have to spend more money overall at the same time. because there are of course also ways of freeing up money elsewhere by shifting and saving, so that you don't need more money. i think it is a fallacy when mr fernandes has just said, for example, that we are doing nothing but supporting the people and spending more money. it is necessary to say that this money, which is to be spent here, is taken from the citizens in advance - taken by means of taxes. this money doesn't fall from the sky. i am therefore convinced that the citizens will thank us if we use this money very sparingly. we should do this, and we should also define the measures we want to implement in a measurable way and then have the courage to say: have these objectives actually achieved anything or have these objectives been achieved at all? this is crucial. we cannot simply define measures that look good on paper. i think we must finally do more for subsidiarity in the budgetary field too. the eu should not claim responsibility for everything. the result is that we have a lot of pots, and that makes us lose transparency about this budget and we end up not getting better, but worse.
the commission has already done so. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr viotti, and my colleagues for the excellent cooperation which has enabled us to find really good and useful compromises. i am also pleased that we can act so strongly and together in the priorities. i think that means, first of all, that we must keep a close eye on the issue of innovation and competition and that we still have programmes in the field of science where excellent projects are submitted, but because of underfunding of the programmes there are not enough funding opportunities available and the rejection rates are up to 95, 96%, although it is not due to the quality of the science projects but to the lack of funding. secondly, i think it is very important that we pay more attention to erasmus and discover eu, and that we are clear that the european union is built on a young generation that should understand each other, that should get to know the eu, get to know different countries and benefit accordingly. the last point for me remains the issue of security and migration, where we need to equip our agencies adequately to carry out their tasks.
i have to say, madam president, as one of the youngest members of this house, i must stress once again that i still think it is very right and important that we as the european union have set ourselves the task of combating youth unemployment and have rightly made this a priority. with the erasmus+ programme, we enable millions of europeans to go abroad, to learn about other cultures, to continue their education, to gain new professional experience or to experience european voluntary service. we give all these people the opportunity to be united in diversity. it is therefore quite right that the motto of the european union here, or a priority of the european parliament, is to support the young generation. with the employment initiative, we're bringing young people back to work. the unemployment rate for young people in the european union is still far too high. if europe's young people are to have a future, or if europe is to have a future, then we must give europe's young people a future, and this parliament's draft makes that very, very clear. i hope that by increasing the funds for the fight against youth unemployment by 350 million and by increasing the erasmus+ programme by 360 million, we will send a clear signal to the heads of state and government.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 24 october 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the debate on the report of mr michel dantin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the quality of water intended for human consumption (com (((2017) 0753 c8-0019/2018 2017/0332 ((cod)) (a8-0288/2018).
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to first warmly thank mep michel dantin and all the shadow rapporteurs for the hard work done on the proposal for a revised drinking water directive. the commission welcomes the european parliament’s work and the fact that the european parliament’s amendments are largely aligned with the main elements of our proposal. i would like to recall that the main objective of our proposal is to ensure the safety of drinking water in the european union for the 21st century. we should be proud that today, most people living in the eu enjoy drinking water that is of the highest standards worldwide. this is the result of over thirty years of successful eu drinking water policies and rules. the proposal builds on this success but recognises that change is necessary if we want to ensure that this remains the case for the next 20 years. besides, it fulfils the commission’s response to the citizens’ right2water initiative. it is very important that you get a mandate from the plenary tomorrow to start trilogues. in this respect, i can assure you that the commission is doing its utmost to help the austrian presidency and member states to reach a common ground so that negotiations can start as soon as possible. let me also underline that, in acting as an honest broker to facilitate an agreement between the co-legislators, the commission would uphold the important objective of this proposal, which i believe we all share. i know that on some issues, political opinions differ, such as the question of how best to ensure access to water and the issue of the strictness of health standards. these questions are crucial for european citizens, and the solutions we propose will bring positive change to their daily life. i have taken good note of the latest amendments tabled. let me therefore once again call on the parliament to support the commission’s ambition to protect even better the health of our citizens by proposing strict health standards. let me also call on you to agree on rules on access to water – which are ambitious and workable at the same time – in order to ensure that our citizens across the eu truly have better access to this indispensable resource.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it is a good idea that in future citizens everywhere in the european union should be able to get free, high-quality drinking water in public places, in restaurants. but a good idea can also be ruined by prescribing it centrally from brussels without the necessary money. there are also legal questions about whether we can actually enforce that. that is why i think that we in the epp approve the commission's proposal. we should support the local authorities and many in the european union. member states should support the provision of free drinking water, because i believe we should not and cannot impose this. i think that michel dantin and the committee on the environment have produced a good report. it balances the costs to local authorities with the urgent need to protect our water even better. it is already the safest and most controlled food in the european union. i think that we should not exaggerate, but we should be proportionate. but i think we can support in good conscience what the committee has put forward. i hope that tomorrow we will reject the wide-ranging amendments tabled by the socialists and others and vote in favour of the michel dantin report by a large majority.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we have perfectly good drinking water in europe. in a review of the data from 15 member states in 2015, the commission has found that the compliance rate of the microbiological and chemical parameters is 99%. our report is a key contribution to ensuring that this remains the case for years to come, despite new challenges such as microplastics and pharmaceutical residues. i very much welcome the fact that we are significantly expanding consumer information. we can be proud of our good tap water. unfortunately, this has not always been the case with consumers. however, it is also important to me that the water suppliers can put the directive into practice. the organization of water supply varies widely between member states. we must take this into account and not put obstacles in the way of good forms of organization, such as the municipal water supply. i have therefore tabled amendments on two subjects for tomorrow's vote. firstly, i would suggest that the tried and tested system of measurement frequency, annex ii, part b, be maintained. this allows the measurement frequency to be precisely adapted to the size of the water supply, in accordance with the principle of proportionality. the amendments proposed by the commission and the committee would lead to a substantial increase in the costs of some water suppliers without any improvement in health protection. secondly, i propose that the additional information requirements for large water suppliers in annex iv be limited to information directly related to water quality. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's energy policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
i want to apologize again for making this mistake. it was not malice; please believe me!
we have twice as many voice messages as we planned to process. i therefore intend to include only those speakers who have not yet spoken in any of the spontaneous votes. spontaneous speech
member of the commission. – mr president, i very much welcome the messages from the parliament confirming that everybody agrees that the eu should respond and act in the interest of our citizens and that everybody supports the sustainable development goal 6 and better access to water. i am hoping to see this reflected in the results of the vote tomorrow so that parliament comes to trilogues with an ambitious position when it comes to health protection and access to water. as you know, this proposal has been highlighted by president juncker in his letter of intent to president tajani and chancellor kurz as a key initiative for adoption before the european elections next year, contributing to the first priority of the agenda for jobs growth, fairness and democratic change agreed in july 2014. i would like to reiterate that the commission stands ready to help the co-legislators reach an agreement that will support the objectives we all share and will ensure that our citizens benefit from the highest health protection for decades to come. i wish you success for the vote tomorrow and thank you once again for your commitment to this fight.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 23 october 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by frédérique ries, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reduction of the impact of certain plastic products on the environment (com ((2018) 0340 c8-0218/2018 2018/0172 ((cod)) (a8-0317/2018).
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i am not sure that this is the case. thank you very much for submitting the report. we waited a little while for it, but now it was here. i would also like to thank you, mrs ries, for your report. you have worked very neatly and quickly on this report. i can confirm that this has been a pleasure for all of us. we've heard how many hundreds of thousands of tons of waste are in the oceans. we know how many hundreds of millions of euros of losses are being lost to the economies, and that is why the ten or now twelve points we have listed are exactly right. i am in favour of this. i would like to come to a point which is very important to me because i have been reporting on waste for some 25 years in this house and i have had the stupid habit of looking over the last few years at what is actually happening with these reports. and sometimes breakfast doesn't taste good in the morning, when you see how little success we've had. that is debatable, but i would object. i 'll tell you what . it is very important that we get cooperation in this report with industry, with recyclers and with consumers. unless industry finally understands that it has to engage with recyclers, how to develop a product that can be dismantled again, unless this awareness is slowly but surely taking hold, we will not achieve the recycling targets. writing them down is not enough. we must develop motivation, we must get the smes to do so. i am not at all trying to discredit plastic, not at all, quite the opposite! but i want what the producers put together to be eventually separated by other industries and then recycled. mr president, if we do not do this, your grandchildren and my grandchildren will one day have real problems with the supply of raw materials. commissioner, your work on this was right and good, thank you very much!
mrs ries, you have been in parliament for quite some time. you should know that the blue card is not for you to make another statement. that was not a question to my colleague agnew. mr agnew, i would still like to give you the opportunity to reply if you wish.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have a huge problem with plastic in the ocean. it is therefore good that the european commission has put forward the proposal and it is also good that the environment committee has tightened it up a bit. i would ask the honourable members to support an amendment by the epp which would make things a little clearer. the commission proposal does contain reduction targets for some products, but it is not clear how high these should be. in the worst case, one member state might say one or two per cent. and i don't think that's the answer to the problem. that's why we need to put a minimum number in there. anything more than that is welcome. i would also ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to support two epp amendments which remove a product from the legal framework, namely balloons. i think we're doing ourselves a disservice if we start regulating this now. it could be a symbol of over-bureaucratization. according to science, we have eight million tons of plastic pollution in the ocean every year, five kilos of which comes from balloons from the european union. i don't think we're gonna be able to handle this emotionally. in the constituency of karl-heinz florenz - this is what the german media said today - a little boy has flown a balloon to send a picture to his deceased grandfather. do we really want to let him get away with this? do we want stickers or other labels? i don't think we're going to do that. we're addressing the problem, but we're not overdoing it. ( the president agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, as provided for in rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i would like to thank you very much, mrs auken. you've been in the business long enough to know that wasn't a question. at least, you could have asked for the sake of decency. mr liese is known to you. and by the way, you should know that in the case of the blue cards, where there is a strict speaking time of 30 seconds, i do not even knock first, but withdraw immediately. mr liese, although this was not a question, i would still like to give you the opportunity to respond.
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. the example of margrete auken shows that the commission's proposal is bad and that amendments nos 125 and 126 must be supported. the commission is seriously proposing that the launching of balloons and the whole balloon business should only be regulated by the eu when private individuals do it at children's birthdays and weddings. if it is done for commercial purposes by industry, by the advertising industry, it is allowed. this can't be happening.
i would like to thank mr lancini. if i may say so, it's very advisable to listen to the interpreters occasionally, when you see the interpreters struggling. i am not going to go into the details of the matter. it's no good writing all this down and scribbling a speech down. this may be of interest to the italians, but the rest of the continent loses a voice in this. it is a pity, mr president, even though i do not necessarily agree with everything you have said. i'm not giving you the floor. i have tried to teach some of my colleagues to work at a reasonable speaking pace. it would be nice if someone would follow it once in a while. mrs ries, it is my policy here, when i am in the chair, not to honour colleagues who have been deprived of the floor - as i did with mr lancini, who spoke not only too fast but also too long - by allowing a blue card.
i thank you very much, mr hansen. i happen to know that you recently moved in. i would like to congratulate you on your first speech in parliament.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. plastic waste comes largely from africa and asia. up to ten rivers are involved in the process, which is the one that is dumping the plastic waste into the oceans. i think the trash is coming from somewhere, too. this is also a matter of responsibility for the suppliers who produce this waste and who would then also have to be involved in preventing this waste accordingly. there could be manufacturers who would take ships through the most polluted seas and collect the plastics for recycling, turn the plastics into fuel and use it as fuel. technically, it is possible. in this respect, on the one hand, the product liability of the manufacturer, but then you also have to look at the extent to which you can recycle and degrade the plastic islands that are already there, which will soon make up a continent in the pacific.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i am pleased with the enthusiasm with which you have come forward. i would also like to mention the support that we have in council from all the member states. in fact, some countries have already started to reduce the use of single—use plastic products by restricting or banning certain items such as straws. the eu must act now to ensure these diverse actions do not fragment the single market. i would like to clarify the discussion on balloons. actually the proposal will not ban balloons. it will ban balloon sticks, which are among the most-littered items found on beaches. there are alternatives available on the market, such as wood or cardboard. for balloons, the actions foreseen include information campaigns, voluntary action and labelling. as mr florenz and mr affronte mentioned, we are working with the industry. we understand that businesses need a level playing field, with clarity and legal certainty and the possibility to develop economics of scale for new markets and alternative materials. the aim is to create market and innovation opportunities for alternative products that are multi-use, but also products made from other materials with less environmental impact. it will boost new business models and offer innovation potential. tackling marine litter does, therefore, create economic opportunities for europe. the commission is committed to leading by example in the creation of a more secular and sustainable plastics economy. i am convinced that together, we will leave a legacy that we can all be proud of. once again, i would like to thank ms ries and the shadow rapporteurs for their ambitious effort.
thank you very much, mrs ries. i'm not gonna lie. i'm not gonna lie. i'm not gonna lie. you had five minutes to speak, and i always give a little bit of that, even to reporters, and i finally interrupted you at five minutes and 25 seconds. it is also a matter of collegiality not to make colleagues who are still on the agenda later on wait too long. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 24 october 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by mr krzysztof hetman, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on employment and social policy in the euro area (2018/2034 (ini)) (a8-0329/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, after our hard labour in adopting and promoting the european pillar of social rights, today the time has come to discuss the social and employment aspect of the euro area. a well-designed social market economy is essential for europe, and in particular for a good functioning monetary union. i would therefore like to thank the rapporteur, mr hetman, for putting this aspect forward in the report we have discussed today. we share your analysis of recent socioeconomic developments. it is in line with our findings in the annual employment and social developments in europe review. the economic conditions are favourable. with 239 million people in employment, employment is at its highest level ever. unemployment in the euro area is now standing at 8.1%, the lowest since november 2008. we also share the opinion that there is still room for improvement. with the roadmap for deepening the emu from december 2017 the commission clearly set the objectives to address this. we stand for more jobs, growth, investment, social fairness and macroeconomic stability. we cannot have a robust economy without well-performing employment and social policies: both are two sides of the same coin, as we know. these policies are at the heart of the european pillar of social rights and their development should lead to a stronger european monetary union (emu). hence, improving economic resilience requires us to invest in people, invest in the skills of workers throughout their working life. that is why we have launched and are implementing the new skills agenda. we live in a fast-moving economy that requires us to adapt. we have to be skilled and re—skilled on a continuous basis. lifelong learning is not just a buzzword. it is a necessity. to ensure that workers get protection and the relevant information about their job: that is what our proposal on transparent and predictable working conditions for all workers calls upon. to give everyone the possibility to combine their professional and personal lives: our proposal on work-life balance calls for better working arrangements and compensated leave for parents and carers. as you know, these last two are legislative proposals still in negotiations between parliament and the council. we count on your support to reach an agreement soon. legislation, however, is not the only instrument to have for stronger employment and social policies in the european union and a more resilient emu. the implementation of the european pillar of social rights by member states is crucial to reaching this objective and the instrument to have to monitor and gauge progress is the european semester. when zooming in on the euro area, the pillar is already fully integrated into the dedicated recommendation adopted in november last year. it asks member states to focus on reforms that promote job creation, equal opportunities, accessibility to labour market, fair working conditions and support social protections. to conclude, let me stress that building a strong european economy and a resilient monetary union can only be sustainable through support and investment in our people. this requires well-functioning labour markets and social protection systems. in this light, we can only welcome and share the policy priorities indicated in your report.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 25 october 2018. written declarations (article 162 of the ccc)
the next item is the brief presentation of the report by renate weber, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the role of employee participation in job creation and the reintegration of the unemployed into the labour market (2018/2053 (ini)) (a8-0293/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you for this constructive discussion and for your valuable remarks. i take note of your recommendations and of your commitment to the development and promotion of employee financial participation schemes in the european union. research on the various forms of employee financial participation has pointed out the potential benefits, as well as the risks, associated with these schemes for both workers and companies. the studies carried out in previous years show how employee financial participation schemes can increase the competitiveness of companies. in particular, they can increase workers’ income and their identification with the companies they are working at. as such, these schemes may improve the job satisfaction of employees and contribute to improving the relationship between the employer and the employees. at the same time, employee financial participation schemes can increase the financial vulnerability of individual workers. it is therefore crucial to prevent unreasonable risks when designing and running these schemes. sufficient information should be provided to employees about the details of the schemes and any risks involved. importantly, employee financial participation schemes should be seen as complementing their fixed wage. employee financial participation may therefore be a subject of normal negotiations between social partners dealing with wage setting and working conditions without replacing them. therefore i welcome the report’s calls for engagement with social partners on this subject. progress on workers’ financial participation will not only depend on supportive legal framework conditions in the member states but also on the appetite of social partners to engage further in this area. the commission promotes participatory forms of corporate governance in different ways, for instance as part of the actions under the small business initiative and by means of the employment and social innovation programme. as regards employee financial participation in particular, the commission encourages member states to exchange best practices in order to spread the information about how to design efficient schemes. this concerns in particular the design of taxation regimes in member states, which your report rightly identifies as one of the principal challenges financial participation faces. financial participation, and more specifically employee share ownership, is also important to revive equity culture in europe. individuals having access to a securities account through their employers-employee share ownership scheme can familiarise themselves with capital markets and foster retail investments in the eu, once the core areas of capital markets union. that is why, in the 2017 mid-term review of the capital markets union action plan, the commission proposed to develop and promote best practices for employee share ownership schemes to provide an opportunity for individuals to get familiar with capital markets, giving a first insight into equity investment.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 23 october 2018.
the next item on the agenda is the one-minute statement on important political questions (rule 163).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. millions of people are currently being held in camps in china and systematically killed, slaughtered on order, because the chinese government is engaged in illegal and inhuman organ harvesting. and europe is looking the other way. the china organ harvest research centre's latest study calls for organ transplant on demand, or on demand. that's exactly what it is. in china, the average wait for a new organ is only two weeks, and if you're rich, even shorter. in germany, for example, it is six to eight years. and at whose expense? religious minorities such as christians, hundreds of thousands of falun gong practitioners, ethnic minorities such as tibetans and uighurs are also being slaughtered for europeans. thousands of them lose their lives every month on order mass murder. i call on this house, the commission, the council and the high representative mogherini to save lives. european values are called for! sanctions against china are urgently needed here.
that concludes this item.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the cambridge analytica scandal is the biggest manipulation of the democratic process so far in the digital age. this is not an isolated incident, cambridge analytica is the latest in a long series. a wave of massive data breaches has been rolling across europe – there’s been yahoo, ebay, uber and facebook, to name just a few. in the first half of 2018 alone, 2.2 billion people were affected by data breaches. a study from oxford university, in cooperation with lund university has shown that in sweden, in the swedish election, about 30% of online communication was fake news, and that a whole lot of all that fake news was imported from foreign countries. that means, today, we are talking about trust in the election. we are talking about our free ability to vote. we are talking about political preferences being manipulated. we are talking about the selection of political leadership. we are talking about freedom and democracy. according to the nato secretary-general, jens stoltenberg, 80% of disinformation comes from russia. meine sehr verehrten damen und herren, liebe kolleginnen und kollegen! das kann so nicht weitergehen! unsere demokratie ist eine demokratie der bürgerinnen und bürger und nicht derjenigen, die daten manipulieren oder daten kaufen. wenn sie zehn likes haben von jemandem, dann können sie ihn so gut beschreiben wie ein arbeitskollege. mit 70 likes wissen sie mehr als der mitbewohner, mit 150 likes mehr als das familienmitglied und mit 300 likes soviel wie der jeweilige ehepartner. das bedeutet, wir laufen gefahr, persönliche souveränität zu verlieren, wir laufen gefahr, mehr demokratische souveränität zu verlieren. das selbstbestimmungsrecht des volkes an der wiege jeder demokratischen bewegung ist in gefahr. und wir müssen sagen, dass die nächste europawahl darüber entscheidet, ob wir dieses gefecht für freiheit und demokratie gewinnen, oder ob wir es verlieren. wir haben mit der datenschutzgrundverordnung angefangen. das war ein richtiger schritt. aber wir müssen weitergehen – in der gesetzgebung, in der reform unserer nationalen wahlgesetze und im schutz der privatsphäre im elektronischen datensicherheitsbereich. ich danke der frau kommissarin, dass sie diese diskussion mit uns führt. es ist fünf minuten vor zwölf. und ich danke – ein ungewöhnlicher schritt – unseren exzellenten fotografinnen und fotografen, dass sie uns heute morgen begleiten. wenn ich sie bitten darf, einmal ein bild von der ratsbank zu machen heute morgen, wäre das auch ein sehr eindrückliches bild. wo ist eigentlich der österreichische ratsvorsitz in einer solchen diskussion? wenn sie hinter den kulissen eprivacy blockieren, wenn sie dafür sorgen, dass wir in der gesetzgebung nicht weiterkommen und heute morgen nicht einmal in diesem plenum sind? was ist das für eine grundhaltung des rates, wenn es um demokratie und freiheit geht? das kann ich nicht akzeptieren, und so können wir nicht arbeiten. ich glaube, herr präsident, wir sollten dem ratsvorsitz eine entsprechende mitteilung machen, wie ernst die debatte mittlerweile in europa ist.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i hope that mark zuckerberg is actually listening to the debate today so that he will understand that we are not letting him off the hook and that we are not happy with just some minor tweaks to the privacy settings of facebook. the facebook-cambridge analytica scandal is not simply a privacy scandal. it’s a political scandal. it is a threat to our democracies. facebook is illegally allowing some people to use the data for manipulating voters with psychological profiling, with fake news and with advertising profiling that makes it totally impossible to understand who is actually seeing what – the so-called ‘dark ads’. the consequences are dramatic. this can even lead to voter manipulation, and there is a lot of evidence that shows that this is exactly what happened. facebook is a very powerful platform with huge influence on our private lives, but also on our political life. if we want to safeguard our democracy, we need clear and strict rules for such online platforms. transparency is good, but it is just not enough. we cannot leave it to companies like facebook to decide who gets to see what political content just before the elections. we need to make sure that all voters have access to the same information, and we need to ban micro-targeting of political advertising. member states need to do this very soon if we want to make sure that the european elections in may are undistorted by dubious dark ads and by political manipulation.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i think we have done our job as a parliament so far. we've covered the cambridge analytica case, we've had hearings where facebook has, as you'd expect, sent pr people. yes, and we have also endured the autocratic behaviour of the ep president, mr tajani, whose so-called hearing has made us the laughing stock of the world. but we have a resolution, we have positions, and we have a reasonable statement from the commissioner. now we want to have consequences, because it's about facebook's business practices that allow it to use data on a large scale for so-called research purposes but actually exploit it for political purposes, abuse it. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the data protection rules are respected. all we hear from facebook is a verbal apology with a sort of angel look, with no guarantee that this can't happen again and that anything will change in the business model. let me be very clear about this: when data is manipulated for political advertising, elections are manipulated. if elections are rigged, we are thrown back into a pre-democratic era and elections become a farce, and then we can also - frankly - vote on socialist lists here. that's why we need to act. there must be regulations for electoral advertising, just as there are for offline advertising. we need transparency, we need disclosure of funding; what we don't need is targeted advertising. it must be banned at least during election times and otherwise be subject to strict regulations. aside from the fact that i'm massively disturbed by the market power of facebook now, i want to say one more thing: if we lose the race in the cambridge analytica case, then we can also bury the civil liberties of citizens. to the council: i believe that eprivacy should be adopted as soon as possible.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what does facebook do, and what do parliamentary polls bring? let's not kid ourselves. facebook has not taken parliament's investigation seriously. facebook has betrayed trust and broken eu law. it is not the result of sweet talk or voluntary commitment. we need strict rules, effective controls and, if necessary, sanctions. what does that mean? what does that mean? first, thanks to the general data protection regulation, we can fine breaches, such as cambridge analytica, up to 4% of global turnover. let us give our data protection authorities the means to carry out effective controls. secondly, we need more transparency, especially in political advertising. who really orders the embassy and who pays for it? thirdly, we need the eprivacy regulation to protect against targeting, for example. eprivacy should have been in place long ago along with the data protection regulation. the fact that eprivacy has been blocked by the member states for the past one and a half years is unacceptable! bottom line: we are not helplessly at the mercy of the practices of the big digital companies, but we must act decisively and collectively now to protect our citizens, to protect our democracy.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. my party is a conservative party, moderate, right of center. in my country, however, many journalists are predominantly left of center, many of them even very far left. some polls suggest that more than 40 percent of journalists vote green. objective reporting is not a given, especially in these times. so i'm very grateful that there's facebook. with facebook, we have a channel to our voters that the green left indoctrinating journalists cannot brick. we are watching very closely how the left majority in this house and in our own house is trying to take that access away from us. we see them putting pressure on facebook, trying to restrict and even censor conservative free speech. that 's the thing about the left: first they demand free speech, and once they're in power, all they care about is free speech. my dear colleagues, if you refuse to debate, you are proving one thing: you have no arguments. and those who, like you, have no arguments have already lost the debate. you'll see.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. is this data-driven, individual manipulation really what brexit and president trump have done for us? this is an extremely difficult question to answer, but it is the democratic question at the heart of this scandal. there is evidence of the political impact of facebook. a team from the university of warwick has looked at right-wing extremist attacks in germany in recent years and looked for possible causes. they looked at the number of foreigners living in the town, whether there was a relationship with unemployment, education and income levels and, and, and. the only variable they found that had a statistically significant correlation with the number of attacks was the extent of facebook use in the local population. facebook is a problem for our democracy, even without cambridge analytica. the resolution calls for a complete ban on targeted political advertising based on profiles containing personal data. the code of conduct that the commission has drawn up with the platform unfortunately only aims at transparency and self-regulation. but we need clear rules if we care about our democracy.
president of romania. mr president, distinguished members of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, it is an honour and a privilege to be here today in the european parliament. thank you for inviting me to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. the union has been marked over time, but especially in the last decade, by multiple challenges that have tested our cohesion and unity, from the financial and economic crisis, the migration crisis, terrorist attacks, to the rise of populist movements. it was a decade in which the union had to 'learn to adapt on the fly'. against this backdrop, the union was marked by the search for a common vision, defined by the need for a 'wise' balance between the specific realities of each member state and the desire to consolidate together a genuine union, one that looks to the future. the main positive finding of this period is that there is something that unites us: a european identity based on common principles, values and interests. and these common values must always be rediscovered, reassessed and revalorised, because the universality of values lies precisely in their regenerative character. we are entering a new chapter in the development and consolidation of the european project, in which we need to develop a new vision for the future of the union. from this perspective, i strongly advocate unity, cohesion, solidarity and a common european path in efforts to strengthen the european project. the central key to our actions must remain 'unity'. for romania, this principle is the very essence of the european project, which has given it the capacity to cope with the multiple challenges that the union has faced so far. the european union is an evolving project. the new realities, both at member state level and at global level, require the development and strengthening of the european project and, in no case, a re-examination of the fundamental principles on which the european project was built. a strong union must not be achieved at the expense of unity. we need an inclusive union that leaves no european state and no european citizen behind. in this respect, ideas such as a multi-speed europe or a union of concentric circles cannot be a solution, if we want to preserve the unity and indivisibility of the european union, which gives it value and credibility in its relationship with the rest of the world. president juncker said last year that europe must find its breath, breathe with both its lungs, the western and the eastern. i hope that our future together will also show us that europe has one heart. a heart that beats through us all, that unites us, from east to west and from north to south, that makes our citizens identify and define themselves naturally as europeans. we must embrace this shared ideal and, if necessary, adapt and recalibrate the instruments through which we can achieve it. i am confident that the new stage that the european union will enter from 2019 and that romania, as the rotating presidency of the council of the european union, will prepare together with the other member states and the european institutions, will be fruitful. i am confident that the sibiu summit of 9 may 2019 will be a landmark in the vision of the future of a stronger, more united, more cohesive and more democratic union. it is up to us - the member states, the european institutions and the european citizens - to make this goal a reality. ladies and gentlemen, the sibiu summit is an important moment for strengthening the foundation of this future. a common future, a democratic future, an optimistic future. the future of the european union can only be built with the direct and active participation and involvement of european citizens. i want sibiu to be a moment of awareness for european citizens. citizens want concrete measures and tangible results. they will be positive news about peace, security and prosperity. citizens must also see that we are working to protect and strengthen the union's major symbols: the euro, the internal market, the schengen area and freedom of movement. at the same time, our citizens need more cohesion. and cohesion is not just the ambition of the new member states, which have a lower level of economic convergence, but a necessity for the older members of the union. cohesion is unity, it is the expression of joint, concerted and coordinated action at union level. we need to return to the essence of the principle of cohesion, as reflected in the union's treaties - the centrifugal force of a community of vision and action, generating added value for the whole union. the european union is currently experiencing an economic recovery. this would not have been possible in the absence of a common vision and action in creating and strengthening an economic and monetary union. economic security is as important as border security, and the union's prosperity depends on our ability to deliver a strong economic and monetary union that is able to meet citizens' expectations but also to meet new challenges. to achieve this, we need comprehensive measures and decisions that guarantee the participation of all member states in the joint effort to achieve a stronger, more stable and more competitive euro area. for romania, joining the euro area as soon as possible, when all conditions are met, is a fundamental national objective. this year we are celebrating 25 years of the internal market. we have come a long way in terms of the freedoms and opportunities to travel, study and work within the european union for our citizens. we cannot imagine the european union without the single market and its four fundamental freedoms, the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital. we need a functioning, competitive and inclusive internal market. an internal market in which citizens experience its benefits in their daily lives. at the same time, europe is and must remain a leader internationally in many areas, notably in the technological and digital revolution. europe has the capacity and the strength to transform and to be a leader in connectivity. growth and stability, competitiveness, security and improving the quality of life for all europeans depend on how ambitious and determined europe is in digitisation and research and innovation respectively. at the same time, we need to ensure that our workforce is better adapted to the needs, requirements and developments of the internal market, to ensure that social progress and competitiveness go hand in hand. we must also be aware that the digital transformation of society cannot be achieved without a massive investment in education and the new skills needed. all citizens - from every region and every social group - must be involved in these developments. this must be our commitment, the commitment of those who lead europe, and it is in this diversity and inclusion that our continent's strength will lie in the global competition that lies ahead. we are also talking about a future in which the union will win back its own citizens by strengthening their sense of security here at home, within the union. the challenges posed by migration and security are of the utmost concern to all of us. we must act so that the european project rebuilds the security of citizens, and we must pay greater attention to combating terrorism and radicalisation. we need to act in order to become more proactive and increase the union's prevention capacity. responding to crises with contextual measures is not an effective way to do this, and in this regard we need sustainable solutions. the european union must remain an area of free movement, where all our citizens can move freely and work anywhere in the community, where young people can travel, study and thus fully benefit from one of the most visible and ambitious projects of european construction - the schengen area. for romania, accession to the schengen area is an important objective. this will significantly contribute to strengthening security for the entire area of free movement within the union. the corollary of a secure and strong union should be an enlarged union, because size gives strength - a notion that is very true and relevant in a highly competitive global context. and the union's enlargement policy has clearly demonstrated its value through successive waves of new membership, making an undeniable contribution to the continent's prosperity and security. enlargement of the union must not remain just a wish for future generations, but a real necessity, on which the candidate countries and potential candidates must base their efforts to pursue reforms and genuine and consistent embrace of european values and principles. ladies and gentlemen, we cannot be truly global if we cannot have a meaningful impact on our neighbourhood. keeping the southern and eastern neighbourhood countries firmly anchored in european values and maintaining their commitment to irreversible structural reforms also depends on our ability to deliver on our commitments to them. last but not least, we are also talking about a future in which the union will have a leading role on the international stage, a future in which the member states will support, on the basis of shared interests and mutual solidarity, the union's assertion as a global actor, with a decisive contribution to the promotion of the multilateral rules-based system. the implementation of the global strategy of the european union has already facilitated important developments both in the field of security and defence and in strengthening the links between the union's internal and external policies. it is our responsibility to ensure that in the years ahead the union has the tools to meet the new challenges. continuing initiatives in the area of common security and defence in conditions that ensure close cooperation and avoid parallels with nato, strengthening the resilience of the union and its partners, improving strategic communication are objectives that require increased attention and constant action. the consistency of the union's neighbourhood policy, the maintenance of a strong transatlantic partnership, the honouring of commitments - from continuing the enlargement policy in agreed parameters to strengthening the institutional relationship with the un and firmly upholding multilateralism and its virtues - are all areas where the union will be called upon to demonstrate that it can act effectively. distinguished members of the european parliament, 11 years ago, when romania joined the great european family, i felt particularly proud, as a romanian, to be living this important moment for my country. next year, when romania takes over the presidency of the council of the european union for the first time, the sibiu summit will be a turning point for our european family. it is our duty, it is our responsibility to shape the future of europe. along with all romanians, i feel proud as a romanian citizen and, equally, as a european citizen. because national pride or european pride are not eroded concepts or parallel realities. it's an assumed state that maintains and gives strength and content to that identity. because europe is part of our fiber. a europe that sums up our diversity. a europe built on the concept of unity in diversity. that's why europe is romania and romania is europe. 2018 is the year of the centenary of modern romania, which means for us not so much retrospective-historical analyses, but, above all, projections for the future. in these 100 years, we've learned some important lessons through experiences and through unhappy times. and the lesson of democracy is one of the most important. that is why we appreciate the values of the european family all the more. for this reason, romania is a country deeply attached to the european project. we have a vibrant and dynamic society, in constant evolution. we are a young democracy, which has the resources to perfect itself. romanians are actively connected to civic values. they have made it as clear as possible and have made their voices heard when it was necessary to defend the rule of law and democracy. (strong applause) romanians have the will and the strength to go further on the european path they have taken. it is the ambition to overcome any obstacle in order to remain firmly anchored in the great european family of which we are fundamentally a part. the younger generation believes in europe and engages in debates about our future in a positive and, above all, optimistic way. the enthusiasm of these outstanding young people also fuels our optimism about the future of europe. at the same time, their enthusiasm places a special responsibility on us. the advantage of this wave of enthusiasm coming from romania comes, first of all, from its strength to inspire and restrain the reflex of defending democracy, which is not a given, but implies a continuous responsibility to nurture, defend and promote it. romania is currently a dynamic and future-oriented country, which has quickly embraced and capitalized on new technological trends and digital services. one of the romanian companies has been a world leader in defence and cyber security solutions for several years. on the other hand, a company started by two young engineers became, this spring, the first romanian 'unicorn'. in just six months, the company tripled its value to a valuation of 3 billion euros, becoming one of the global leaders in software robots, automation and artificial intelligence. all over romania, from iasi to timisoara, from cluj to bucharest, from craiova to constanța, thousands of talented romanian engineers - women and men - are working to advance digital technologies, whether it's connected cars and smart transport systems, 5g telecommunications and the internet of things, blockchain research and innovation, space technologies or digital agriculture. the data economy is the future, and the romanian it&c and creative sectors have one of the highest shares of national gdp in the entire union. it should therefore come as no surprise that romania is willing and able to contribute to strengthening the union's overall role in this area. romania actively supports a union that invests in the safety of its citizens. european unity is essential when it comes to strengthening the union's internal security. for romania, as a member state managing one of the largest external borders of the european union, security is a priority area, in which we have already demonstrated that we are performing in all respects. we are able today to be a provider of security, at the highest standards, for the entire union, as we already do within nato. as a member state of the union, we will attach particular importance to the continuation of measures aimed at reducing the fragmentation of the european security area. we have a duty to protect all citizens, whether they are in the schengen states or not. this is only possible through the full application of state-of-the-art security tools at the external border of the union by all member states. the european union was founded on the deepest and most human desire for peace on the european continent. this internal peace - with all its ingredients: cooperation between member states, the rule of law, fundamental rights and freedoms, diversity, prosperity, social standards, labour - has become a highly valuable export commodity. it's time to take this model back to the inside and show our citizens what we've managed to create together. let's see how we protect peace together and how the need for peace today translates into the interests of the citizen. i always keep in mind the very timely words of jean monnet. i quote: "there is no future for the peoples of europe other than in the union". i urge you to keep unity as the watchword of the future. but unity will not come of itself. a unity that we must constantly protect and strengthen, while at the same time taking care of the diversity that is so characteristic of european culture. thank you. thank you. (the audience stands and applauds the speaker)
president of the commission. mr president of the republic, mr klaus, mr president of the european parliament, it is a great honour for mrs crețu, the romanian commissioner, and for me to have had the opportunity to listen to you, we who know and love you. it is a great moment for the european parliament because, if i am not mistaken, it is the first time that a romanian president-in-office has spoken to the representatives of the european people on the eve of his country's presidency - the first romanian presidency. dear romanian, i'm not fluent in romanian but i did understand. my imperfect romanian means "dear romanians", since they are watching and watching us. it is also a very emotional moment for me, as i have a long history with romania and its president-in-office. it is first and foremost a personal one, between the two of us, since we have known each other for centuries. the romanian president was mayor of sibiu hermannstadt, and there is an old history between hermannstadt and luxembourg. because, contrary to the claims of german historians, the people who settled transylvania were not saxons but luxembourgers. so we can talk to each other in approximate luxembourgish; finally, there is a union between us that makes ancient history live on in our own time and for decades and centuries ahead of us. there are too few romanians in this room. in december 1997, i chaired the european council in luxembourg under the luxembourg presidency, and it was then that we opened the doors wide to what were then called the 'candidate countries', including romania. and, under another luxembourg presidency, in april 2005, i was able to sign on behalf of the european union the treaty of accession of romania to the european union. these were unforgettable moments for me, because on that day the reconciliation between european history and geography was finally achieved and romania is therefore not a neutral country for me, but a country towards which i have my deepest feelings, the few qualities of heart i can have, and so yes, welcome to parliament and welcome back to europe, mr president. i am thinking of the romanian people, whom i love because, through their authorities, they have bestowed on me distinctions and honours which i have felt, whereas as a general rule, it is said that we are not sensitive to such decorations and honours. i am thinking of the romanian people who, from the beginning, have been able to integrate themselves into the sphere of european solidarity and complicity as if romania had been a founding member state. and so, yes, romania today and for a long time - even before its accession to the european union - has been and has become a provider of stability and not a consumer of stability in a region that is troubled, difficult, dramatically tested, through its history, to the point of blood, and so yes, without romania, the european union would not be complete. (applause) i would like to thank romania has been at the forefront of european integration from the very first day of its accession. i know that the president is not very fond of a europe of concentric circles, a europe of the vanguard and a europe that would be lagging behind. he doesn't like that at all, just like i don't like these concepts. but romania has proved in practice that it has nothing to fear from such a scenario, which, incidentally, is not mine, because it has always been at the forefront of the movement. i take as an example the agreement of romania on the establishment of a european public prosecutor's office. others, even the founding member states, do not have the courage to do this. romania was among the first to say yes to the introduction of a european patent, while others did not have this pioneering will. romania will celebrate its centenary on 1 december this year, the centenary of the great union, as our romanian friends call it. i wanted to tell the president that this is of course a roman holiday, but it is also a european holiday, because everything that concerns romania concerns europe. everything that is specific to romania is not alien to the european union and so on that day we will celebrate together a great moment in romanian history and a great moment in european history. as early as 2014, when i appeared before this parliament on 15 july - this is a date you did not choose but i did - i said that romania, under the mandate of the commission, which is mine, should be part of the schengen area. since july 2014 i have been pleading for romania to become part of the schengen area, and i would like to see this achieved before the mandate of this commission ends. (applause) i say that for general reasons, but i also say that for reasons specific to romania. however, i would like to draw attention to this and this is a remark which i am not making so much to the address of the president, but rather to the address of the romanian government and the romanian parliaments: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this directive by laying down detailed rules for the application of this directive. (applause) i would like to thank my heartfelt wish would be that the romanian people would have a national consensus on their entry to the presidency of the european union, and that the rule of law and the fight against corruption would be important. this is absolutely necessary. (applause) the commission's proposal is otherwise difficult to accept, and the schengen area is an important, understandable proposal. and then we have the problem of the budget. i have had more than three talks with my friend the president, insisting on the need to put in place the negotiating boxes after the austrian presidency, which will achieve it. this chapter on the financial perspective has to be concluded before the european elections because we would lose more than the momentum, we would lose several dimensions. it would be a major win for us if we were able to put the financial perspectives in place. i know that the romanian president, my dear friend klaus, is very committed to achieving this, together with his government. it will be no ordinary summit in sibiu (hermannstadt). it will be the moment when and where we have to deliver european perspectives, talking to those who called for the european elections in may 2019. i am very convinced that the president and the romanian government, the romanian parliament, with all their efforts, will be able to make sibiu a great moment in shaping europe's future. i had proposed last year that we should have this summit in hermannstadt/sibiu, because i think that if a country that joined the european union in 2007 with a big delay in the european history, would create the next seven years, then that would be a symbol in itself, which one should not underestimate. (beifall)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to welcome the president of romania. mr president, it is good to have you here within the format of the future of europe discussions in the european union. the first lesson, i would say, that we can learn when we listen to you, as a representative of this great country, is optimism: europe works, europe delivers. i only want to mention one figure out of the last 20 years: the economic development of romania, so the growth rate, increased by more than 490% on the gdp base, four times higher than moldova, for example. so to be part of this europe, to be part of the european union, works – on the question of the economy, but also on the question of developing towards a modern society in romania. congratulations on this. but, i must say that europe is not yet really unified. we cannot talk today about an already really united european union. romania is a member of the european union but the living conditions inside of our union differ a lot. the european people’s party (the ppe) does not want to accept this. we want to change this. we want to really have, in the future, a united europe where people have an equal standard of living. there is no europe of east and west. there is no europe of north and south. no europe of poor and rich. there are only europeans. and that is why, as the ppe, we want to continue our efforts under cohesion policy – you mentioned this – and we have to invest again in infrastructure, but i think new priorities are also needed. in research, for example. let’s build, for example, the next supercomputer of the european union in some of the countries in the central and eastern european member states, and not always in the traditional western countries, and let’s dream the dream that in the future an austrian or a french student goes to krakow or bucharest to study and not to oxford or munich anymore. that is probably one of the dreams we should really dream. another element is that romania is a member of the european union but also in terms of the conditions, not yet fully. that is why we welcome the engagement to join the euro, which is for us a crucial element for surviving as europeans in a globalised world, and we fully support the enlargement process on the schengen area. let’s be engaged. we also fully support what president jean-claude juncker said today, that we should get started; probably the first step is opening the airports already before the european elections in 2019. we have to move on these questions. i want to show respect also towards the citizens of romania, because i think it is clear that there is still a need of modernisation, of modernising the country in the direction of a country which fights strongly for fundamental principles and fights against corruption. i want to clarify that this is not only a romanian problem, but it is also a romanian problem, and people care about this, people care about the situation in the country. the government has to change the direction. we discussed this a few weeks ago here in strasbourg as well. for my political family, i have to underline that today’s government already crossed some of the red lines which are defined in our common understanding about values and i want to thank you, as president, because you gave the people in romania who demonstrated opposition, who demonstrated too their readiness to go forward for a modern romania, a voice. you defended modernisation. you are the president of a modern romania and that is good. herr präsident, sie werden in ein paar monaten die präsidentschaft übernehmen. da gibt es noch ein paar punkte, die uns wichtig sind. das erste ist, dass wir bis dahin versuchen müssen, antworten zu geben. in der migrationsfrage, in der fragestellung des budgets für die europäische union müssen wir liefern, und wir müssen auch über die erfolge, die wir haben, reden, den menschen auch vermitteln, dass europa in ihrem alltag wirkmächtig und positiv ist. das zweite, was aber auch wichtig ist, ist, dass in ihrer ratspräsidentschaft die europawahlen stattfinden werden. wir alle vertreten ein demokratisches europa. wir sind die kammer der bürger der europäischen union. für ein demokratisches europa braucht man kandidaten und man braucht ein programm, man braucht inhalte, man braucht ideen. das werden wir praktizieren als abgeordnete, als parteien auf diesem kontinent in den nächsten jahren. 2014, bei der letzten wahl, hatten wir beispielsweise zum ersten mal spitzenkandidaten nominiert, wie jean-claude juncker, auch guy verhofstadt hat kandidiert, ska keller hat kandidiert, wir hatten verschiedene kandidaten. und wir wollen beim nächsten mal noch mehr die programmvielfalt deutlich machen – dass ich für ceta gestimmt habe und ska keller gegen ceta gestimmt hat beispielsweise –, die unterschiede deutlich machen. worum ich sie bitte, ist, dass sie im anschluss ihren beitrag dazu leisten, dass dieses demokratische europa, die willensbildung der bürger europas dann auch nach den europawahlen ausdruck findet in einem gemeinsamen programm für die zukunft dieses kontinents und in den entscheidungen, die dann zu fällen sind. ich habe mit dem verweis auf den optimismus begonnen, den sie praktizieren, und ich möchte damit auch schließen. vor 28 jahren, am beginn der neunziger, hat ein junger mann in sibiu vor der entscheidung gestanden, sein land entweder zu verlassen und in der ferne seine zukunft zu suchen, oder dazubleiben und aufzubauen. er hat sich für das letztere entschieden, fürs anpacken. er hat zunächst seine stadt in die zukunft geführt, die arbeitslosigkeit reduziert und den menschen einen guten platz zum leben geschaffen. heute steht der gleiche mann vor uns, nämlich der heutige präsident rumäniens, klaus iohannis. und deswegen ist die botschaft, die sie mitbringen, optimismus. mit viel arbeit, mit seriosität, mit willen und ideen kann man sein land und europa in eine gute zukunft führen. danke für diese botschaft! (beifall)
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to thank president juncker very much for joining this debate on the future of europe. with the european elections getting close, it is even more important to discuss how that future should look – our common future. that is the question that we need to ask ourselves, but not just those of us in this room. every citizen of europe needs to ask themselves what kind of europe they want to live in. do we want a europe where we fight for our common values, where we defend democracy, civil liberties and freedom, or do we let europe go down a slippery slope of nationalism and governments that hollow out the key foundations of our union and of democracy? unfortunately, some governments seem to be going exactly in that way. how the situation looks in a member state also defines what the european union as such, and as a whole, looks like. right now, when our common values are being trampled upon in many member states, every voice that defends civil liberties and every voice that defends freedom and the rule of law counts, regardless of political affiliation. therefore, president juncker, we count on you! the romanian people count on you! the romanian people showed in a referendum two weeks ago that they do not want an authoritarian state that discriminates and that tries to play people off against one another. they also protested in their thousands against corruption. they protested against a government that de facto legalises corruption and does not even shy away from weakening a judiciary system to make it easier for some politicians to put public money – the money of all romanians - into their own pockets. but, instead of listening, the romanian government sent tear gas against those people protesting. and now the government even wants to replace a strong anti-corruption chief prosecutor with somebody who has, let us say, not such a strong record of working against corruption. this is a slap in the face for romanian citizens. mr president, it now depends on you to stop that. mr president, we need you as a strong voice for democracy and the rule of law in romania and throughout the european union. two weeks ago, the constitutional court of romania declared over 60 articles of the new criminal procedure code unconstitutional. on friday, the venice commission warned that the reform would jeopardise the fight against corruption and also against organised crime. mr president, why don’t you take the lead and call on all political parties to put the recommendations of the venice commission into practice? romania needs to start a broad reassessment of the law reform with all stakeholders involved. since romania will take over the presidency in a couple of months, it would be even more important to have a role model at the head of the presidency for good governance to show how it can be done. let us be courageous together and stand up for democracy and the rule of law, and let us not be intimidated by all of those who flagrantly undermine that very rule of law and our freedom.
mr president, president iohannis, you have said that all citizens should feel heard and welcome in the european union and that they should enjoy freedom of movement, and i am sure that this also means that minorities should feel heard and at home inside the european union. you also said that we should not have a europe of several paces and that there should not be too big a difference between member states. romania is one of the few countries in the european union where we still don’t have any legislation on civil partnership or same-sex legislation. a couple of weeks ago there was even a referendum which sometimes consisted of homophobic rhetoric. my question now to you is: what can you do in order to push romania to adopt legislation in this field, and what will the romanian presidency do in order to make sure that lgbtis will also feel at home and heard inside the european union?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i have a very clear question for you. i've missed your comments on what happened on your soil when american spy planes landed in bucharest, romania. there were tortures, there were interrogations, there were murders and abductions. they are talking about a continuation of the transatlantic alliance. is that what you mean by the transatlantic alliance, that you continue to approve of an alien power like the united states of america operating torture camps and torture prisons on european soil? i would also like to ask you how you intend to deal with the infringement proceedings already initiated against poland and hungary. and a similar debate is being held against romania. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we are not talking about the diversity of a multicultural, multiracial society, but we are promoting the struggle, the competition of peoples among themselves and we do not want to bring millions of foreigners to europe. what do you think?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european union is a great example of this. i've been to romania five times since the fall of 2014 to talk to animal rights activists and politicians, including then-prime minister cioloş, about the brutal mass killings of stray dogs and the reasons behind them. in 2013, the public was manipulated by politicians and the media to justify the massacre of the dogs, which became a lucrative business that corrupt officials and politicians continue to profit from today. mr president, before your election you spoke out against the mass killings and called them barbaric. that's why many romanians have chosen you. but still, stray dogs are being caught and brutally killed every day. finally, please use your political influence to promote humane and modern population management, which takes into account the fact that animals are sentient beings, as stated in article 13 of the treaty of lisbon! what has happened and is happening in romania with the stray dogs, despite worldwide protests, is a disgrace and has nothing to do with our civilized values in europe. mr president, there is simply no place in our europe for the mass killing of stray dogs. so if romania has taken over the presidency of the council, it can show whether it cares about all values and animal welfare is definitely a european value.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i thank you very much, mr president. we are very concerned about the situation of the roma in romania: exclusion, segregation, exploitation. equal participation is not possible for a large proportion of your citizens with a roma background, and there are also massive violations of human rights, including the rights of children. the situation of these people is partly dehumanized. what do you want to do about it, and what do you want to do about inclusion? i'm going to tinca, a small town in your country. there are big incidents with these human rights violations. i'd like to inform you about it.
president of romania. mr president, i thank all the speakers for their positions. there were many, i wish there were more. i thank those who have found words of appreciation for romania, and i thank those who have found words of constructive criticism, because i cannot imagine any other kind of criticism being made in the european parliament. 'unity in diversity' was the concept with which i concluded my first presentation, and the positions taken in this room show that this is indeed where we need to work. very different approaches, but obviously each with its own weight and parliamentary representativeness. let me propose a way that i can interact with you, those who have spoken, and perhaps others who have not yet done so. given the diversity of the topics - and i assure you that they are all important, i am interested in them and we have firm positions on all of them - i cannot go into all the details and all the answers. together with my colleagues, we will ensure that each speaker receives a written reply, and i think that will greatly improve the dialogue between us. again, thank you for taking a stand. in conclusion, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me return to a few key words, because today we are talking about how we will shape the future of the european union - unity and cohesion, closeness to the citizens, internal security of the european union, security of the european union's borders, weight in the european union's international policy, approaches that respect and nurture diversity but allow for united action abroad - these are the issues that concern us all, the issues that concern europeans. i think it is our duty to find not only answers, but to find policies and put into practice what we think is important for our citizens, but also for the european union. thank you all. (applause) thank you very much.
in writing. i believe it is important that we understand europe as a whole again and not divide it into small groups. we are all europe. i am glad that president iohannis has highlighted this point. we are not western or eastern europe, visegrad or club med countries, but one europe. and it is also our duty as europe to point out and to act against abuses in our member states. romania has shown a great deal of reformism and achieved a great deal since joining the eu. however, there are still many problems to be overcome. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations. i wish mr iohannis much strength and courage to fight these problems.
i am speaking on behalf of the rapporteur. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the rapporteur, mrs vălean, cannot be present and has asked me to ask on her behalf that we refer the report back to committee so that we can negotiate with the council. now some lawyers say i should do that on behalf of the group. i am happy to do so on behalf of the group. the main thing is that we can negotiate with the council.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's work programme contains comments on the deepening of monetary union. it calls for us to finally have a fully functioning monetary fund and complete the banking union so that the risk can be shared. these are clearly the wrong measures. instead of more transfers, we need more ownership. instead of a corset that doesn't fit everyone, we need more freedom for everyone. the euro has failed in its present form. it cannot continue in this way, with the same measures for all. instead, we should include in the work programme measures to ensure that the economy of the countries leaving the euro area and those remaining in the euro area is as little damaged as possible. now is the time to prepare for this so that we don't have chaos, because otherwise we will see markets collapse if we do nothing and continue to allow debt spirals. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr lamberts, thank you for your question. in fact, we have a model that works. this works because in germany it is accepted that there is a balance between the poorer and the richer regions. and i have absolutely no objection to the idea of introducing such a system of compensation in the eu. but you have to ask the people if they want that. you should not just look at germany, you should ask all citizens in the eu if they are prepared to work longer, or - in other words - that some work longer and others retire earlier and that is financed by financial transfers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i would like to give countries back the freedom to become competitive again by devaluing their currency. we should not think in terms of transfers, but in terms of genuine solidarity and fairness.
i have to say, madam president, i welcome the european commission's plans for the coming year. we are at the end of the parliamentary term and we must of course try to close open dossiers as best we can. the rapid ratification of the eu-japan economic partnership agreement is of great economic and symbolic importance. it is currently the most important trade agreement in european history. but it also has a symbolic meaning on a global scale. the eu stands for sustainable free trade and against short-term protectionism. we must of course try to promote the international trading system, and we must do so on the basis of rules. this means that we must push forward the reform of the wto - we are working on it here in parliament - and that we should try to find a common solution with the usa. if it turns out that the united states, as it has signed off on, wants to work with us again on a joint trade agreement, then i very much hope that the commission will also take this opportunity. but what i really hope is that in the coming months the commission will come up with a communication strategy. we must all communicate with each other in such a way that our citizens know that we want a europe that protects, not a europe that is closed.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission's report on the political activities of the commission in office is a disastrous one. the commission has completely displaced the problems caused by illegal migration for years until 2014 and has completely ignored the seriousness of the situation created since 2015. so far, you have been concerned with placebo solutions and forced relocation of migrants rather than finally protecting the external borders, as should have been done long ago. the euro and finance are also facing a gigantic pile of debris. matteo salvini is teaching you today that italy is still a sovereign state. as such, it decides on its own fiscal, economic and budgetary policies, and the commission cannot do anything about it. the eu's much-vaunted binding framework is once again proving to be a completely toothless tiger. we are therefore working for a europe of the fatherlands, in which each state makes its own decisions and then, of course, bears the consequences of its political decisions. this is the only way europe can work.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'll take a little phrase from the trade section. the work programme states that you want to overcome the deadlock in the implementation of dual-use export controls. yeah, we have to. we adopted a joint declaration between the council, the commission and the parliament in 2014, in which we called for a stronger control of goods that can be used both for human rights violations and for civilian purposes. 2014 that's four years ago! and we have a proposition. we have taken a decision in this parliament - by over 500 votes, a clear signal - and we are still unable to negotiate, the council is still blocked. can it be that economic interests are overriding the protection of human rights? no, i think we need to go ahead here. we cannot allow european software to be used to control and track opposition figures in other countries. we need a strict export regime here.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the social democrats are convinced that people want an eu that takes care of their worries and not an eu that increases their worries. i am clear that the council of the european union is the main obstacle to many of the things we all want to see happen in the european union. but i would like to talk today about the initiatives of the commission, especially in the social dimension. we are pleased with the success of the posting of workers directive. we have thus made a major contribution to alleviating a pressing social problem within the european union. but we are concerned about the corporate law package. mr timmermans, we can see this in every corner of germany. it is a successful model. but this package of legislation could damage this successful model. what we also urgently need are initiatives to bring living conditions and social security systems closer together in the member states of the european union. the mff may not be doing enough, because here the cohesion benefits are decreasing. what we want is a directive on social adjustment upwards.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, so many subjects were raised by the members that i can’t go into all of them, and they will come back in the committee meetings and in the plenary during the course of the rest of our mandate. but there are a few remarks i would like to make. first of all, there’s no reason to be so gloomy! look at the eurobarometer. our citizens, in a vast majority, believe the european union is their home and their collective home, and a vast majority believe in the european project. they don’t agree, very often, with proposals we make. they don’t necessarily like the european commission, or even the european parliament, but they do understand that they share a destiny with other europeans. sometimes that feels uncomfortable because we don’t know whether we are really fully in control of that destiny. but the very fact, the very basis, that europeans understand that it is better to solve our differences around a conference table, even if that takes time and it is tedious, rather than to go back to europe’s history of solving differences on the battlefield, is something that is shared by a vast majority of our citizens – even in countries where political forces do their best to rekindle age-old controversies based on nationalism, even in those countries the majority of the population is in favour of the european union. so please, take some courage from that. that is a good starting position to be in. and then yes, of course we need to take steps on issues that have been left alone too long. but if we look, for instance, at the migration issue, has that not been solved because european institutions have failed to act or has that not been solved because member states, very often based on nationalism, did not come together and did not want to compromise? answer that question! we have nothing to be ashamed of, neither the commission nor the european parliament, but put the onus where it belongs. do we really think that going back to nation states on their own is going to solve the problem of climate change, is going to find solutions for migration issues, is going to give us the force to negotiate fair trade agreements with big partners in the world like the united states and china? the leader of mr flynn, or the de facto leader of mr flynn, does not know whom he admires more – putin or trump. are they going to help us decide the fate of europe, putin and trump, or should we be masters of our own fate in europe? i believe we should be masters of our own fate. somebody ridiculed the plastics strategy. i would say, go and watch what science comes up with now! our oceans are suffocating in plastic. every human being has microplastics in his/her body. every single bought bottle of water has microplastics in it. is it not urgent? is this not something that more than 80% of europeans want us to act upon? is it not a good choice to interdict single plastic use, stuff that is made in a few seconds and stays in our environment for hundreds of years, and for which we have perfectly feasible alternatives that do not pollute our natural environment? why ridicule that? it is a great change for our society. it is something our citizens want. this is something we need to do and we can do it now. on the banking union – let’s complete the banking union. in my political life, one of the most horrible moments i can remember is in 2008 when i was in national government, when we were told we need to save the banks because they are too big to fail. we could not hold the bankers accountable. we needed to pour billions of taxpayers’ money into saving the banks. do we still want that? no! we never want that to happen again. if that is not to happen again, if banks are to be held accountable themselves for their mistakes, we need a banking union and only the european union can provide a banking union. there is not a ‘ concert de nations’ that can provide for that. the same goes for taxation. how fair is it that huge corporations can negotiate with individual member states so that at the end of the day, they don’t pay tax? should the rule not be that you pay tax where you make profits? the only way we can achieve that, especially against the big tech corporations, is if we are united on this, as europeans, and not divided. they will play off one member state against the other. please make speed with the changes in company law, because it will help us on the one hand to especially allow small and medium-sized enterprises to act on a european scale, and at the same time we will protect the rights of workers in this so that you cannot use letterbox companies to avoid taking your responsibility towards your workers and towards your other social responsibilities. let’s act on that! of course, this is not always the big picture, but these are concrete measures that make the lives of european citizens better day by day. with all the differences we have across the board here in parliament, compromise is never a bad thing. why did we bad-mouth compromise at some point? in a democracy, compromise is a thing of beauty because it brings together a majority to make positive change in this society. this is the force. this is where the force of the european parliament lies and yes, the sdgs can be a good framework for that. we can certainly mould europe along this global picture. this is, i think, something we can do in the future, but for the year to come, let’s try and finish a number of the subjects that are still on the table – on fiscal policy, on completing the economic and monetary union, which is urgent. again, it is not complete. it needs to be completed. but again, solidarity and responsibility go hand in hand. of course, you can ask solidarity of other europeans, but then you also have the responsibility to act within the rules in the economic and monetary union. otherwise, other europeans will not want to share their destiny with you. i think on all these subjects, we have so much to do. we have little time, but there is no need to be complacent. there is no need to be fatalistic. we can do this together. with all the political differences we have, the commission is ready to work with you and the council to get this done – also dual use, let me insist on that. we salute parliament’s position on that. hey, council, now get going! make sure we can get this done soon.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you very much for inviting the presidency to participate in this debate. recent emerging media reports have referred to ongoing investigations in relation to the so-called cum-ex trades that reportedly involve tens of billions of euros. at this stage it is our understanding that systematic investigations have been initiated and searches are being conducted at national levels in several member states on suspicion of tax evasion. as the honourable members are aware, the fight against tax avoidance and aggressive tax planning both at global and eu levels is a priority for the council and one of the key focuses of its work. the presidency therefore continues to follow closely all relevant information and developments. so far, we have no indications that there would be any direct link to, or breach of, current eu legislation or rules. no discussion on this issue has, therefore, taken place in the council and its preparatory bodies at this stage. i will listen attentively to your debate and as i said, we will follow the developments closely.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for organising this debate so quickly. once again, thanks to the work of journalists - i want to applaud them - a new tax scandal is revealed, which shows that the richest and most powerful taxpayers do not lack imagination and make a mockery of solidarity, ethics and sometimes legality to reduce their taxes. the patterns of fraud that have been revealed are shocking and even unbearable. they are shocking because they involve some banks that misused public coffers at the height of the crisis, when considerable sums of public money had just been injected to save the banking sector. this is unacceptable, because it means less revenue for the member states and therefore also less investment and more taxes for companies and citizens who play by the rules, so it is not acceptable, of course. what does this new scandal tell us? in the past, the rules on the exchange of information could and should have been more effective, but above all more respected. it should be recalled that at the time of the facts, these exchanges were 'spontaneous', i.e. left to the discretion of the states, and these rules did not - as is clear - prevent fraudulent behaviour. they have not prevented these flows from moving from one member state to another. since 2014, this commission - and i am proud to have contributed to it as commissioner for taxation - has embarked on what i have called the 'transparency revolution', following a very simple principle of strengthening and even systematising cooperation and information exchange between member states. information exchange is really the key concept that has changed us, i think, in the epoch. the administrative cooperation directive has been considerably extended. it now includes mandatory automatic exchange of information in many cases. it is true that information held by some member states is essential for others, for example on financial accounts, on the end of banking secrecy, on tax rulings by member states, on country-by-country information, such as the famous tax ruling decisions, or on cbcr (country-by-country reporting), which i still believe should be public, and finally on the sharing of information between national tax authorities and anti-money laundering authorities. more recently, this directive has been supplemented by new reporting provisions for tax intermediaries; you voted for it and i thank you for it. it is scheduled to enter into force next year. it will change everything because it will oblige these intermediaries - bankers, lawyers, legal or tax advisers - to report the abusive or aggressive tax arrangements they sell to their clients. i call on the member states to use the tools at their disposal now to cooperate, to exchange information more quickly. speed is precisely the key to preventing this kind of aggressive pattern from spreading between member states. the revelations of the past week demonstrate, once again, that these tax justice issues are of the highest interest to the general public. they are now even at the top of our opinions and that is why i call on parliament and the council to swiftly adopt our proposals on public country-by-country reporting and on the protection of whistleblowers. as you know, in addition to strengthening cooperation with tax administrations, the commission has systematically proposed an ambitious collective approach to the member states. parliament and the commission have always been on the same page in defining a common corporate tax base. progress on this issue is real and must be made, because a harmonised tax base would significantly reduce the possibilities of tax evasion by better taking into account digital activities. and i think that a european response is the only way to get the rest of the international community to seriously reform the legal framework, by adopting a common list of tax havens, which has given us enough weight to get, i believe, a whole series of reforms that allow progress in the fight against harmful tax regimes around the world. we have also proposed to the member states that certain aspects of double taxation treaties be negotiated at european level in the framework of the fatca (foreign account tax compliance act) agreements with the united states. some member states were not 'ready' for such a coordinated approach and perhaps it is time - not a testament, but a proposal - to revive this idea. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, not everything is settled yet, not everything is in place yet, but precisely in relation to what is raised by this scandal, it appears that significant progress has been made, even if i cannot say that everything we have decided together is likely to make such a scandal impossible. but i can say with great confidence that it would be much, much, much more difficult if the tax administrations complied with the legal provisions to which they are now bound. when all these laws are implemented, i think it will be much more difficult to do this kind of tax optimisation and tax evasion in europe and you can count on my determination and the commission's determination to make sure of that. i also believe, as always, that we must look to the member states because it is up to them to enforce these provisions more than those which were about the exchange of spontaneous information at the time. now the spontaneous is automatic and therefore obligatory. i really count on the member states to do the least that they can to comply with their obligations.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the cum-ex scam business follows a pattern that must be very familiar to us. a tax loophole is identified, which is problematic and the easier to exploit the worse the communication between tax authorities. that is why we need an automatic exchange of information for capital gains tax and withholding tax, as we already have - as the commissioner has indicated - for corporation tax. i had already proposed to the commission in the spring of this year that the existing mechanism be extended to capital gains tax and withholding tax respectively. in the reply i received from you, commissioner, in a letter dated 5 october this year - it is not very long ago - you wrote to me: however, i can state that the analysis carried out does not justify an extension of the scope of the tax systems for the automatic exchange of information. it's been less than three weeks since you wrote me that. i don't know what you've been analyzing, but the cum-ex scandal definitely warrants an expansion of the automatic exchange of information. you said it yourself, so please do it too! what i'm finding here is not just that problems are not recognized. it's worse when you refuse to work with the problem. but that's exactly what you wrote to me. in this way, the commission repeats the mistakes which have allowed multinational companies to play off the corporate tax systems of the member states against each other for many years. the commission's learning curve is very, very flat.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this scandal is unbearable from two angles. it is intolerable because it involves very, very high financial losses - at least 55 billion euros for european taxpayers, probably much more, some of it fraud, some of it tax avoidance - and it is also intolerable because the actors who are putting at risk the integrity of european financial markets are the same ones who have been saved with billions of dollars, who have publicly declared time and again that they have now understood and are acting on the basis of ethics. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the citizens will not be watching this for long. the european parliament has already said that it is not in a position to give its opinion on the matter, and that it is not in a position to give its opinion on the matter. i therefore ask the commissioner and the council to take all the measures we have at our disposal. the european financial supervisors can be called upon by us, as well as by you, commissioner, to open a special european investigation under article 22 of the regulation on supervisory authorities. on the basis of this study, it is necessary to determine: which institutions were involved, with what sums did they work, on the basis of which licenses? there must be consequences. i would also like to express my support for mr ferber's call for the automatic exchange of information to be extended to capital gains tax. mr moscovici, i hope you will do both of those things. i am not going to go into the details of the proposals. it would be good, moreover, if we received a correspondingly different response than we have received so far, namely that the european commission said in its letter to the consortium of journalists that it was not responsible, that this was a national task. no, this is a european task, commissioner.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the european citizens are tired of the fact that the states are robbed of their tax revenues by fraudulent bankers. but european citizens are also tired of the seemingly powerlessness of politics. this time, therefore, it is 55 billion euros stolen from the public treasury by fraudulent transactions in 11 european countries. the 55 billion are not in kindergartens, schools, research and development, but also in social security systems. that's what i call stealing from society. another scandal in the recent cum-ex scandal is that the german federal government knew about these events since 2002, but reportedly informed its partners only in 2015. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let's put an end to this criminal and immoral business once and for all! let's stop tax-driven stock trades and protect the state budget from the gangsters in pinstripes! that is what the european citizens expect of us.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the saudi government's explanations for the killing of journalist khashoggi are completely inadequate. i therefore welcome the fact that you, mrs mogherini, have called for a full and transparent investigation. but it cannot be left to appeals alone. the killing of khashoggi is a result of the saudi ruling house's zero-tolerance policy towards its critics. sakharov prize laureate raif badawi and many other nonviolent political prisoners have been in prison for years for critical speech. they must be released immediately. we cannot go back to the agenda after khashoggi's violent death. the european parliament has already called for a ban on arms exports on several occasions. we must prevent european weapons from being used in war crimes in yemen. all eu member states must finally take action and not only announce an arms embargo against saudi arabia but also enforce it.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the arrogance, ruthless brutality and cynical contempt with which the saudi monarchy orchestrated the murder of khashoggi has awakened the world public. this parliament called for an arms embargo on saudi arabia as early as february 2016. we've done this a few times since. for as extraordinary as this one murder stands out, so little does it stand alone. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we must act, madam high representative, vice-president mogherini! now europe must show that it is drawing a line by imposing an arms embargo.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. dear high representative, thank you very much for your powerful speech on freedom of the press and freedom of journalists. we support that. parliament has already asked you twice to enter into a dialogue with the member states on arms exports. the council has already decided that the council should be consulted on the matter. it is important that we keep this theme alive. even the german government admits that if one country does not supply, the other countries must not supply either. the european union has a long history of supporting the peace process. i hope that we can do that and that you will support us in calling for us to give saudi arabia the european answer here, that it should no longer supply arms to that country, so that we can send a clear signal. this is also a basic line for the european parliament, and we are also pursuing this through the arms export control reports. i'd be very happy if you'd take this message out of the house.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i would like to thank parliament for keeping a strong focus on the security situation around the black sea after the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula. we do not and we will not recognise the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula to the russian federation. it is first and foremost a matter of principles, values – principles and values that all european nations agreed in helsinki in 1975. we all agreed to the basic principle that our frontiers cannot be changed by military force. and this is a principle, it is a value, on which our common living together is based, but it is also a fundamental interest of all europeans, because this is the foundation of peace and security on our european continent. when this principle is violated, as it has been, we are all less secure in our continent and the events in the sea of azov are a demonstration of this. when the basic rules of peaceful coexistence are disregarded, instability and tensions are bound to rise. the construction of the kerch bridge between the crimean peninsula and the russian federation took place without ukraine’s consent and it constitutes another violation of ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. on top of that, the bridge hinders the passage of vessels to ukrainian ports, to the azov sea. six months ago, russia started to apply a new inspection regime for cargo vessels coming from ukrainian ports in the azov sea or heading towards them. these inspections lead to long delays, which have increased dramatically over the past months. this has direct consequences on shipping costs, not only for ukrainian exporters but also for vessels flying a european union member state flag. so far, more than 200 vessels, under both ukrainian and international flags, have been affected by these controls by russia, which in some cases lasted several days. even more worrying, tougher controls on naval traffic in the strait have come in parallel with the militarisation of the azov sea. russia has recently started deploying military vessels to the area in significant numbers and ukraine has partially responded with an increased military presence. let me recall that the azov sea used to be almost fully demilitarised and that ukraine and russia have signed a cooperation agreement on the use of the sea of azov and the kerch strait. this agreement implies that disputes between the parties are to be resolved through consultations and negotiations. we appreciate that ukraine is seeking justice in international courts, such as the ongoing case under the un convention on the law of the sea. when international law is violated, when ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity are violated, the european union stands by the people of ukraine. we immediately condemned the construction of the kerch bridge without ukraine’s consent, in july. the council added six entities involved in the construction of the bridge to the list of those subject to restrictive measures over actions that undermine the sovereignty and territorial integrity of ukraine. a militarisation of the azov sea is in no one’s interest and it can only destabilise the delicate security situation in the wider black sea region. and let me remind us all that the black sea is a european sea and we do not want to witness yet another military build-up in our immediate region. so we will continue to push for the respect of international law and conventions, and to support ukraine in these challenging circumstances. i am sure i can count on the support of this parliament in this work we are doing.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the development in the sea of azov must be seen in the context of what has happened since the russian invasion and the beginning of the occupation of crimea. russia has developed crimea into a major military base, and this development - the militarization of crimea - is far from over. that is why we must take very seriously what many commentators call russia's gunboat policy in the sea of azov. i expressly agree with mr boştinaru's reference to our problems, our common problems on the eastern flank. i would like to propose six points for consideration: in my opinion, the osce's mandate should be extended to cover the monitoring of the situation in the azov sea. in my opinion, the european union must strongly and clearly support ukraine's legal position in all instances - at the un, the osce and also before international courts. the european union must ensure that there is no technical and military cooperation with the russian federation, which may also strengthen the operational capability of the russian navy. i think it is essential that the eu should look at how it can strengthen the ports of mariupol and berdyaansk with projects. and the eu and nato must clarify whether they can prevent further escalation by providing escorts and a presence in the region. new sanctions should be discussed in any case.
i have to say, madam president, i find that once again, the moscow faction is blaming the victim for his situation. i don't think we can let this go. i believe that the treaty of friendship, which was concluded at the time, has already been rendered obsolete by the military aggression of russia. we should examine whether the 2003 agreement declaring the sea of azov as a kind of inland sea between ukraine and russia might weaken ukraine's legal position and whether unclos, i.e. international regulations, are not better for ukraine's legal position. we must insist that our merchant ships are not checked more than necessary and that waiting times are not allowed, because time is money. we have our ships lying there on reed waiting to be inspected, to support and urge russia to end the current practice.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can only join most of the speakers in this house. i also believe that we must take a very clear stance on what is happening in the sea of azov. it is not a bilateral problem, but an international one. it is about our solidarity with the people of ukraine. it is in our best interests that eu-flagged vessels are not overcharged there. it is therefore entirely appropriate that we ask the high representative to do all she can to improve the situation there. don't panic, rebecca harms, i'd sign the first four of the six items right now. i am glad that we did not resort to sanctions again. but the russian side needs to know we mean business. we'd like to talk, but the law is the law.
madam president, i would like to underline what has been said this evening. venezuela is facing an unprecedented political, social, economic and humanitarian crisis. the devastating political actions of president maduro have resulted in an increasing number of deaths, refugees and arbitrarily arrested people. three aspects should guide our actions with venezuela, in my opinion. the first one is: the eu should continue to urge president maduro to stop any human rights violations and to allow unhindered humanitarian aid to prevent the crisis from further deteriorating. secondly, i fully support the foreign affairs council’s calls for new presidential elections. if these elections do not take place in the near future, we must act swiftly and impose additional targeted, restrictive measures, and thirdly, the european union must enhance its political outreach with the democratic opposition and the civil society. it is high time for friendly, meaningful and result-oriented negotiations towards peaceful solutions but most important also, in my opinion, is that the venezuelan people deserve an end to this communist nightmare.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. why a rule of law mechanism? article 2 of the treaty sets out the values on which our union is founded: respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law, respect for human rights. and by signing it, all the member states have committed themselves to upholding and respecting it. but when governments disregard the separation of powers, criminalize the homeless, or discredit media outlets critical of the government, it puts individuals and the union at risk. how can we expect to have faith in democracy and the state when governments interpret treaties, laws and court decisions at will or even ignore them? the rule of law mechanism is necessary to protect freedom and democracy throughout europe. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – i think it is very clear that this mechanism should be fit for all member states and, from time to time, we will check everything in all the member states. i think this has been clear from the very beginning.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. for the eighth time in a row, the european parliament is in all probability refusing to grant discharge, following the european council and the council of the european union. why has it been like this for so many years? why does the council consistently refuse to answer the european parliament's questions in the context of discharge? where is the council when we talk about its responsibility to the citizens in the debate in the committee on budgetary control? i'm glad you're here tonight to set a precedent, i think. but the discharge is about making all eu institutions accountable to citizens for how they use their tax money. information on the council's budget and activities can be found in the annual reports. but that's not enough. the figures must be understandable and comprehensible to the public. if this is not the case in the annual report, then clarity must be ensured in the context of discharge. what distinguishes the council from the other eu institutions and their duty to be transparent in the use of funds? i welcome the talks between the council and parliament and hope that an agreement will be reached soon, but the principle that the european parliament is the only directly elected chamber with the power of discharge must be taken into account. but i would be very pleased if, as rapporteur for the discharge to the council for the financial year 2017, i could recommend discharge to the council on a new common working basis for the first time in eight years.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am extremely sorry that this year, as in previous years, we have to say that we will not grant the council discharge. we are not doing this because we are angry with the council or because we are insisting on rights that are not ours. we do this because we consider it our duty to examine critically for the taxpayer where his tax payments have actually gone and whether they have been spent in a meaningful way. the council refers to a 1970 gentlemen's agreement in which the two institutions agreed to accept each other's payments or expenditure without much critical scrutiny. that might have been okay 48 years ago. but today i think it is a gross violation of the rules and we should no longer tolerate it. i am glad that the president-in-office of the council referred to the memorandum of understanding and said that she would like to continue working on that basis now and to come to an arrangement with us as soon as possible. it is not right that the council should treat its expenditure as a state secret and deny the citizen access to it and thus the transparency to which he is actually obliged. the council must play by the rules - as my predecessors have said - just as all the other institutions. we liberals attach great importance to sound budgetary management, good administration and transparency. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's not the case. we therefore regret to have to refuse the discharge once again. i should also like to add that this decision was taken unanimously in the committee on budgetary control, without a vote against and without abstentions.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not mr president of the european council! we are in the process of reaching a great deal of agreement in this house on the evaluation of the last summit. at least that's my impression. it was a lost date, a date which gave no answers, a date on which the heads of state or government once again showed their inability or unwillingness to take europe forward, and their inability to understand that we are only stronger together. this is a bad image of europe, represented by the majority of heads of state and government. it is my firm belief that we cannot afford to do this seven months before the european elections. mr tusk, i'd like to pay you a compliment. you are well able to use the language of diplomacy. i honor that, you understand. but when you praise the austrian presidency for making progress and making efforts in asylum policy, what efforts do you mean? i may have missed something. but please explain to us what efforts the austrian presidency has made in this connection. the opposite is true! they're gonna sit out, block the asylum package. that is the reality, and that is europe being divided. it does not bind europe together, it does not build a bridge. the slogan of this austrian presidency is wrong. the austrian presidency of the council is dividing europe and is not giving any answers. that is the truth of this situation, which we no longer accept, which we no longer tolerate. it is a scandal what is happening in the mediterranean. we've said that more than once. we need more rescue at sea. that is why we are working to ensure that those who risk their lives are rewarded for it, that they are given the dignity of wearing the sakharov prize. but we know that we need fundamental solutions - fundamental solutions in solidarity with safe escape routes, with regulated labour migration and with the asylum package that the european parliament has adopted. this weekend showed that when europe is united, the consequences can be amazing. last saturday, we saw some 700,000 people marching in london to have a final say on a possible brexit deal. we think the british people deserve once they have seen the measures and the consequences of this divorce and once they have seen the lies of the brexiteers to have a final say on their future. this is my firm belief and this is my understanding of democracy. the next european elections are of outstanding importance for the future of our continent and for the future of democracy. you have seen right-wing radicalism and populism combine to undermine the european union, to put the european union in danger. fake news we discussed this yesterday the systematic way in which democratic decisions are being undermined must be fought decisively, and we also missed the austrian presidency of the council. the conservatives in the house must decide whether they want to continue defending democracy and the european union or whether they are the ones who are opening the door for the radical right. this is a decision, ladies and gentlemen, which you must make if you want to remain a reliable partner in the european union. and we'll test you accordingly. our path is clear: there is a positive moment in these resolutions. yes, pedro sánchez has succeeded in putting sustainability, the un's sustainable development goals, on the agenda. we look forward to the commission's contribution. we want to move forward decisively. that is the way we can move europe forward. that is what my group stands for.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to report to the rules of procedure. mr kamall said in his speech that the national socialists - that is to say, the fascists - were socialists after all. he has brought the fascists who set this world on fire closer to my political family. i think that's such an unspeakable derailment! i would like to remind you that it was the german social democrats who voted against the enabling act, against hitler, and they were the only ones who voted against it. others were already in concentration camps at the time. there are hundreds of thousands of social democrats, honest democrats, decent people who fell victim to the nazi terror because they were honest, because they defended democracy and human dignity. i think that this is such an unspeakable insolence on the part of mr kamall, such a derailment of this parliament, unworthy of europe, that i would ask you, mr president, to ask mr kamall to apologize immediately.
mr president, mr kamall knows what he is talking about. sorry.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. what the fellow doesn't understand is that this isn't about our personal relationship. it's about someone bringing social democracy closer to the fascists. that's what this is about! it's not about whether he's nice to me or not. i insist he correct that.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. you're making it worse. at the moment nobody is able to understand - neither mr kamall nor you - what a political mess it is to bring the social democrats in europe into the proximity of the fascists. i insist on a clarification. this isn't about my personal, our personal condition. it is a historical folly, a right-wing demagogy in this house. they expose their inability to understand political processes historically and currently. now i know exactly what kind of spirit they are. and, mr president, you should not identify with that because you are not honoring the color to which you belong.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not i am sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but i shall return to the debate we had earlier in my speech. mr. kamall, i would highly recommend that you: read klemperer's diaries, read his treatise on the language of the third reich, lti lingua tertii imperii! you will find that what happened there, namely the misuse of terms, the reinterpretation of them, is not only a matter of the past and your obvious lack of understanding of the history of europe - which is why the european union was created after the devastating war of the last century - but that it is relevant today. the reason why my social democratic colleagues react in this way - and rightly so - has to do with the fact that the notion of national socialism/national is being merged again, that it is back. it exists in our countries. there are people on the streets collecting weapons, attacking foreigners, attacking leftists, murdering people in europe, in our eu. you should have realised that by now, you cannot have isolated yourself so much from the history of europe on your island. you're part of it. that's what i had to tell you. it is not a matter of taking these terms lightly. (applause from the centre) it is not a frivolous act, it is a political outrage that you have committed here. i would like to say to you: please read, study and, above all, look at what is happening in our member states! i'm coming to the top now. much has been said about the way the summit went, what it brought. but ultimately we still face one of the biggest challenges, both in terms of brexit theresa may can tell you ten times: we are now at 90%, we are at 95%, we are at 97%, or we are at 99.5%. the crucial question is: is the uk government prepared to find a solution within the withdrawal agreement the divorce agreement which includes acceptance, respect for the good friday agreement and the rights it enshrines for the people of northern ireland, while avoiding a hard border? is she ready to stop playing on the fears of people in the uk, but also in the eu? what we're seeing is a drama. i have the impression that people deliberately aim to arrive at the very last minute. it's a british negotiating tactic. i cannot tell whether it is the pressure from the brexiteers or from someone else somewhere - from the government, from parliament, from the street or elsewhere. i just know there's no willingness to put anything on the table. it is the british themselves who say: 'don't interfere! we are responsible for ensuring that there is a solution for northern ireland. but you're not going to present it, and that's the point. there will be no agreement - i say it again - unless the issue of northern ireland is settled in the divorce agreement. i'll explain it again, like a stubborn child. i have one more comment to make to you, mr timmermans. you were talking about doing your homework for the budget. i would just like to say that, in my view, success does not depend on everyone doing their homework, if homework is not done correctly, if homework is not given to the most willing pupils - and that is certainly not the case with mr salvini and mr di matteo - but if it is given to the most willing pupils, then it is not the case with the most unwilling pupils. but even the most willing students would not be able to meet the classroom goal unless the homework was formulated differently. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. the fact is that we have an economic and monetary union, we have a financial union; but we don't have a social union. we don't have it. so please don't tell something that's not true in reality and people won't notice. if we talk about why populists, for example, have had such an influx, then we have to question exactly that. we must then ask ourselves why people in italy, in other countries, are willing to look to brussels rather than actually electing a non-populist democratic government. i would also ask my friends here from five stars not to allow themselves to be taken prisoner by mr salvini for a policy which they do not support.
the european council has already made a number of proposals. i would like to thank the european council and the commission, michel barnier, for having managed to ensure that we are still on the same page on the history of brexit. i think that's the best way to get things done around here. we have to get through this. the crucial point is that in the united kingdom there is no common position in the government, in the government group and in the whole parliament and within the opposition. that is our basic difficulty. that means we have a partner with whom we cannot seriously negotiate because there is no structure in this partner. i think that the european parliament has as a condition mr tajani has said that we must find a sensible solution to avoid the hard irish border and we must make it clear that the unity of the internal market must be preserved. let me make a second point. the inf treaty, mr president-in-office, was concluded to make intermediate-range missiles impossible in europe. that is why it is important and why it must be enforced. i find it intolerable that the american president is resigning without consulting and cooperating with the europeans and now is mixing this up with china. we must stand together to save this, so that we do not get new medium-range missiles in europe from any side. even if we have to make it clear to russia that they can't do that. third point, in short: populism picks up the issues everywhere that can be used for populist purposes. i also sometimes get the impression that we are not making progress on migration because some people don't want to solve the migration issue, but need it as a topic to assert their positions politically and use it for populist purposes. but i would also like to say that we europeans have been the guarantors of this peace for 70 years, mr farage, that this europe was built in cooperation with the united kingdom and the united states, and that europe was also involved in the defeat of the great totalitarian regime from moscow. and one last word: german social democrats voted against national socialism in 1933. i will never forget this in the spd, and it is something that should be expressed in such a situation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i suggest we stop all the yelling and shouting here. i must say that sometimes one is ashamed to be a member of this parliament. the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. i am sure you have also followed with interest and sympathy the demonstrations in london last weekend. but i've also heard from some former remainers that they've become brexiters because they're upset about the way the european commission is treating britain. michel barnier is always very quick to explain the economic impact of brexit on the european union. but what this means for industry in the european union, for jobs and economic growth in the european union, i have not yet heard from the commission. the uk is already the largest customer of the european union today, and the economy treats customers of that size well. i think it is time for the commission to make a customer-friendly offer to the uk.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. i think it is excellent and a real glimpse of european politics that the 27 heads of state and government have not been divided on the brexit issue. i would like to emphasize that you are making a very good contribution to this. but on the other hand, we have seen your report. and although today's debate is about the council meeting, your report did not go on for five minutes. that means there was nothing to report. many speakers have already addressed this. i remember the days when the european council regularly issued important reports, when we developed europe, when we tackled the problems and challenges with vigour, not only in the commission and parliament but also in the council. i really urge you to think about it, to take the initiative, so that at the end of this european parliamentary term you will go down in the history books as the man who overcame the council's blockade, who managed to bring in new momentum and finally break the deadlock of decision-making! that would be a great service to the whole of the european union. what do we got? we see many governments in europe as a weak point. we have often spoken here of the unspeakable situation in poland; the european court of justice has already ruled on this. most of us are concerned about the way in which the romanian government is failing to fight corruption and is trampling on european values. we now have the irresponsible government in italy which wants to break european law and thereby plunge its entire country into the abyss and endanger the future of its people. if two speakers have mentioned that this is the question. whether we like a government or not is not the point at all. we are concerned that if more and more european governments no longer see responsibility, but only see how to create a mood among the people, how to achieve good electoral results at the expense of the people in these countries, then i would also like to see a clear debate finally held in the council on how to deal with the people and peoples of europe and what responsibility means in politics, including at the national and central levels of government.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are talking about brexit for the second time. it is well known that both sides in these negotiations are keen to delay the negotiations until the last minute and are not currently putting their cards on the table. so far, nothing new on this front. the same is true of the migration crisis, of all the efforts around frontex, which have so far produced nothing no agreement in sight there either, after three years. but the fact that you are here, and you are blaming the austrian presidency of the council for being the only one willing to act is a special kind of humour. if you are going to attack mr salvini for his budget, let me point out that it is true that italy has too high a budget deficit. but mr salvini has presented the budget with the third lowest debt in italy for the last 18 years. and i'll close with a quote from herbert frahm: the socialist element in national socialism, in the thinking of its followers, the subjective revolutionary at the base, must be recognized by us. the man's name was later willy brandt and he was the spd party chairman.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we need europe. but if we want to preserve europe, we must urgently reform it, we must make it more democratic. the european parliament must finally be given the rights that a parliament has in a genuine democracy, such as the right to propose new legislation, the ability to take decisions on foreign and security policy. after all, in a democracy, parliament should be the supreme body. the commission must become an elected government and the european court of justice must confine itself to ensuring that the existing treaties are respected. he must judge by the existing laws and must not change or develop them. this lack of understanding of democracy was one of several reasons for brexit, and many committed europeans also want reforms in the eu. we need europe, but we need a democratic europe.
mr president, mr vice-president, madam president-in-office of the council, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european union has become democratic with lisbon. all institutions are democratically legitimised by the election of the citizen, by the election of this house or by the election of the national parliaments on the council side. this applies in particular to the commission; there's nothing to explain. in some areas we have more rights on these matters than some national parliaments and that should not be discussed away. it serves the people, it benefits them, it creates jobs, it prevents crises, it helps them to cope with problems. we overcame the financial crisis of 2008 and no one went bankrupt with solidarity help. we need to improve the instruments. for this we need more decision-making and more co-decision-making. that's why we have to use the catwalk. that is why the council must act. i consider today's council's behaviour to be contrary to the treaty. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i think that is contrary to the treaty. the time will come when we will have to complain that the treaty is not being used to bring about the capacity to act - the capacity to act that we need to solve today's problems - on migration, internal and external security, climate change and many other issues - for the betterment of our citizens. the citizens expect europe to be more active. that is the main reason for the criticism of europe today, that we are not delivering. for this we need improved decision-making structures, which are possible under the lisbon treaty. i think we should use this in a more intensive way. i mean, when it says 'does not serve the people', it means that the commission is independent of instructions, lobbyists and others, not the trick you, mr pagne, told us earlier. and this european union is for the people. the first sentence of the charter of fundamental rights reads: 'the dignity of the human person is inviolable.' but you and your political clique have never respected that dignity.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the romans said: pacta sunt servanda - contracts must be respected. the commissioner is holding the rule of law like a gloriole. you keep referring to it. but when it comes to the european union, the treaty is not being respected. in monetary policy, the no-bailout clause has been removed from the table. madam lagarde said that we had to break the treaties to save the euro. the monetary union is not a rule of law, it is an opportunist's game. what do we need to do to save the euro? if you look at the policy of mr draghi, who is also breaking article 123 by buying government bonds by way of roundabouts - we know all about that. but this is not monetary policy. this is the attempt to hold the eurozone together by false means, and you see this over and over again. this morning you spoke of the fact that the european union is facing major crises. yes, we are in the process of producing these crises through this policy. mr timmermans, stick to the rule of law!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i must be honest, i've heard a lot of nonsense and abstractions today. it almost seems to me that the treaties of the european union were drawn up by some martians and imposed on the governments of the member states. the opposite is true. it is the governments that have made these treaties what they are today. we as a parliament had very different ideas of how we could do this. the real problem in the european union is not our treaties. the european union is not a political union, but a political union, and it is not a political union, but a political union. it is time that the responsibility of all politicians is awakened and that they bring this society back together and not always with empty slogans, dividing, dividing, so that we end up with no possibility of a future. we have to change our policy.
mr president, mr president of the court of auditors, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i do not read the court of auditors' report and the error rate in such a way as to make the administration better. i read the report that the administrations are slowing down. and that we have too much money in the system, that's probably true, because who doesn't spend that money? and you can see from the court report that this money is not needed at the moment because there is still so much old money. that's the worrying part. and that it is so, we have a part of responsibility in that. i think that if we focused on what is actually being done on the ground, we would be doing a service to all those involved. we must focus on the reality, and it looks like poland still has not called up €27.3 billion €27.3 billion in this financial framework , italy €15.6 billion. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has already taken a decision on the issue of the financial correction of the deficit. so i suggest that the italians, the italian government, are urged to use this money: do it! i would also like to say that the report shows that we have old problems, for example in the czech republic. the czech republic is paying a heavy price for corrupt structures, and i can only say that these structures must be fixed, otherwise the entire population will pay the price. we'll take care of that, too. i'm a little concerned that the current debate about the error rate misses the point of how well that error rate is calculated. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that the commission has already made a number of proposals in the past, and i am sure that the commission will make a number of proposals in the future. this means that the error rate is reduced, but this does not mean that the administration is actually improved.
mr president, commissioner, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we have heard it many times now: the error rate is decreasing until it reached 2.4% in 2017. but what conclusion can be drawn from this? one conclusion - and this was read in many newspapers - is that 2.4 percent is equivalent to 3.3 billion euros, and that it seems to have been completely wasted. the headlines and the coverage suggest that they were simply carelessly left in the sand or misused. over 3 billion euros is certainly not peanuts. but we must be clear: where people work, mistakes happen, mistakes, for example, in the case of ineligible costs or insufficient documentation. i regularly meet people from my own country who also tell me again and again how complicated european aid programmes are, and we are working on simplifying these aid programmes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper way. another way of concluding is to say that the court's annual report confirms that 97.6% of all cases were uncontested. this, of course, does not fit the eu's critics' agenda. but it means that 97.6% of it was used correctly. with all the bad news, it's a good thing.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. tomorrow we shall vote on the trilogue mandate for the regulation on the import of cultural goods. why does the european parliament care about the importation of illegal cultural goods from third countries? after drugs and weapons, the illicit trade in cultural goods is considered one of the most lucrative businesses on the black market, and may also be used to finance terrorism. but the real issue here is that centuries-old evidence of human civilization may be lost forever, sold on the black market, or disappear in open ports or cellars. we are not playing the world policeman, but the principle must be applied: culture is worth protecting everywhere in the world. we must therefore not allow cultural goods of high value to be illegally placed on the market in the european union. better customs rules help to combat organised crime, money laundering and tax evasion. the text as voted in committee is, in my view, balanced and takes all interests into account equally. the bureaucratic effort for the art trade will be relatively small. only a fraction of all imports will require an import licence, as it mainly concerns archaeological goods. not every family heirloom is included. all other cultural goods are subject to an age and value limit. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. this dossier makes a valuable contribution to this, especially in 2018, the european year of cultural heritage.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. first of all, i would like to thank you for the good and constructive cooperation on this dossier. although we all shared a common objective, it was certainly not always easy to find compromises in this dossier. but i think we have a very balanced text which, in the ecr's opinion, is certainly lacking in some respects, but i think that overall we have a very good, constructive and balanced result. the aim of the import regulation is to harmonise the rules governing the importation into the eu of cultural goods which do not originate in the eu. this too has been misrepresented repeatedly in the past. we must make this very clear again, because we are talking about cultural goods which originate in a third country and not in the eu, and the watch of a british great-uncle or grandfather may not be included in this. the general objective is to prevent the illegal importation of cultural goods from a third country and their storage in the eu, to curb the illegal trade in cultural goods, to combat the financing of terrorism and to protect the cultural heritage not only our own but that of humanity as a whole . i think it is right that we have limited the scope of application as far as possible to those cultural objects which are most affected by illicit trade and which also have a special significance for cultural heritage. this will avoid unnecessary red tape for the art market, small and medium-sized enterprises, customs and national authorities. we have introduced a minimum age, we have introduced financial thresholds, and we also have the icom red lists as an additional filter to really limit us to the assets that are worth protecting. we have thus achieved a balanced result that is certainly acceptable to all. i hope that we can enter into negotiations with the council as soon as possible in order to arrive at a protective and good legislation here.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the commission's proposal for a law on the protection of cultural property is aimed primarily at preventing the financing of terrorism. this is a very central and important task. but we must go a step further, because the theft and trafficking of historical and cultural property causes irreparable damage to all humanity and its cultural memory. as long as it is possible to trade illegally acquired historical cultural property for profit and to make money without great risks, looting will continue in the future. the protection of cultural heritage starts where it is needed, in the european private collector market. the main point is that the public has the right of access to objects relevant to cultural heritage. these objects must be capable of being used for education and also for academic research. i am glad that the libe committee's request for restitution has been accepted. this would ensure the return of objects illegally excavated, stolen and traded.
member of the commission. – mr president, today we are debating a package of proposals for new legislation on veterinary medicines. this includes the commission’s proposal for new rules on veterinary medical products and medicated feed and amendments to regulation (ec) no 726/2004 on the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products and establishing a european medicines agency. four years, as mentioned before, of discussions between the co—legislators have made many improvements to the initial proposal put forward by the commission in 2014. i believe the text before us today provides a legal framework that is modern, innovative and fit for purpose. the package contains very concrete measures to promote more prudent use of antimicrobials in animals and strengthen eu action against antimicrobial resistance. these measures are designed in line with the one-health approach, recognising that human health, animal health and the environment are interconnected. they follow the comprehensive eu action plan on antimicrobial resistance. you will remember that commissioner andriukaitis came to discuss it in this house several times, including last september in this plenary, when ms kadenbach’s own—initiative report on antimicrobial resistance was adopted. i’m very grateful to the european parliament for its valuable support and intensive work during the negotiations, particularly that of the three rapporteurs: ms grossetête, ms aguilera garcía and mr tănăsescu. thank you. a few words on the individual components. first, on the key elements of the proposal for veterinary medical products. the text lays down a vast array of measures to tackle antimicrobial resistance. they build on the one-health approach and include: first, a ban on the preventive use of antibiotics in groups of animals; second, restrictions on metaphylactic use; third, the possibility to reserve certain antimicrobials for human use only; fourth, a ban on using antimicrobials to promote animal growth, adding to the 2006 ban on antibiotics as feed additives; fifth, other measures aimed at the prudent and responsible use of antimicrobials. in an ambitious move, the rules on growth promotion and antimicrobials reserved for human use in the eu also apply to non-eu operators exporting their animals or animal products to the eu. in addition, member states will be required to collect and report data on the sales and use of antimicrobials in animals. this valuable data will support the design and implementation of targeted policies against antimicrobial resistance in the future. the text also aims to the stimulate innovation and improve availability. it provides for a simplified assessment procedure and a data protection period which may be extended by up to 18 years under certain conditions. this will facilitate the development of new antimicrobial veterinarian medicines, both generally and those more specific to mirror real diseases in major species that may not be developed under current market conditions. these measures will be supported by: first, clear and fully-harmonised labelling requirements; second, a simpler system for variation decisions; and third, a risk—based approach for pharmacovigilance and controls. the proposal for medical feed will also make an important contribution to the eu’s work on antimicrobial resistance. it will ensure the economically-viable production of safe medicated feed adapted to the optimal local situation and support innovation in medical pet food. a new area it covers is chronically-diseased pets. the proposal creates the legal framework to enable pet owners to administer veterinary medicines via pet food. once the new regulations are adopted, the commission will begin urgent action to support its implementation, notably through delegated and implemented acts. to accompany this package of proposals, the commission will have two formal statements to make with regard to the reports of ms grossetête and mr tănăsescu. these have been provided to parliamentʼs services for inclusion in the record of this debate. the first one concerns veterinarian medical products. on this, the commission acknowledges the substantial input in terms of resources required by the member states to implement the new rules on the collection and reporting of data on the sales and use of antimicrobial use in animals. it also underlines its commitment to providing the necessary technical support to member states to design and implement policies on antimicrobial resistance. and the second concerns the proposed amendments to regulation (ec) no 726/2004. on this, the commission will clarify the transition arrangements and state its regret that the alignment of existing provisions with the lisbon treaty could not take place under a single legislative instrument. dear president, honourable members, to summarise: the adoption of these new regulations on veterinary medicines will mark a major achievement in this field. they will help consolidate the eu’s position as a world leader in acting against antimicrobial resistance and contribute to global progress in this critical area. they will also deliver a stable and harmonised marketplace for veterinary medicines and medicated feed in the eu that encourages innovation and competitiveness and contributes to greater animal health and welfare and food safety. thank you again for all the dedicated work and i look forward to a positive outcome in tomorrow’s vote. statements by the commission (in writing) regulation of the european parliament and ofthe council on veterinary medicinal products com (2014)558 final – 2014/0257(cod)“the new eu regulation on veterinary medicinal products requires member states to collect and report data on sales and use of antimicrobials used in animals. the commission considers this information essential to identify possible risk factors for development and spread of antimicrobial resistance (amr), monitor trends in antimicrobial consumption, target relevant policy measures and assess their implementation. although the implementation of this legal requirement is foreseen through a gradual (stepwise) approach, it may require substantial input in terms of administrative, human and financial resources. the european one health action plan against amr recognises that in order to deliver long-lasting results and create the necessary impetus, it is important that the eu legislation related to amr (including, inter alia, on the use of veterinary medicines) is adequately implemented. in this context, the commission has committed in that action plan to engage in supporting member states in the implementation of eu rules, including by providing technical support through the structural reform support service (srss) for designing and implementing policies against amr. furthermore, the commission will explore the possibilities for supporting this data collection in member states in line with its proposals made in the context of the future eu multiannual financial framework.” *** proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004 laying down community procedures for the authorisation and supervision of medicinal products for human and veterinary use and establishing a european medicines agency com (2014)557 final – 2014/0256(cod)“the commission recalls its position that when adapting existing commission empowerments to article 290 and 291 tfeu it is not an appropriate legislative technique to provide for transitional provisions that would state that commission acts adopted previously under those empowerments will continue to apply unless and until repealed. in the commission's view such provisions state the obvious and would not be coherent with other legislative acts and are liable to induce legal uncertainty at a broader level. the commission regrets that only part of the existing regulatory procedure with scrutiny empowerments in directive 2001/83 and regulation 1901/2006 will be aligned in this instrument, while the rest of the empowerments remain to be aligned in the context of the negotiations on the omnibus alignment proposal (com(2016) 799). in the commission’s view the full alignment should have taken place in one of the two instruments.”
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and food safety. the commission has already made a number of proposals. animal and human well-being are closely linked. the risk of antibiotic resistance is therefore problematic for both. it is therefore all the more important that we now take countermeasures in veterinary medicine if we do not want to run the risk of antibiotics becoming completely ineffective. the package now before us sets the stage for even better animal health in the eu and creates safety for people. i would like to highlight three achievements: under no circumstances should antibiotics compensate for poor animal welfare conditions. this means that preventive use is prohibited and that group treatment is only allowed if there is no other suitable alternative. there is no substitute for good animal husbandry. secondly, the use of antibiotics in human medicine is being further restricted in veterinary medicine. and thirdly, the mixing of medicated feedingstuffs with non-target feedingstuffs should be avoided. this means that antibiotics are now used only for specific purposes. i would like to thank the members for their cooperation.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already done so. i would also like to thank all the rapporteurs in advance. we have three of them today: two for the legislative and one for the resolution. i think today is a really good day to be fighting antimicrobial resistance. we are celebrating the conclusion of the trilogue negotiations today, and i am very pleased that we have succeeded in doing so. for one thing, we've actually just separated animal medicine from human medicine. we also said there must be separate product lines available. i think that was an important prerequisite for getting the problem under control. we need antibiotics. we need them in humans and in animals, but we want them to work. that's why it's important to be economical with the stake. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. of course, this is not good for the animals or for the people who may eat the meat afterwards. it's good that this practice has been discontinued for a long time. now it's clear that we've got this legally settled. we have also legislated where a veterinarian must be involved and how he must be involved. of course, veterinarians are always on board when it comes to medication. we have also agreed that antibiotics can be given to a herd if some animals become ill and the whole herd is in danger of becoming ill. so a lot of things are actually regulated by this. i believe that if we implement all this as we have decided, if it is implemented in the member states later on, then we have a good chance of actually fighting antibiotic resistance.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i think we can all agree that we've taken a big step forward in addressing one of the most pressing problems facing humankind, which is antibiotic resistance. we have made some progress in recent years in reducing the use of antibiotics in animal husbandry, but in some countries it is still twice as high as in human medicine. it can't stay that way. we risk losing the future of being treated with antibiotics, and that's the problem we're addressing now. prophylaxis is illegal, and that's a good thing. and it's being regulated even more. but we're also going to be looking at the topic of metaphylaxis. i also think it is important that if one of the 30 000 chickens in a flock is sick, you cannot give the whole flock medicine, but that measures must be taken now to separate the animals. there must be more precaution. this is a very important step, because otherwise, metaphylaxis would have replaced prophylaxis. we need a very clear data collection of how much is being used so that we can track whether consumption is going down. and we also have to realize that before we use antibiotics in the future, we have to be very clear that we have to be checked by a veterinarian whether we really need to use those antibiotics. we have made a real step forward in many areas. and i would also like to stress once again that it is also a great success that we are regulating imports. the same applies to european farmers. this is also important if we are to achieve this ambitious approach among farmers and to gain their understanding. we therefore welcome this and hope that we have indeed taken a big step forward.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. let us imagine that every month seven large planes with full crew crash in europe - not anywhere in the world, but every month in the european union. 25,000 deaths a year. it is not only commissioner bulc, who is responsible for transport and who is hopefully listening now, who would be working day and night to solve this problem; the whole european union, the european institutions, would probably be concerned with nothing more than saying: we have to change something. but this is the situation with antibiotic resistance: 25,000 deaths a year! every day people die somewhere in europe because antibiotics have lost their effectiveness. that means we have to act. we need to do the same in human medicine. we need to be more careful with antibiotics, we need better hygiene, and we need incentives for new antibiotics. the first points are for the member states, but the last is for the european commission. i am very disappointed that the commission has not yet put forward any proposals to this effect, despite repeated requests from parliament. but there is also a need for action in veterinary medicine. this is where we start. françoise grossetête has presented a very good report and i am glad that we will be able to support the result in plenary tomorrow by a large majority. i ask the journalists who are listening to me to report vigorously on this and not just on the problems that have not yet been solved. we really did something here!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. every locomotive in the european union must pay a toll for every kilometre of the line. the toll on the road is voluntary. this is to remain the case and applies, for example, in germany only to motorways, some other roads and lorries over 7.5 tonnes. 100% of the rail network is paved and 1% of the road network. the environmentally friendly railways are made expensive and the climate-damaging roads cheap by politics. this is a crazy but sad reality, and it needs to change. we need at least a fair competition. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. the vignette is not only un-ecological, but also un-social. the cost of the road is the same for 10 000 kilometres as for 200 000 kilometres. the vignette must therefore be abolished and replaced by a distance-based toll. we had a large majority in the committee in favour of this, and i hope we will have a large majority in parliament. we want a minimum amount for the toll and no maximum. in mountainous regions, they can then estimate the real costs. and multi-drive drivers need to be equalised. there is no flat rate on the railway; why should there be one on the road? then why don't you do it on the railway, so we can have a fair competition? transport is the only sector in europe where emissions have increased since 1990, by 28%! in industry, we have achieved a reduction of 38% in the billions of our taxpayers' money, in households by 24%, only in transport has it increased. so transport is eating up double and triple what has been achieved in other sectors with billions of our taxpayers' money. and that's why we need to change mobility to stop climate change and so that our children and their children have a perspective of living on this planet as well. i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. madam president, because you have resisted the idea of a europe-wide system, but there is one on the railway. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is in favour of the abolition of the railway toll for passenger cars, so that those who often use public transport on the railway will also pay less? are you here for fair competition, or do you not care? this is the environmentally friendly railway, we can make it expensive, but the climate-damaging road must be cheap, also in the future.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. local public transport is the solution to many problems in cities, provided it is environmentally friendly. we are making sure of that with this directive. we are making it easier for the municipalities to achieve the aims of the directive by recognising hybrids as well. but we should make it clear again tomorrow that we're only talking about plug-in hybrids. it is also important to me that the municipalities receive support for fleet renewal. this support will come from the european union, but it must also be complemented by the member states. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive. but i must also make one thing clear to my fellow conservatives here today: economic protectionism, as envisaged in amendment no 82, will not make the air in european cities cleaner. with this populist trump policy you are harming the european citizens who have to breathe bad air. with this amendment you are ensuring that in future dirty air will have to be defined as clean, as has recently happened in germany. the german chancellor, angela merkel, has made a desperate attempt. this cannot become european policy.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. it 's quite remarkable . i do not think there is a head of government in the eu who does not want workers in the eu as a whole to become more mobile. we stress wherever possible that the european labour market lacks the will to move. if we want mobile workers, we must finally enable them to be mobile. the only way to do this is through education and training, and the only way to do this is through the automatic recognition of periods of study abroad in the eu. but the reality is different. the vast majority of students who undertake a long-term study abroad miss a year of schooling in their home country. the lisbon convention was adopted in 1997, almost a quarter of a century ago. in principle, the convention provides that a higher education qualification awarded in a contracting state is to be recognized in all contracting states, as are degrees and periods of study, without any problems. the fact is that recognition procedures take months to complete and administrative procedures between member states, and even between regions within a member state, are not coordinated. despite european guidance frameworks, the assessment bases applied locally vary considerably. career planning based on a foreign qualification is therefore still almost impossible. the victims feel pampered and subject to arbitrariness. for 25 years, we have not succeeded in the european higher education area, and especially in the education area to be created, in removing such barriers that it seems attractive enough, especially for trainees, to study abroad. the best performers are our students, but each of us knows someone in his or her own environment who is studying or training and who is dealing with a process that seems absurd and time-consuming. it's a lot of frustration. the free movement of workers remains a right which in fact exists only on paper. or you can do the counter-test: have you recently met any young europeans who have said: 'i did a training period abroad, my accreditation went perfectly smoothly, in two weeks everything was done, great!'? not to me. what should have been a reality 25 years ago now sounds like a joke to us. that, ladies and gentlemen, is the real scandal! the commission is now gratefully trying to put forward a proposal to promote automatic recognition. in november, at the gothenburg summit, all member states declared that the european education area was a huge step forward and, above all, of enormous importance. but when it comes to putting the idea into practice, the mainstream parties win out. the commission's proposal was to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. why not? i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. the commission is immediately suspected of interfering in educational content. but that is not in the proposal. those who can read have a clear advantage here. it really cannot be too much to ask for an agreement within the next seven years on automatic recognition of learning time, which would make separate recognition procedures superfluous, especially since all eu member states have been committed to the lisbon convention for almost 20 years now. i have the impression that the wake-up call which the commission issued at the gothenburg summit was still too low-key to be heard in such clarity in the member states and, above all, to be understood. the fact that the objective of a european education area by 2025 is not only a nice sounding one but also a problem that needs to be solved with increasing urgency in view of the skills shortages, language skills shortages, mathematical and scientific skills shortages, digital skills shortages and the growing demand for more mobile workers, has, in my view, been completely misunderstood by the member states. it is the only way to explain why some people are so resistant to automatic reciprocal recognition. i am firmly convinced that we need to commit ourselves much more to the idea of achieving a european education area by 2025. it is ultimately a question of fairness and appreciation: not just towards students, whose mobility through the european higher education area is already well developed. we must also offer this advantage to trainees and school leavers in a much better way. i hope that tomorrow, as in the cultural committee, parliament's resolution will be adopted by a large majority and that the heads of state and government will finally give it some thought.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. yeah, i think that's the diesel gate of the chemical industry. that's what i call it. i must also say that i am appalled that responsibility is being shifted here. the council is not to blame, the commission knows nothing, and people are washing their hands of innocence. i can only say that the fact that ngos have also brought this up is another indication that this is either a failure of control, a refusal to work, or what? i don't know, man. but you're playing with people's health. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the disease. more than 600 that can cause cancer, that can cause hormonal changes, and then you shrug your shoulders. we have a good law with reach. if you don't fill it with life or don't want to fill it, we're going to be breaking our own good legislation at the end of the day. this can't happen. that is why i am asking the commission to name the horse and rider. who doesn't provide reasonable documentation? what chemical companies are sluts? this must be brought to light so that we can also hold to account those who very - yes, deliberately - flout european law.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for this question as it allows me to update you on the state of play of the implementation of the two regulations on medical devices. i know this is an extremely important issue. we all want the continuous availability of safe and innovative medical devices and, of course, for this we need a smooth transition to the new system. let me underline, at the very beginning, that so far all relevant legal deadlines established by the regulations have been met. work is advancing and progressing according to the plans. this was the case for the establishment of the governance structure; the launch of the designation code and procedure for notified bodies; and the delivery of the new plan for the implementation of the new medical devices database (eudamed). we had already prepared for the future even before the regulations were adopted. we established effective cooperation with the national competent authorities for medical devices. together with them, we have elaborated a roadmap of activities to be undertaken during the transitional period. work is on track to implement the roadmap, again together with the expert groups. we are in continuous dialogue with the notified bodies, industry and all other relevant stakeholders. as was said in the speech by ms mcguinness, there are three directorates—general cooperating and sharing responsibilities. we are putting a lot of human resources on this file. but let me assure you, we have a very common understanding of the topic and of the issues between our commission services. also, member states have mobilised their resources to contribute to the implementation process and member states are fully committed, in the form of the competent authorities for medical devices, to preparing for the future. we are aware that we need enough notified bodies by the end of the transition period. this is a key precondition for the smooth transition. the commission has set up the entire legal and technical infrastructure to allow for the designation procedure to start as soon as possible. again, i want to underline that we have been ready from the very first legal date, which was 27 december last year. the number of applications received so far shows that the designation procedure is overall on track. so far, there have been no delays in assessing the applications of notified bodies. but of course we should not only look at the numbers. the top priority is patient safety. so we should remember that the lack of effective control of the notified bodies under the old system was one of the main reasons to review the medical devices framework. a large share of the responsibility now lies with the notified bodies themselves, as well as with the operators. it is also up to them to prepare and prove their fitness under the revised framework. a few words on brexit as it is an extremely important issue. as for all other sectors, this is also a challenge for the medical devices industry. so far, four notified bodies have been established in the uk. in its public notice of january this year, the commission advised stakeholders to take all necessary measures because, as we all know, a certificate issued by uk notified bodies will no longer be valid as from 29 march next year. many other sectors, of course, face the same situation, but, as far as we know, the uk notified bodies and industry associations have been extremely active in preparing for brexit ahead of time. four notified bodies have already taken the initiative to adapt to the post—brexit scenario. again, we should not rest on our laurels, but for now, we see that they were very proactive and active. so let me conclude by saying that we are on track. there are no deviations from the requirements and deadlines established by parliament and the council. so for now, there is no reason to ring the alarm bell. but of course there is still a lot of work ahead of us: first to ensure the transition to the new system but also the availability of devices over the next few years. therefore, we in the commission, together we will monitor the implementation process in very close and very constant cooperation with the national competent authorities, the member states of course, and all other stakeholders.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. this is almost like a family reunion of medical devices after the very long and tough negotiations we've gone through to get this thing going. it was a very complicated procedure with many, many pages - 700 pages, i believe, of council documents alone. so it was complicated. the trigger was - as my colleague mrs mcguinness has just said and as my other colleague has also mentioned - the breast implant scandal. it was about patient safety now. that's why i find it a pity that the visitors' stands are still so empty. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, which i am sure will be very helpful to the commission. it was clear from the outset, when we were finishing the very difficult negotiations, that the commission was now on the move and had a lot to do with laying the foundations for the implementation of this regulation in the first place. what's the matter? we all know this, but medical devices are about all sorts of things, from adhesive pads to scalpels, it's about the operating table, the hospital bed, the artificial hip and knee joint as well as the pacemaker. and all this is decentrally certified in the eu through the so-called 'notified bodies'. in germany, what surprises many is that even the tüv, which is actually responsible for road transport, also carries out these certifications. in 2013, we had 87 designated entities in the eu, in 2018 only 59. so that was less than more, and seven of them are in the uk. that is why we are very concerned. these designated bodies play a very important role. they have to certify medical devices. 30 to 45% of the medical devices on the market are certified there, and due to specialisation, this can be even higher. in the orthopaedic field, in hip and knee joints, 70% of them are certified, so it's actually a much higher percentage. we need a lot of it . and with the decreasing number of notified bodies and also in view of the increasing number of medical devices in the eu, the existing notified bodies are already reaching their capacity limits today - i say it again: they have become fewer. and then there are new problems. i'll give you four points. one: there are really challenges from brexit, because with brexit if it comes, i still hope it doesn't come falling in march 2019 just a few places seven, i've already said it. and then the demand for the designated bodies in the other member states is expected to increase considerably. this is of course something that has clearly limited capacity. in addition, the certificates issued in the uk would lose their validity - there was a commission notice - and the devices would then either have to be recertified in the other 27 member states, with one of the already overburdened bodies, or they would have to be recertified, or a body would have to be moved from the uk to the eu, which is certainly not feasible until march 2019. the third point is that all medical devices on the market must be certified under the new regulation by may 2020. the process of designating the notified bodies, the audit, is not moving fast enough in our view. commissioner, you said the commission was full on schedule. we fear that it may not be quite so. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. at present there is not a single designated body that has actually been designated. fourth point: in addition, the date of application of the new medical device regulation in may 2020 will lead to an increased workload for notified bodies, as more medical devices scalpels, surgical lamps and so on require a certificate than before, and on the other hand a flood of new certifications is expected. it is foreseeable that, by the date of application of the regulation, not all products currently in use will have a certificate, and thus would not be usable and the patient care would be in real danger. we also run the risk that patient care after may 2020 could become really difficult and that we can no longer guarantee that. for example, hip joints with a uk certificate may not be certified in time for the eu27 after march 2019, basic surgical equipment such as a scalpel or a surgical lamp, which currently do not have a certificate and will need one from may 2020, may not be certified yet and therefore not available due to lack of capacity. and that is why i heard what you said, commissioner. but do you not really think - as my colleague borzan has just said - that it might be wise to extend the date of application by a year or two, so that you are on the safe side and do not risk bottlenecks in patient care?
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i must say that i am late because the ambulance services are on strike here in strasbourg. this is certainly linked to the medical device regulation in a broader sense. but seriously, commissioner, i think that the arguments that have been put forward are really very important, because there are currently about 500 000 medical devices on the market in the european union. these products must meet the new requirements for patient safety. but in any case, they must be made available to the people who depend on them to get these products directly - now and in the months to come - in a highly secure manner. so the fact that we have this delay in the places that we have mentioned is a very big problem for the patients in the european union who are waiting for a product today. in this context, i would simply ask you to do everything possible to increase the number of notified bodies within a framework which will allow us to apply the new medical devices regulation as quickly as possible. mrs mcguinness, who has contributed a great deal to this dossier, has already pointed this out. the implementing acts that are binding for certification are still missing. i think you all understand that the companies which manufacture these products can of course only adapt to the new regulations if they know in advance what specific requirements they have to meet. i now realize, of course, that the member states may well have a share of responsibility in this. that's not a question. but it doesn't help the companies in the end if we as politicians shift the blame back and forth between the levels of government. the companies need legal certainty and, to my knowledge, they also want to implement the requirements of the new medical device regulation. this is why it is vital to use today's debate to seek solutions with the european commission so that companies in europe who manufacture products that are vital for patient safety - but also for patient health - can continue to do so in the coming months with legal certainty. i would ask all my colleagues, and in particular the european commission, to do so.
i have to say, madam president, the two new regulations, as has been said many times in this chamber, are designed to ensure that patients in the european union have access to safe and effective medical devices. that is the goal that we, as a house, are definitely committed to. the importance of this has been demonstrated, not least, by the scandals of defective breast implants or hip joints. only we at european level can set common standards, because medical devices are also traded in the european single market and cross borders. this is very clear in the case of brexit. our priority throughout the legislation, which unfortunately has been dragged out for a very long time, has always been patient safety. the two texts take account of this patient safety. they increase the requirements for manufacturers of medical devices or for monitoring associations such as the tüv or dekra. in the new regulation, parliament has ensured that manufacturers of medical devices will in future need to have adequate insurance, so that patients are at least financially protected in the event of damage. but it cannot be that we now find that, just before the date of implementation, important implementing acts are not yet on the table and important measures leading to improvements in patient safety are not actually implemented. i think it is unacceptable that, just before the regulation enters into force, the necessary elements of the system are suddenly not being prepared. in particular, there is - and my colleagues have already said it very well - the problem of the timely designation of notified bodies. that is the crux of the regulation. i think it is therefore important to make it clear that this must be implemented. the solution cannot be to postpone the date of application of this regulation, which we have fought for so long - including with the council - to be implemented. it must be ensured that the application period starts in may 2020. the commissioner's reply to the notified bodies is not enough for me. i do not see that patient safety is really guaranteed in the european union, and i would therefore like to see a clarification and, like mrs mcguinness, ask the house once again to clarify what brexit means.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. i am the only one who has said that if necessary we must take an extension of the deadlines. of course, that is not at all what i want. of course, it would be best if we had the implementation by 2020. but, my dear colleague, do you not think it would be wiser to consider extending the deadline if we were to realise that it is not working to finish on time? we all fear that the commission may not be able to complete the designation of the notified bodies in time. that's my concern.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. we now have a great task together as the european union, namely to build the infrastructure for alternative fuels. because this infrastructure is a core element of the mobility revolution that we all want to tackle, alongside the co2 legislation and a european battery cell production. the citizens of europe must be able to be sure that they will reach their destination safely with a battery-powered vehicle or a hydrogen-powered vehicle - just as they are with their petrol or diesel car today. the european commission originally wanted to set up 800 000 charging stations across europe by 2025. today we have just over 100 000 and hydrogen stations are not even mandatory in directive 2014/94, the alternative fuel infrastructure directive. i thank my colleagues in the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation. i think we have put forward a very promising report. in this we are calling for co-financing of this infrastructure with about 10% of the public sector's contribution and the rest to be raised by the industries involved. we are also asking for 2.5 billion euros to build this infrastructure, and we believe that this must be provided. this is more than three times what the commission has cautiously suggested with its 800 million. we also call for each member state to meet its own infrastructure targets. i would like to mention here again a criticism of the european commission: the national framework plans, which were persuaded just five or four years ago by industry and various member states who were keen to destroy it, have proved to be a weak instrument. they've brought almost nothing. we have always said - and we have said this with a large majority in this parliament - that we are in favour of technological neutrality. if we are complaining about technological neutrality, then i think we must also encourage the development of hydrogen charging stations and refuelling stations, not just electric ones. this is essential. it is also essential that we improve the so-called sectoral coupling. so say: the interconnection of the energy sector with the mobility sector. member states are also encouraged to give tax advantages to more climate-friendly fuels, such as electricity or green hydrogen, over diesel or petrol. we also call for a stronger decarbonisation of the shipping sector. i think we have all experienced this before, when citizens, in relation to this debate on driving bans and the like, immediately ask us why we are so focused on the car, when the big ships in the world are moving in a rather dirty way. i must give credit to those who have asked us to do so and urge the commission to introduce a regulation here too, for example, that vessels anchored at land are supplied with electricity and are not allowed to enter ports with dirty diesel engines. this is the paper we have drawn up here in the european parliament. i would like to thank all my colleagues who have contributed to this.
the commission has already done so. i would like to thank ismail ertug very much. we have both worked together before on the legislation on alternative fuels, and even then parliament was actually much more ambitious - unfortunately - than the member states, because the member states negotiated the transposition phase backwards. we really have a chicken-and-egg problem here. for example, some ships are already running on lng, but there are not enough ports where you can refuel it. there are already several alternative-powered vehicles in production, but it is not yet certain that the infrastructure is there. and unless that is guaranteed, they will not be bought and used. we want technology neutrality - ismail ertrug has emphasised this - not just e-mobility, but everything. but to do that properly, to get the products on the road, on the rail, on the water, we actually need the infrastructure. that's why it's high time. unfortunately, it is not possible to speed things up during the implementation phase and say: 'we want other deadlines'. we would have liked to have done that in the transport committee, but unfortunately we cannot. the commission is therefore calling on the member states to set up the infrastructure as soon as possible.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. the world economy is in disarray. the united states is dismantling the order it built after the second world war, and if it is trump, the rule of the strongest will prevail in the future. but trump is not the only factor in the global economy. we are dealing with several fundamental trends. firstly, the quality of international economic relations has changed in the past: trade in finished products is no longer dominated by trade in international value chains. secondly, globalisation not only leads to more prosperity overall, but also to losers - regional, sectoral and also in relation to individual groups of people. this fact is also one, but by no means the only, cause of the growing nationalism in the usa and the eu, for example. thirdly, there is a major shift in the weight of the various countries. china is the rising power, and there is no doubt that the world economic center is shifting to the east asian region. the relative weight of the us and the eu is also decreasing. it is becoming clear that china will replace the united states as the dominant economic power in the coming decades. this will be accompanied by china's attempt to rearrange the basic rules of the world economy in accordance with its interests. fourthly, the existing multilateral world order is coming under increasing pressure. the wto is not currently in a position to structure world trade. there are also other political changes. at the same time, other global problems are intensifying. i am referring here, in a very brief way, to climate change, the increase in military conflicts, the increase in global migration, poverty and malnutrition affecting hundreds of millions of people. that is why economic globalisation in the 21st century must also contribute to achieving the un's sustainable development goals. it is not enough for the eu to respond to trump by developing a strategy that merely seeks to ensure a regulated world trade through bilateral agreements with as many partners as possible. we need a more complex response, in which the advocacy of a regulated world economy is an important but only one element. the first thing to do internally is to strengthen the internal market and to combat nationalism. the eu must support europe's regions and people in the face of global structural change. key words here are comprehensive reform and strengthening of the globalisation adjustment fund, use of structural policies to strengthen competitiveness and innovation with special attention to small and medium-sized enterprises , support for employment through training, the development of trade protection instruments or targeted investment screening. the european union must also make a greater effort to find and help develop new powerful allies. i am referring in particular to economic relations with african countries, but also with the successor states of the former soviet union, including russia. but our foreign economic policy must also take seriously the postulate of value-based trade. trade is not only about increasing economic opportunities for profit, trade must also help to improve working conditions. here, ratification and compliance with the ilo core labour standard are minimum conditions and must contribute to achieving the sustainable development goals. social, labour and environmental dumping must not be a means of gaining international competitive advantage. this not only undermines acceptance by the population, but it also destroys our natural livelihoods. that is why we social democrats insist that trade agreements include comprehensive and enforceable sustainability chapters. the refusal of the commission and some member states to take this matter seriously is, in my view, a sign of incompetence for the future. a modern global economic strategy must be more than adherence to a set of rules for world trade. we also need answers to the challenges of power politics and we must always also understand world trade as an instrument for enforcing sustainability.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. there is no doubt that there is an imbalance between the large corporations and international groups on the one hand and the small producers and farmers on the other. that is why it is good that the committee on agriculture has taken this decision. it's good that we're finally trying to legislate to address this issue. but i think that in all the legitimate demands - and i think if you read the demands in detail - the committee on agriculture has gone a little overboard on some of the demands. the commission has already admitted that some of the wording is a little inaccurate. secondly, the opinion of the imco committee has been hardly taken into account. our economic committee, which is actually responsible for competition matters, was not involved at all, as far as i know. that is why it would be good if we could take it up with the house. we could then vote on it again in a few weeks. we could still use the time until the end of the year to find a solution together with the austrian presidency, because all those who have signed here also want to address the problem, not torpedo the project. but we should vote on this matter beforehand in a balanced way as a whole parliament. (applause from the centre)
mr president, as ms winberg has already pointed out, this is a very sensitive issue. this brilliant amendment from the left of this house points out the true roots of neo-fascism, and i want to emphasise this by adding the following words: ‘this affiliation between the political and societal class struggle was acknowledged by willy brandt in 1932’. (murmurs of dissent)(interjection from the president)i quote the president of international socialism: (prolonged noise)‘the socialist element in national socialism …(protests)(interjection from the president)… and the belief of their followers that subjective revolutionary basis must be acknowledged by us’. special thanks to mr bullmann.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is true that the nazi movement had a proletarian component, especially in the so-called sturmabteilung, the sa. (thunder in the hall) there was an anti-capitalist impulse, but it was anti-semitic and racist, because it was directed primarily against entrepreneurs of jewish faith. this anti-capitalist element in national socialism was over by the spring of 1933 at the latest, when ernst röhm, the leader of the sa, was assassinated and his organization was disempowered. at that time, the national socialist terror against communists, social democrats, liberals and politicians of the christian democratic centre was already in full swing. of course, willy brandt could not have known all this in 1932. that is why this quote makes sense in the context we are discussing today. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i want to ask you this, very seriously and very seriously: we are in the middle of a vote on a resolution. are you quite sure that you can allow a debate on the rules of procedure to be held on the abrogation of the vote while we are voting on a resolution? i think you should have said that at the end, but not during a vote. that is why i am asking you to go through the proper procedure. we shall now complete this vote as we have begun it, and then you can enter the procedure and ask the house what it thinks. but this vote is not going to be interrupted just because someone stands up and has an idea. that's not how it works in this house.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. i ask you, perhaps this is a problem of the wording of the rules of procedure. i agree with you that article 190 says that a vote can be cancelled and i am afraid that mr bullmann is wrong. but this is a single vote and not a change of the agenda in such a way that we do not vote at all afterwards, but that must happen before. that is why i ask that we really follow the rules of procedure. you can't just cancel the vote.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on 'a fair market for industry' (2018/2683 ((rsp)).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not i would like to comment today on a very specific point in competition law. it is good that there are rules in europe which are designed to preserve competition and therefore prohibit the merger of market leaders. but it would also be important to limit the size of companies in principle - which unfortunately is not the case - and to limit their influence and dominance in politics and the economy. but we have to consider - and this has been said a few times already - europe is not alone. that means we have to take into account the situation in the world. this is what happens all the time in our free trade agreements, in our customs agreements. it is therefore anachronistic to say that we look at the competition of firms only in the european area. let's remember that there's a whole range of products where there's only one or two, at most three companies anywhere in the world that are worth anything. take high-speed trains, take computer processors, or in the past, hard drives. in the end, there was only one company in the world that still made sensible hard drives that were best used here. let us stick to the example of trains. the fact is that siemens has been pressured to take over alstom. but even the merger of these two big companies that build high-speed trains will not be enough to out-load production, to make the investment for a new generation of such trains even worthwhile. you have to look at this globally. that means you just have to take it a step further. in short, i simply ask that the new situation created by the free trade agreements, and not only by them, be considered in the context of the competition rules, and that is the situation in the world as a whole, namely the specialisation in individual technologies. we must do that; anything else would be absurd in my opinion.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much for your remarks. i find this is very inspiring because we obviously share the same starting point: that fair competition, a level playing field – this is what we want. we don’t want harmful subsidies to be sort of smuggled in via trade. we don’t want prices to be dumped on us – that’s unfair for european industries. one thing i think is important in having this discussion, and it is that europe is the largest economy in the world. europe is an amazing place to do business. although growth is slow, it is still the highest gdp per capita, with 500 million europeans. it’s the world’s largest trading bloc, the largest trader in the world of manufactured goods and services, and we rank first in both inbound and outbound international investments. we are the top trading partner for 80 countries. just to compare, that figure is only 20 when it comes to the us. those facts shouldn’t lead to any kind of leaning back, or being self—absorbed, or think that everything is solved – on the contrary, because i completely agree that we are in times of change. but the important thing is to see what we have achieved in the european way, in strong societies with social benefits, with a tight fabric that allows people to have jobs where they can provide for their families. i think that it’s important that we take all this achievement and put that in our fight for change, for making the market, the industry and globalisation serve citizens. this is why the strategy is so manifold, because i completely agree with what is said by ms smolková and mr blanco lópez: that of course we need to work strategically at this. this is why it’s not just a matter of a fair level playing field within the european union. this is a global effort to make this happen. i also completely agree with mr martin, who says: well, we have to figure out how to enable change so that people feel that they are the masters. because if we just abandon areas that used to be the home for important industries and workplaces and leave it at that, of course, everyone gets frustrated, because you don’t see your sons and your daughters having a fair chance. and this is why, with the combined efforts of the commission, the parliament and the council, things can be put into effect. but it is not just to change, it’s also to maintain and develop our industries. and this is why we do our best to enable member states to work together on important projects of european interest. take microelectronics, take the battery alliance being built as we speak, because this shows the strength of coming together in europe when we do things together. ms krupa rightly mentioned all our small and medium—sized businesses. because when we talk about industry, it’s important not just to think about the giants, but also to think about the many smaller businesses – who are either the customers of giants or the suppliers to giants – to enable the network of european industry to work well. this is why it has been so important in the juncker investment plan to provide capital for small and medium—sized businesses, because this is one of the most under—debated issues, that you need capital in order to grow. you need access to financing, otherwise, how could you create the jobs. i think that’s a very important point in our discussion that we don’t focus on just the big ones or just the small ones, but see the network that they create and that they have the need for one another. so thank you very much also for mentioning that. mr jakovčić also rightly points to these chains that we’re in. obviously it’s very important that europe master the different crafts and that is why it is important when, for instance, shipbuilders come together to figure out how to make sure that we have a competitive shipbuilding industry in europe to deliver state of the art. there are a number of specific discussions but there are also a number of discussions that are european—wide. mr buchner talks also about trade and i’m very happy to support the work of my colleague, cecilia malmström, because what she has done over the last couple of years is basically to retire the old concept of free trade and replace that with a concept of trade agreement, where you actually have tools to say, well, i will not import despicable working conditions or animal welfare that we will not accept here. we want trade also in that to be on an eye-to-eye basis and that is the modern way to proceed. not just to say trade is just about lowering tariffs. no, trade is also about actually having reciprocity in the way things are done. that is important for us, as the commission, to enable this environment for european industry to thrive; not just the big ones – and we have big impressive industry in europe – but also all the smaller ones who are part and parcel of the creation of this europe that we live in, in which – at this point where we speak – more people than ever have a job. and with all that achievement – and with your engagement and our agreement on a level playing field and fair competition – i am certain that we have what it takes to meet this challenge and to make this change happen for the benefit of citizens and not counter it, because in that i think mr martin has the exact point; that this is now where change should be inclusive and not over people’s head, so thank you very much for this.
the debate is closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is not my group rejects this motion for today's sitting. we too deplore the death of a young man, an albanian national of the greek minority. we don't know exactly why he was there on the 28th, with a kalashnikov in his hand and a greek flag in his hand. and we don't know for sure whether it was necessary for the police to shoot this young man or whether there was another way to handle it. i would ask you, mr president, to get the information on the eu mission so that we can have a really meaningful debate here and not make a political mess. i think that is inappropriate in such a tragic situation.
the first item on the agenda is the joint debate on the report by mr miroslav poche, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2012/27/eu on energy efficiency (com ((2016) 0761 c8-0498/2016 2016/0376 cod)) (a80391/2017), the report by ms michèle rivasi and mr jakop dalunde, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the governance system of the energy union, amending directive 94/22/ec, council directive 98/70/ec, council directive 2009/31/ec, regulation (ec) no 663/2009, regulation (ec) no 715/2009, directive 2009/73/ec, directive 2009/73/ec, directive 2009/73/ec, directive 2009/77/ec on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources (a8075/eu) and council directive (eu) 2015/375/eu) and repealing directive 2013/386/eu (com (eu) no 52586) and commission directive (a86/eu) 2015/3657 (a) and council directive (a87/eu) 2015/38 (com (2016/eu) no 675/eu) and council directive (a86/eu) (a86/eu) (cod) and council directive (co (2016/27) 575/eu) (repealed by mr blanco, on the european parliament, on the proposal for a directive of the committee on the european parliament and the committee on energy union.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the commission: this clean energy package is really very well coordinated from energy conservation to the expansion of renewables to governance and also the references to emissions trading. this has not always been the case in european legislation, particularly in energy legislation. but i also want to praise us. i think that parliament has, without exaggerating, made a more intensive energy transition in important areas. the member states and regions have room to bring their very specific strengths to bear on energy production and also on energy saving. this is how we can achieve our environmental and climate goals without displacing industry and without overburdening our cities and communities. but these were very short-sighted decisions in parliament. the left side -- red, green, yellow -- wanted 40 percent energy savings. this would have slowed down the structural shift towards renewables and overburdened cities and municipalities with renovation quotas for public buildings. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the steel industry. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used in a proper manner. but climate change is also creative. the only problem is that each region must be able to contribute what it can best. the need for flexibility and security of supply is therefore more important than patronage. since 1990, the european social product has increased by 55%, and emissions have fallen by 25% in the same period, and we are happy to continue along this path in terms of environmental protection and jobs.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. this package of legislation is a major step forward in the energy transition in the european union. we are creating planning certainty for the member states, but above all for the businesses of the european union. i believe we're driving billions of dollars of investment, which will also bring innovation. if you've been to china and you've seen how they're going full steam ahead with photovoltaics, with batteries, with other green technologies, you know we should be wary. this energy package also helps research and development for efficient and better solutions in europe. i also see that we cannot replace coal-fired power stations with biomass power stations. bioenergy must not be wasted. wood and forest residues should be used for the gaps in photovoltaics and wind power, but not on a large scale as power stations, as we unfortunately have with the pellet power stations. i also see that in this great transformation, we must take everyone with us. the coal regions have been mentioned. but in the long term strategy, commissioner, we also have other social needs - in cities, in regions and among citizens. i think that the climate strategy must also correlate with a social strategy of the european union. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. saving energy also means saving costs. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and with renewable energy, we will one day have paid for the system, and then the energy will be free. the sun doesn't send a bill. that's the difference with fossil fuels, where we send billions to the sheikh in the middle east and putin in russia every year. the sun and the wind don't send bills. this is why it is beneficial for the economy as well as for each individual citizen. you're right about that.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have set ourselves the task of creating the energy union during this election period. the commission, parliament and the council have worked together very closely to this end: eight laws have been put in place. this week we are voting on an important part of the energy package. the vote would have resulted in the adoption of four of the eight laws in the package. i would like to congratulate my colleagues josé blanco lópez, miroslav poche, theresa griffin and carlos zorrinho on their achievements. but let me also say why this vote is so important: we can only achieve the european energy transition together. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. and we're voting for both this week. member states can now coordinate their energy and climate policies much more efficiently. if we then vote on the electricity market design package, we can all - symbolically - tap each other on the shoulder. we have really made a breakthrough in this parliament in the european energy transition. finally, let me express my particular satisfaction that the governance regulation addresses the problem of energy poverty in an eu legal act for the first time. i think this is a very important signal that the european energy transition is not being carried out on the backs of households, which are already suffering from the high cost of electricity. it is a signal that we are not leaving anyone behind in europe.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we had already set ourselves energy targets for 2020: 20% less energy consumption, more efficiency and more renewable energy. we are already well on our way to achieving this, and it is entirely right that we should now set ourselves further and new goals for 2030 and beyond. i would like to focus on renewable energy in particular, because there is a lot to be done. we have already discussed in the last plenary session that, for example, in transport, the infrastructure for renewable energy is on the right track, but is still far too little ambitious. bioenergy has been mentioned. it is not just about burning down forests, but also about using waste materials. we really must be able to use all the energy that is available locally. blue energy has not been mentioned at all. the sea also offers many things that can be economic in the future, such as wave energy, tidal energy, even energy that is extracted from salt and fresh water. tech-neutral, i think it should be. we need to see which region can contribute. and then we need an infrastructure to actually get the renewable energy that we produce to consumers and producers. there's a lot of work to be done. but i hope we can do this together.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. imagine if we had a world where 100 percent of the energy came from renewable sources and we used that energy so efficiently that there were no conservation problems - for example, wind power or biomass - and there were no problems with the people living there, because we limited it to the areas where it could be used and where we used it very, very efficiently. no one would think that we were digging big holes, that we were moving entire villages and then we were mining lignite. no one would have the idea that we send about 1 billion euros to mr putin and the oil sheiks every day to import oil and gas. that's why the goal should be clear to all of us. but the path is difficult: we need time, we need investment, and we need to take people along the way. that is why i think it is right that we set ourselves ambitious goals. we have considerably increased the proposals of the european commission. i'm also particularly pleased that we're doing half a percent more in efficiency than we are in renewable energy. if we do this together in a european way, it will be cheaper and easier. that is why we need european cooperation in this area. i am very pleased that we will be able to adopt the three reports in the european parliament tomorrow by a large majority.
the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area. this plan is the logical consequence of what we have developed over several years, so to speak, on the basis of the basic regulations for the common fisheries policy: the baltic sea plan, the north sea plan, western waters. of course, we must also pay close attention to the stocks in the mediterranean. there's no question about that. in the adriatic, this is a relatively well-defined catch area also geographically well-defined for sardines and anchovies, pelagic species which are also caught either by bottom trawling or by trawl. the scientific evaluations of biomass are necessary and have been carried out over many years, but they also have a tolerance range of between 20% and + 20%. we must therefore be very careful about quoting, because this will be the first time we have done so in the mediterranean. it is our common goal: maximum sustainable yield. if this quota is introduced and a drastic reduction is envisaged for the fisheries sector, for the small sector, then of course there must also be socioeconomic measures that we accompany from the emff, from the european maritime and fisheries fund: temporary closures, which will then also be compensated accordingly, catch loss premiums, which will be compensated accordingly. the member states must also take up co-financing in this area. we can then only organise a recovery plan over several years so that the stocks can then recover. this is also very important for the fisheries sector. but we do not want small-scale and artisanal fisheries to become insolvent, so to speak, we need to support them financially until the biomass is clear again and so clear that there will be good production of young fish. in this sense, i can only say that our common objective is to achieve maximum sustainable yield, to preserve jobs, but also to preserve the tourist attractiveness of these fishing ports on the adriatic. in this sense, we must approach this adriatic plan with reason.
adopted by the commission on 16 december. the commission has already made a number of proposals. we have reached a broad consensus in the trade committee that the union's trade policy must be more visible in the multiannual financial framework, including in the titles. it has a far-reaching influence on national and international economic relations and on people's daily lives, production and consumption. we want a new yardstick for the success of coherent trade policies, namely their contribution to achieving the un's 2030 sustainability goals. to this end, we recommend that sufficient resources be made available to produce improved ex ante and ex post evaluation of agreements. the partnership programme must be maintained and sufficient resources must be available to support civil society in partner countries. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. we are concerned that this task could disappear in the proposed mega-instrument for external action. and yes, we would have liked to have had our work taken more seriously by the committee on budgets.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i thank you for your speech here today. what you have said is much more sincere to our group than what our colleagues from the epp and the other left-wing groups have said. and to your address, i'll say it very clearly: if you don't know the destination, you can't find the way. president juncker presented a white paper a year and a half ago, in which he outlined five scenarios, and he promised that we would discuss these five scenarios - ranging from a limitation of the eu's powers to the establishment of a quasi-state of our own - with the citizens of the eu and then reflect the will of the citizens. i ask you: in which country has this discussion taken place on a large scale? not in germany, anyway. and if we do not know what the citizens want, then i cannot understand why some people here would claim that they speak for the majority of citizens if we now demand an increase in the budget of at least 30%. the second largest net contributor is leaving the eu, and that is a 30% increase. i would also say that we would have to rethink the structure of the budget accordingly. there are good approaches here. for example, the fact that we have one more budget line is entirely in line with our opinion. we must also address new priorities accordingly and we must provide these priorities with sufficient funding. but it also means that we keep reviewing: what have we been spending? and if we see that we still have an agricultural budget of almost 30%, that is still far too much. the eu is not threatened by famine, but it is threatened by traffic sickness, especially in the big cities. we are in danger of being left behind in digitization. we are also threatened - still - by a migration crisis. we must spend money here, but not on an agricultural budget which is simply too large and which is ultimately obsolete. the cohesion policy is a good instrument, but we should limit it to the less developed regions. i think it is a contradiction in terms that we are also supporting more developed regions through cohesion policy. finally, the eu should not give the impression that if it has enough money, it can solve all the citizens' problems. this is going to be crazy. we should make it clear that ultimately subsidiarity, ownership and good conditions are the key to a good eu. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. mr rübig, thank you for your question. in agriculture, we must see clearly: this is not a separate area in the eu, which is somehow eternal and sacrosanct. of course, you cannot reduce the average from 100 to 0. but we need a controlled decline with the possibility of using these resources that are being freed better, more efficiently, to meet the future challenges that the eu will have to face. this is particularly true of research. i mentioned digitization, and i also mentioned migration. these points are clearly more important at the moment.
the commission has already done so. the new mff, the multiannual financial framework, is a strategic decision for the next seven years of european policy, or it is not. chancellor merkel will be here this afternoon, and the german federal minister of finance, scholz, has made a very cautious proposal. it is only 1% of gdp, whereas commissioner oettinger wants much more. and parliament is of course even more ambitious if we ask for 1.3%. but the 1.12% commission is also much more than what we had at the beginning of this financial planning period. and we need it, because we have such increased expenditure. i do not agree with my predecessor on that. we must do more for education, for empowerment of young people, for solidarity in the european union. that is why the european solidarity corps was set up. but we must also use our european budget for the ecological transformation. just think of the storms now in the south of france and mallorca. we have to get away from the carbon industry, and we have to change the way we produce and the way we live. we also need the european budget for this. that's why 30% for climate change projects. we must invest more in research, we must really pool resources in defence policy, because it is a profoundly european spirit to work together. in all these policy areas, we need - as we always say in english - a commitment to change. we want to use the european budget to convince citizens that we are delivering because we are making policies that benefit them. and where are we gonna get the money? we'll have to take it out of the digital tax too. we have the new american digital companies, the biggest monopolies we've ever had, that are so rich: apple, google, facebook. and it is right that they should be taxed appropriately and that this money should go into national budgets and the european budget. we have a win-win situation and can finally put new priorities in the european budget.
the committee on agriculture and rural development adopted a resolution on the proposal for a council regulation amending regulation (eec) no 2052/88 on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. three short remarks. firstly, i am glad that we only have to debate the financial resources of the european union every seven years. sometimes it's more like dancing around the golden calf. second, whoever orders should pay. the question is: what has the european parliament done? the european parliament has done nothing but respond to the wishes of the member states, which are: no cuts in the agricultural budget, no cuts in the cohesion fund, more migration and defence policy, and now we must talk together about financing. thirdly, ladies and gentlemen of the european council, consider the parliament's decision as a powerful negotiating impulse. let's start serious negotiations about funding. parliament is ready, the commissioner for finance, mr oettinger, is ready. what is still lacking is the serious willingness of the member states. now is the time for serious work: no more sunday speeches, serious work. the citizens have a right to a stable european budget.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 november 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
federal chancellor of the federal republic of germany. mr president of the european parliament, mr antonio tajani, mr president of the european commission, mr jean-claude juncker, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. almost 50 years ago, the former german commission president, walter hallstein, called european unification an "unprecedented audacity". this was 1969, ten years before the first direct elections to the european parliament. the european community was then in its infancy. many of our greatest achievements - schengen, the single market, a common currency - were still visionary projects. but the foundations had been laid, and with them, for the first time after centuries of war and dictatorship, the citizens of europe had the prospect of a lasting peaceful and stable future. and today, i stand with joy, but also with gratitude, before the largest democratic parliament in the world. (applause from the centre) you, the 751 members from 28 countries, together represent over 500 million people; that's nearly seven percent of the world's population. we feel the heartbeat of european democracy in your house. this is evident from the debates held in 24 languages. and that shows something that makes europe, that is diversity. but it is one of the great strengths of us europeans that we have always been guided - in all our diversity - by the will to unite, by the will to compromise, and that despite our different origins and attitudes we have always reached a result for the good of the community. it is now over 11 years since i first spoke in front of this house. germany held the eu presidency in 2007. i spoke then of the diversity that unites us and does not divide us, of the freedom that must be defended again and again and that europe needs the air to breathe as man does. i spoke then of a fundamental value which is the hallmark of europe, a value which links freedom and diversity in europe. i was talking about tolerance. i have spoken of tolerance as the soul of europe and therefore an indispensable fundamental value of the european idea. but in the last 11 years we have also seen how much the world has changed and how the soul of europe has been strained along with it. the global political, economic and technological challenges were evolving faster and deeper. we have experienced a major sovereign debt crisis, international terrorism has not stopped the european union, wars and armed conflicts are taking place just a few hours' flight from here right on our doorstep, global movements of refugees and migrants also affect us europeans in a very concrete way, and digital progress is changing our way of life at a breathtaking pace. we are feeling the effects of climate change, old allies are calling into question established alliances, britain is the first country to leave the european union, the depth of the cut will be felt in these days of intense negotiations as never before, and i would like to thank michel barnier very warmly for his work. (applause from the centre) why do i say this, dear members of this house? we all feel it: it has become more difficult to predict developments. but we also sense something else: that it is becoming less and less promising to pursue your interests on the global stage alone. and that means the opposite: it is becoming more and more important for us europeans to stand together. to do this, we need more than ever in the european union to respect the other person and his interests. we need more than ever to understand that tolerance is the soul of europe, that it is an essential part of what makes us europeans, and that only with it can we develop the willingness to understand the interests and needs of the other as our own. that's the condition for getting together. (applause from the centre) this brings us to the core of european solidarity, without which successful action is unthinkable. this solidarity is based on tolerance and it is our strength as europeans, which is not found anywhere else, for three reasons: first of all: solidarity is a universal value. the european union is a community of nations, and we must not forget that we are all members of one community. this applies to the family, the village community, the sports club and a community such as the european union. solidarity is an integral part of the european treaties, it is a central part of our canon of values. solidarity is part of the european dna. we support countries and regions in their economic development or in the fight against youth unemployment, we help each other in the event of natural disasters, we support each other in the event of terrorist attacks or reactor accidents, we have opened up so-called rescue umbrellas in the european sovereign debt crisis to help the countries affected to solve their economic and financial problems. these few examples show that the individual member states of the european union and, with them, the citizens of the european union are not alone in times of difficulty and emergency. these few examples also show that individual national decisions always have an impact on the community as a whole. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in concrete terms, this means that anyone who undermines the principles of the rule of law in his own country, who curtails the rights of the opposition and civil society, who restricts the freedom of the press, not only endangers the rule of law in his own country, but also endangers the rule of law of all of us in the whole of europe. (applause from the centre) the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the european council in brussels in december last year stressed the need to strengthen the european union's economic and monetary union and to strengthen the european union's external relations. the european union is not a single currency, but a single currency. (applause from the centre) the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. the european union must be able to speak with one voice in the world. (applause from the centre) solidarity always means overcoming national egoism. i am well aware that germany has not always behaved impeccably, or in the eyes of some, behaves impeccably. for example, in the years before 2015, it took us far too long to accept the refugee issue as a matter for all the member states of the european union, including germany... (applause)... and to understand that it is a pan-european task. and from this follows the third: solidarity for the benefit of all means, in the end, acting in one's own best interests. respect and support for others and the representation of one's own interests are not contradictory - quite the contrary! an example of this is our cooperation with african countries of origin of refugees and migrants - the president has just mentioned this. this cooperation helps europe by organizing, managing and reducing the flow of refugees and migrants to europe, and it also serves the people on the ground by improving their living conditions and by helping to prevent them from making the often life-threatening journey to europe. another example is the european commitment to global climate protection, which is ecologically, economically and socially imperative for the protection of the natural foundations of life and thus for us. europe benefits from industrial and emerging countries producing less greenhouse gases together and our economies becoming greener as a whole. it is also in the interests of all europeans that the eurozone should also develop without distortions and become a haven of strength and stability. it is in the interests of all europeans that everyone should be involved in european civil protection. it is in the interests of all europeans that we help those who are particularly affected by flight and migration. it is necessary to respect the tolerance that the question of the reception of refugees in different member states provokes different reactions because of their own history, because of their own demographic development. solidarity requires that we do everything we can to find a common way of dealing with these and all other challenges as a community. so this is what europe is all about: solidarity as a universal value, solidarity as a responsibility towards the community and solidarity as a well-understood self-interest. ladies and gentlemen, unity and cohesion are essential to europe's success. i would therefore like to highlight three areas which i believe will be particularly important. firstly, foreign and security policy: we are already realizing as europeans that we can defend our interests much better wherever we act together. only as a united europe is it strong enough to be heard on the global stage and to be able to defend its values and interests. the days of relying on others unconditionally are over. this means that we europeans must take our fate more firmly into our own hands if we are to survive as a community. (applause and cheers) and that means that in the long run, europe needs to become more capable of acting in foreign policy. we must therefore be prepared to rethink our decision-making procedures and to renounce unanimity more and more where the treaties allow it and wherever it is possible. (applause from the centre) i have proposed that we set up a european security council with rotating membership of the member states, where important decisions can be prepared more quickly. and we must create a european intervention force with which europe can also act on the spot. we have made great progress in structured cooperation in the military field. that is good and is widely supported here. but we should - and i say this very consciously, also from the developments of the last few years - work on the vision of one day creating a real european army. (applause from the right)
federal chancellor of the federal republic of germany. because jean-claude juncker said four years ago that a common european army would show the world that there would never again be war between european countries. and this is not an army against nato - i beg you - but it can be a good addition to nato. no one wants to question classic connections, but in a ... (loud applause) but, ladies and gentlemen, it would be much easier to cooperate with us if we had more than 160 defence systems, weapons systems, and the united states only had 50 or 60. if we need to have our own administration, supervision and training for everything, then we are not an efficient partner, and if we want to use our money efficiently and yet fight for the same objectives, then we can act together in nato with a european army. i see no contradiction in that at all. (applause from the centre and the right) and that , of course , includes ... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution) look, i'm looking forward to it. i'm not gonna let you get to me. i come from a parliament too. what's up? (applause from the centre and the right) the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this also means - and this is a difficult task, also for the federal republic of germany - that we must develop a common policy on arms exports, because otherwise we cannot act in a uniform way in the world. secondly, ladies and gentlemen, it is a question of europe's economic success. it is the foundation of our strength and the prerequisite for our being heard in the world at all. if we are not economically strong, we will not be politically influential. i am very pleased that the jean-claude juncker programme, the investment fund, has had a significant impact in recent years and that we have already started 350 or 340 billion of the 500 billion euros of investment by 2020 - a good programme for more investment. i know how many times the demand for more investment has come from your house, and it is on its way. we should also talk about this, because 340 billion is not a piece of paper, but a real contribution to greater prosperity in europe. and of course, a stable prosperous europe also means a stable economic and monetary union. we want to develop the european stability mechanism, we are working on banking union, we are working on a eurozone budget. i think that this should be linked very closely to the medium-term financial perspective and we are in favour of liability and control going hand in hand. in other words, banking union and later a european deposit guarantee scheme require that risks in the national states have been reduced beforehand. it is a combination of two things: european solidarity and own responsibility are always two sides of the same coin. but we here in the european council - at any rate germany is in favour of this - will be presenting, together with france, visible results by december. we will also make progress on a subject which is being discussed very intensely these days, and in which you are very much involved, namely digital taxation. germany is not asking whether we need to implement digital taxation - in the age of digitalisation this is self-evident - but we are asking how exactly we do it. i believe that it is part of democratic practice to take note of the commission's proposals, but also to add something to them. we believe that the best thing to do is to find an international solution in an international context. we'll take the minimum tax. but if that does not work, we cannot wait until st. nimmerlein day, but then we must act in a european manner, and germany is committed to that. (applause from the centre) if we're honest and we look to the future and we think about our prosperity, then we have to accept that it's no longer the case today that the great innovations -- as was the case 100 and 130 years ago -- always or mostly come from europe, but it's the case today that a lot of the fundamental innovations come from asia, from the united states of america. so, of course, the question is: as the continent where the car was invented, will we also be the continent that determines the mobility of the future? and what worries me is that we can't make battery cells, for example. chinese companies investing in germany now, that's okay. but i think we should make a great effort to be able to master the drive technology of the future in europe and to make battery cell production possible here again. (applause from the centre) we have the european instruments for this. we've got it all under control, just like we do with the chips today. we need to be at the forefront of quantum computing, we need to develop a common strategy for artificial intelligence. all this is still possible because we have a strong industrial base in europe. we can build on that, and we must use that now. research and innovation are therefore central to our future prosperity. the third area, ladies and gentlemen, which i would like to raise is the issue of refugees and migration. in the euro crisis we have already had to overcome many obstacles in order to arrive at a common solution. but we did it. but on the issue of refugees and migrants, europe is not yet as united as i would like it to be. and since this is a central issue in our relations with our neighbours, we must find common ground here. and that's where we've made progress. we all agree that we need a common european border guard. in retrospect, it was certainly a bit reckless, let me say, to create a schengen area of free movement, but now we are only working on getting an entry and exit register to know who is with us and who is leaving us again. but it's right that we do it now. it is right that we develop frontex. the commission's proposals are good in my opinion. again, the point is: if everyone wants to retain their national responsibilities and no one wants to give the european border guard force any responsibilities, then no matter how big and how good it is, it will not be able to do its job. here too we must do away with national competence and act together. (applause from the centre) we also have to consider: how can we share the work of development aid, development cooperation, economic development in africa? there are now excellent results - that would not have been possible two or three years ago - where we are working with individual member states and the commission in individual african countries, and thereby achieving greater added value than if we all went there individually. there is a lot more to learn here, but i think we are on the right track. the commission is also proposing to develop a common european asylum procedure. if everyone makes their choices differently, then it is not surprising that people from a particular country know this immediately and then secondary migration occurs naturally in the area of free movement. we must make the effort, as we are developing a common level playing field for the internal market, to develop common standards also in such sensitive matters as the right of asylum and humanitarian responsibility. otherwise we will not be able to cope with the task of flight and migration. (applause and cheers) ladies and gentlemen, now, those were three examples out of many, and the fact that i hit the nail on the head is evident in the protest. that's nice and honorable. (applause from the centre) i think that people want europe to tackle precisely those problems that are burning in their noses. the people want a europe that gives answers to the questions that weigh us down. that does not mean that europe has to be everywhere. it is still true that not every problem in europe is a problem for europe. solidarity does not mean being everywhere. but solidarity means that europe acts where it is needed and that it can then act strongly and decisively and effectively. i am convinced that europe is our best chance for lasting peace, for lasting prosperity, for a secure future. our meeting in paris at the invitation of the french president to commemorate the horrors of world war i a hundred years ago should have made us aware once again of what happens when nations fail to respect one another and what happens when communities such as the league of nations, which was founded in the aftermath of world war i, fail. there was an even greater horror. (applause from the centre) that is why we must not squander this european opportunity. we owe it to ourselves, we owe it to past generations, and we owe it to future generations. that means that nationalism and selfishness must never again have a chance in europe. (applause from the centre) it is tolerance and solidarity that are our common future. the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area.
president of the european commission. the european union is a great example of this. i am in total agreement with what you have said here. i am only surprised that two thirds of this house are not here when the maltese, latvian and lithuanian prime ministers are speaking here and saying exactly what you have said here. standing ovations for the chancellor are easy. i am missing those when others speak and say the very same things, so thanks to this house for having discovered the same dignity of equal nations in europe. (applause) i would like to thank
the commission is also responsible for the implementation of the budget. mr president, they cannot resist the pleasure of doing as parliament does. i have very much liked what you said yesterday. multilateralism is part of the dna of the european union. what you have said on the migration question is exactly what the european commission proposed years ago. übrigen war der beifall heute größer als die unterstützung vieler, als i have said, dass angela merkel i have said das in october 2015 jemand ist, der sich in richtung der zukünftigen geschichte bewegt. i have said that angela merkel is the one who is moving in the direction of the future. the story will give you the right. not everyone in this house has ever seen that. but you were right, that you have not closed the borders. (beifall) the csu-applaus could be less spärlich, als er es heute war. the csu-applaus is a political and economic union, and it is not a political union. (laughter) in the case of brexit, we are swimming in the same channel. we want no punitive action against the united kingdom. french, german, dutch, english, french, italian but i'm not swimming in your direction i'm swimming in exactly the opposite direction! but we have to respect the vote of the british people. it is our duty to make the best of it, in the interest of britain, in the interest of the european union. we are not in an aggressive mood when it comes to the future relationship with britain. the european union, the continent, has to recognize that britain, starting in 1939, was playing a major role when it came to liberty and the freedom of this continent. we are grateful for that ... (applause) i would like to thank you. but this is no reason to abandon the great history between the islands and the european union. in fact, i think that leaving is a tragedy, a historical error, a mistake, and we have to make the best of it and the commission, together with michel barnier, is moving in that direction. (beifall) also, everything in all, frau bundeskanzlerin, liebe angela: that which you have borne yesterday, meets the heart of this, was we do. the commission's initiatives in the field of migration, africa and euro-reform are perhaps a little more robust. if you do more than you've already done, you'll be even bigger, and that's a performance. (beifall and buhrufe)
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. i would like to begin with a quote: 'the unity of europe was a dream of a few. it has become a hope for many, and it is a necessity for all of us today. it was konrad adenauer, the first chancellor of the federal republic of germany, who coined this phrase. i'm not going to let you down. in your office you have a large picture of konrad adenauer, and you are in the tradition of german chancellors who, in their knowledge of the history of the federal republic of germany and of germany as a whole, have always known that germany can only prosper if it is united in friendship and partnership with its neighbours. it is thanks to this pro-european attitude of the german chancellors - von adenauer, brandt, schmidt, kohl, merkel and many others - that the unthinkable has been made possible in recent decades, because the largest country has made a substantial contribution to this europe. i am 46 years old and i belong to the first generation on this continent to be able to say that it is entitled to live in peace and freedom throughout europe. they belong to a generation that was also allowed to live in peace, but which was imprisoned for much of its life behind the iron curtain. my grandfather was part of the war generation. the unthinkable has been achieved, partly because of the german contribution, partly because of your contribution, madam chancellor. i would therefore like to begin by thanking you warmly for your clear pro-european stance. (applause from the centre) but what does this work mean today? i would like to thank you for stressing that pro-europeanism means first of all seeing the other, seeing the other's problem. for example, in the euro crisis you stood in germany and explained to the germans what the internal market means and called for solidarity with other countries, and in the ukraine issue, when russia again moved its borders militarily on this continent - for the first time since the second world war - you said: we europeans must stand together and must give a united response that violations of international law will not be tolerated. and it is that last summer, jean-claude, i have it in my speech script angela merkel made it clear that you cannot close borders unilaterally, but only in dialogue with the neighbours can problems be solved. i would like to thank you for this commitment, for this way of making policy, for overcoming selfishness, for seeking the partnership. and, of course, we are in challenging times. i would like to argue today primarily in terms of method, not of content, because we discuss a lot, but in terms of method. the first is that we need a new will in europe to take responsibility. we've discussed this several times here. in the council, the council of ministers, in particular, regularly votes in favour with a 95% or 90% approval rate, and then when they are at home they do not know about it, they even vote against it, they even protest. we have to stop this black peter game. i would like to give a positive example today: spain, for example, has never known an anti-european force. why is there no anti-european force in spain? because politicians like mariano rajoy, in the crisis, did not blame brussels or attack it for the mistakes, but mariano rajoy said: we spaniards have a responsibility for the country, we must take it on and do our homework. so let us stop shifting the responsibility to brussels! europe will be much better off. (applause from the centre) we must give europe a chance to succeed. only then will we reach the hearts of the people. there were many speakers at the podium who spoke about the successes of their country in economic policy. europe is on the right track. and that is why we can also emphasise that the initiatives of the european commission, of jean-claude juncker, have also led to our economic strength. we can only win the people if we also give europe success. the third point i want to make about this method is this: ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! brexit has shown us that the argument 'i want to have my sovereignty back' works, that it falls on fertile ground. we need a new approach to building the bridge between people and the european decision-making process. i do not think that this requires a new franco-german axis, but a genuine european parliamentary democracy. this parliament is the political map of europe. here is your party, the cdu, here is syriza in greece, here is the front national in france, here are the liberals in belgium, here are all the political forces of this continent. and if decisions are taken here, if discussions are held here in the place of european democracy, then there must be consequences. for example, a few months ago this house decided to suspend for the time being the talks on turkey's accession to the european union because of the difficulties in the current state of the talks. i think that there must be consequences in everyday life if this house comes to such decisions in such a cross-party unity. i would like to make one thing clear: parliament is already a powerful chamber, but it lacks a right, namely the right of initiative, which every parliament knows. we know that it is a big task to change the lisbon treaty. and that is why i want to make it clear - you know, i was nominated last week as the leading candidate of the european people's party - that if i become president of the commission, i want to promise that legislative initiatives of this european parliament will also be presented by the commission in the future, an indirect right of initiative of the promise by the european commission that this parliament will get the right of initiative that it needs. (applause from the centre) finally, europe needs ambition. i grew up in the political '90s. there was helmut kohl, the chancellor, who told the germans: we are abolishing the deutsche mark and introducing the euro - a topic that was not popular in the federal republic of germany at the time. he did it because he believed in the future, because he thought across decades. and that is why i am grateful to be sitting in my seat today, because you have underlined the ambition for foreign and security policy. if we move towards a european army, if we move away from unanimity and towards the principle of majority voting, then this european union can become not only the economic giant that we are today, but it can also become a political giant that can assert our values and interests globally. we hope so, and therefore, good luck in your term of office, and in helping to achieve these political objectives together! (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. madam chancellor, i would like to extend a warm welcome to you from the socialist group here in the european parliament, the house of european democracy. i ask my colleagues to understand that when the german chancellor is speaking to us here, i want to speak a moment about germany before we talk about europe. it was very impressive to see in the last few days how much dignity was shown to the dead of the first world war - here in germany, in france, in britain, in belgium, everywhere where people saw the traces of this global catastrophe, which also triggered the second world war. i would add that in germany we remember and have remembered the brave men and women of kiel who refused to obey an order a hundred years ago. the sailors' revolt, the revolt of soldiers and sailors who refused to go to the sea battle that the generals thought was decisive and that set the stage for the end of the first world war. one of those important democratic moments in german history, of which we are proud and which we perhaps take too little care: the revolution of 1918, the speech of otto wels in 1933, with which the entire social democratic group opposed hitler's law on empowerment by the fascists, the 17 june 1953 in the gdr and, yes, also the peaceful revolution of 1989, which was also a milestone in your personal experience and career. what i want to say is that we germans must be aware of how closely the fate of our nation is linked to our homeland, to europe, and that we must never forget this, and that it concerns all peoples, but one thing in particular, that we cannot afford to fail. and that we germans, let me say this as a german social democrat: we germans have no right to fail when it comes to europe - much less than anyone else, with the background of our history and with the mission to our future. it also means that any hesitation, any small-mindedness is already leading us down the wrong path. i would like to draw up a picture to make my point clear, madam chancellor. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. but i am afraid that the expectation is deeper, europe's expectation of us germans is deeper: please contribute your strength to give europe strength. this is what europeans expect of germany. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. let me recall a picture from the recent past: it was a commission president barroso from your party family who suggested that, in the face of the financial crisis, we should pursue a community policy, launch a community initiative. what has emerged, under pressure from mr schäuble, and under pressure from you, is indeed an intergovernmental action, ending in the troika. we have had many debates here about why the results were not good in many ways, because they were not democratically controlled, because they were not controlled by the european parliament, because it was in many ways the policy of bureaucrats. we have to change that. i am in favour of drawing two conclusions as soon as possible, and i ask for your support in this. firstly, the community method must be strengthened. the european house of democracy must be in charge of our future success. (applause from the centre) and the second: yes, absolutely, we social democrats entered into a coalition agreement in berlin because we wanted to make europe strong. the european part of the coalition agreement must be fully implemented as soon as possible. this applies to the european monetary fund, it applies to the deepening of economic and monetary union, it applies to the fact that germany must take the lead in climate protection, and it also applies to the fact that we are making progress in social policy - for example, with the framework directive on safe working conditions - that the mandate is not blocked by the european people's party, but that we can make it clear to precarious workers where europe stands and that it is helping them. these days, unfortunately, we do not know enough about what the european people's party stands for. we are not sure whether it is the european people's party of commission president juncker. is it - and this will also be a problem for manfred weber - is it the european people's party that is your european political speech? or is it the european people's party of mr kurz, the president of the council, who is about to turn his back on the united nations migration pact - which i consider shameful and which will be a major step backwards, also for europe - who is deploying heavy military equipment on the border with slovenia? or is it the european people's party of mr orbán, who is shutting down the media, expelling the european university from his country and agitating against refugees? (applause) what does this great party of konrad adenauer and robert schuman stand for? what is it worth, and where does it stand in political discourse? i would like to stress that we must invest all our courage and energy to move europe forward - the sustainable, the solidarity-based, the just europe, where everyone has his or her chance and opportunity. i can say that for the men and women of my group europe is not a speck on the map. europe is for us an attitude, a commitment to freedom and democracy and tolerance. thank you, and good luck and success in your work. there's still a lot to do. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. thank you very much for coming to strasbourg to take part in our debate on the future of the european union. i must say that i am happy to do so, because i too want to remember what a great gesture of reconciliation you have made in the last few days. you reminded us - together with macron - that we had the armistice in 1918, that this armistice ended one of the greatest catastrophes, and that the european union is the greatest peace project in the world. we have together torn down walls in the european union and united the countries of europe. we have advanced in freedom and democracy and overcome nationalist blindness. europe is very important to us greens. we want a strong and united europe, a europe in which we all work together constructively for our future. we want a europe which protects human rights and defends the rule of law with all the necessary consistency. europe must be strong against the enemies of democracy, against the resurgence of the nationals of law. we want a europe which promotes social cohesion and offers people jobs and prospects. we also want a europe which taxes the digital giants at least as much as the baker around the corner. we want a europe which is committed to world peace and which stops exporting arms to saudi arabia. we want a europe that is at the forefront of climate action and protects our livelihoods. the future of the european union, madam chancellor, is also in your hands. but unfortunately the federal government, your federal government, is consistently on the brakes when it comes to europe. for example, the climate crisis is one of the biggest challenges of our time, if not the biggest. we are destroying the planet we live on with our eyes open, and the world climate council has just written that in our book of records. in a few weeks' time the eu will have the duty to move forward in katowice, because this is the last decade in which we can still change course. but the objectives set so far are far from sufficient. two things we need to address urgently: this includes a minimum price for co2. some member states are already considering whether they cannot do this together. i ask: will germany, will the federal government join in? one of these is that car manufacturers urgently need to reduce the co2 emissions of their fleet. but unfortunately, germany has ensured that the council buries an ambitious goal. is this what germany's contribution to climate protection looks like? because the climate cannot be saved by vague declarations of intent and glacier photos. we need concrete, ambitious targets for europe and rapid implementation. instead, the german government has simply buried the climate targets it set itself and is the brake on european climate policy. this is a real catastrophe for europe, for the coasts and for the island states, for the whole planet. germany is certainly not the only country in the eu with a climate reality problem. but it's the biggest, with the biggest responsibility, and that weighs heavily. the fact that germany is also constantly violating european environmental laws, such as clean water and clean air, underlines the problem. climate change and renewable energy are also helping to achieve energy independence. a natural gas pipeline from russia to germany, on the other hand, is cementing the dependence on fossil fuels and damaging the interests of poland and ukraine. nobody needs this pipeline except maybe gerhard schröder and vladimir putin. (applause from the centre) another example: the eurozone. for eight years we have known that the eurozone is not as stable as it should be. what happened since then? a half-banking union, little stability pact and - sorry - a relatively small investment fund. he's got a lot of growing to do. it's not enough. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. the european parliament has said what has to be done. the commission president has made proposals and so has the french president. you don't have to find them all right, okay. but to stick your head in the sand and hope that this will somehow sort itself out, that is apolitical, and that is irresponsible. the next crisis is already pre-programmed. why do you not sit down with macron and the other colleagues and put forward a proposal for reform of the eurozone? why is the federal government silent? this is about the future of our entire union. and another example: tax justice. the federal government is blocking this too. together with the governments of the last remaining tax havens in the eu, such as the netherlands, luxembourg and austria, you are ensuring that the much-needed transparency in the tax system does not come about. they ensure that corporations can continue to exploit tax loopholes and that member states lose €17 billion in revenue each year. we must put an end to this blockade. the european union is a global player in the fight against climate change. if the largest member state is on the brakes, we cannot move forward. we need a breakthrough for europe. you said: europe is worth striving for. if you're serious about this, then act! right now, or you'll never live up to your end of the speech. europe needs people who are leading the way - in big and small, symbolic and practical, courageous and determined. (applause from the centre)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. one hundred years after the end of the first world war and more than 60 years after the signing of the treaties of rome - that is, last year - the process of european integration should have actually progressed further, at least to the extent that - as you have said - national egoism, autocracy in europe are excluded. and i would add, there is also a new bloodshed. i'm not sure that's going to be a fully automatic way. if today we were talking about the need to revive the european dream, i would say yes, but please do so in such a way that the european dream does not become a nightmare. i would therefore like to say a few things about some of the points which i am also criticising on behalf of my group, but also a few other things, because the reality is quite different from what you have described here. you know the line, madam chancellor: "risen from the ruins and looking to the future". the lesson of the two world wars of the last century, which have cost the lives of millions of people, is that war must never again be waged on german or european soil. make peace with fewer and fewer weapons, make swords into plowshares, didn't these demands apply to every kind of arms race at every time? what have you done in the 13 years that you have been chancellor of germany - i have to ask you this, i'm sorry - to stop german and european arms exports to crisis and conflict zones? in the event of doubt, the interests of the arms companies always prevail over values such as human rights and democracy. i would also like to disagree with you on the following point and say to you clearly and unequivocally: please do not follow macron on the road to a european army, to a military union! keep in mind that some other eu countries have a more relaxed approach to the colt than germany will ever have. the german parliament has reservations, and that is a good thing. the fact that it has been used again and again and has become an effective instrument is due to the peace movement in germany, in europe, but also to the greens, the left and the social democrats and many others, and this is not automatically transferable to the eu. we call on you to do much more politically and diplomatically to preserve and extend existing disarmament agreements between the superpowers. it is in your hands to stop german arms exports and to reach eu agreements so that weapons are not supplied from eu member states to military conflict zones. we call on you to finally allow the social union. it is wrong, as you said a few years ago, to say that social policy is exclusively national policy. if we fail to create a social union instead of a military union, then we may have other consequences, and then it will not be brexit. i personally don't want that. mrs. merkel, you have been sworn in as climate chancellor. it is about the minimum ecological standards. we call on you to break the deadlock in the council! that applies to all that has been said so far. i would also point out that we expect the federal government to play a different role in the country-by-country reporting of group balance sheet data. what this is about is that we finally take on tax avoidance, tax fraud by the big corporations, and that we free up money for the tasks that are actually necessary. they have replaced the community method, which includes parliament, by the so-called intergovernmental method. it was essentially your share. we're asking you to undo that. the european parliament must be made co-responsible for these tasks, and it must not simply be a matter of which agreement can be concluded between two states, one of which may be dependent on the other. that does not strengthen democracy, that does not strengthen trust. there is no excuse for the way greece has been treated, mrs merkel. and even if wolfgang schäuble took on the role of mephisto, you let yourself be led astray and watched as life in greece was destroyed. austerity and austerity dictates have been mephisto's magic potion. the blackmail of sovereign member states and massive interference with basic democratic social rights have put people in existential distress. this has led to a massive loss of confidence in recent years. and i would like to point out to you: correct that! we need an end to all forms of austerity. and with italy in mind , i can only recommend: yes, there was a proposal from the bundesbank to issue bonds to the rich in italy so that they could pay their debts. a great proposal redistribution, but please in all member states of the european union! we will then no longer have to talk about whether the maastricht treaty or the fiscal compact will be respected, and we will really have a basis for freeing up money for education, for social matters, for many other things we need. and finally, on the refugees, you have earned a lot of global recognition for not closing the borders. but why do you close your eyes to dying in the mediterranean? this can't be happening! they must be committed to ensuring that we have legal means, that solidarity is actually shown in all the member states, that we as the european union really live up to the values we have proclaimed, that we live them every day.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: we have so much in common in europe, yet at the moment almost everything seems to separate us. europe is our christian-cultural home home of our families. europe is home to a unique scientific society, the most successful economic model in the world. madam chancellor, you are europe's past, and today and here you are saying goodbye. it is appropriate to tell you something about the future, because our aim is not a european empire but a europe of the fatherlands. german government policy has shaped the euro and economic union in breaking the stability criteria such as the abuse of the ecb for state financing, in bank financing and in interfering in the budgets of sovereign states. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. german government policy has shaped energy and transport policy. whether you're trying to get out of nuclear and coal power at the same time, or now fighting diesel. they have set the childishly naive morality of conservation of resources against science and the principle of moderate governmental control. german government policy has eroded the foundation of christian europe, the family, by inventing countless gender identities, by applying the concept of marriage to any sexual partnership, by separating children from their biological parents, by the state's sovereignty over classic parenting, moral education and many other outrages. they have set childishly naive morality and arbitrariness against natural law and the christian principle of the family. (interruption) german government policy has tolerated, encouraged and triggered the largest migration movement in recent history. it began with a human emotion. the loss of control and over-requirement of state institutions, the loss of control of the education system, the security organs, the social systems and the over-requirement of the population followed. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mrs merkel, every single german, every single european is acting morally when he personally supports the greeks. many have done so. every german, every european, acts morally when he spares resources. a lot of people do. the german people, the europeans, have no other moral option than to tolerate cohabitation outside the traditional family. almost everyone does this. it is a deeply moral act for every german and every european to protect people in need from persecution. many do this. but, madam chancellor, a state which saves states, a state which is responsible for the flow of electricity and which fights against individual traffic, a state which declares every form of human coexistence to be a family, a state which believes that it can help every person in the world at any time, such a state suffers from megalomania. he overestimates his abilities, he's supposed to protect everything and in the end, nothing. if europe is not to fall apart, but to become a model of success again, then economic and monetary policy must be designed in the sense of a professor and not planned in office, energy and transport policy must be conceived in a european way and not in large-city latte-macchiato kitchens, the christian family image must be brought to life instead of being fulfilled by quotas-gender professors, identity and christian cultural significance must be regained outside the borders instead of fantasizing about cultural destruction. our europe of foundations is built on responsibility, identity, christian culture and science. their legacy is marked by destroyed institutions. two unions, and you can listen to this, ladies and gentlemen of the cdu, two unions, you leave the european and the christian democratic union in a very bad state. restoration is for others. my promise won't calm her down, but we'll do it. europe will be free and conservative again.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. i'm sorry, i didn't have a speech planned. i only asked for the time to speak because otherwise it would have fallen to udo voigt of the npd, ... (applause)... wait, let me finish! i despise small parties that are less than 1% and not very serious. i do not want to say much about that. we met here for the last time at the farewell of helmut kohl. now, i'll see you at your farewell. i would like to start by saying that i am becoming more and more sympathetic to you the more i see people following you in the cdu in the coming months and years. i'd like to ask you, if you leave, to hand over our land to the bezenrein, that would be nice. and now you can go. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
federal chancellor of the federal republic of germany. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking the colleagues for their contributions to my speech and, in view of the comments made by mr juncker and mr weber, who have once again raised the subject of britain, i believe that it is extremely important, in my view, to accept and shape the spirit in which the united kingdom's departure is being shaped. i regret the decision of the british people, but it must be respected. i thanked michel barnier for that and i can also thank jean-claude juncker because i believe that the spirit in which we do this will determine for decades to come the way in which we can have a partnership. and the uk has made it clear through theresa may that they remain part of europe. there will be a multitude of ways of cooperation in which we can work together. and that's exactly what we're going to do. i say this on behalf of the german government. i would like to make a few brief comments on some of the issues that have been raised. the one issue, which is perhaps also one related to the fact, mr legutko, that germany is a country with 80 million inhabitants and an economically strong country, that we may have to be more careful than others when representing our interests. but we have interests, too. and we don't always agree with everyone, and they don't always agree with us. i would just like to point out that germany - this is not a very good piece of paper - has about 90 cases before the european court of justice, and we have accepted all the judgments, even if we do not like them. we know that we have our differences of opinion. i know that even my friends in the epp have a different opinion on nord stream. i personally believe that we will use more gas to shape climate change, especially in a country like germany, which will have no nuclear energy in a few years' time and which is therefore already making a considerable contribution to climate protection with its strongest pillar of energy supply, renewable energies. but if we want to get off coal, we're going to have to use more gas for a while. and that means that this gas import should also be diversified. but we won't rule out russia as a source. i am very much in favour of ukraine not being excluded as a transit country. but whether the gas we need more comes through nord stream, through ukraine, through turk stream, it is always russian gas molecules. europe will not be able to become independent of russian gas, but it can diversify its sources. and that is why i can tell you that germany will also build an lng terminal to respond to other possibilities of gas importation when other sources dry up. but if we say, we can get out of nuclear power, we should get out of coal, we're going to build natural renewable energy, then we need some more, and that's going to be gas for a while. secondly, a subject which has been raised here repeatedly: the community method and the intergovernmental method. i would like to say that the community method has been strengthened by germany time and again and will continue to be strengthened. but at the moment we are in a situation in the european council where it has almost been said that the european treaties can never be changed again. i am quite frank with you: if you take this position, europe will become a petrified structure, so to speak. a community which must respond to new challenges must also be able to adapt its treaties to the realities of the world. (applause from the centre) and that is why i cannot see that you are taking the position that we are not changing the treaties. but if you want to act in a european way and the treaties do not yet give you the competence, i have always been in favour of the esm being included in the eurozone protocol to the lisbon treaty. it's not up to germany. we can do it tomorrow. it is not easy to get a majority in the european council. but if we cannot do that, then we must also take intergovernmental action as a preliminary to joint action. it would have been even worse if we had done nothing at all on monetary union. and that's why one doesn't exclude the other. i am particularly pleased that the commission has taken the initiative in this area. because if we did that at home and said: 'we will never change our constitution again', then we would also be a nation state that does not live up to its responsibilities. which brings me to the point you made about whole groups being interchangeable. i think you know as well as i do that they're far from interchangeable. but i do not know of any nation state which is not based on a common platform such as a constitution or, in our case, a basic law adopted by a two-thirds majority or more, and which nevertheless disputes every legislative proposal within that common platform. and when it comes to the foundations of the european union, fortunately there is a large group in this parliament which agrees on the foundations. this is the foundation of the cohesion of a community. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. (applause from the centre) now to the question: what role should germany play? look, you want two things at once. they want us to be the first to have a vision, with france for example, but also to guarantee that the vision will become reality, so that the european council, with 28 votes, soon 27 votes, will unanimously adopt everything. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i may be a little reluctant to formulate goals. i am in favour of this because the people at home want what we say to be implemented in the end. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. because otherwise, the vision and my own idea - i can imagine many other things, i was just talking about contract changes - and what we actually deliver will fall apart. and that needs to be held together. i would say that germany has always played a role and will continue to play a role in formulating ambitious objectives, but also in ensuring that there is respect for others who do not always pursue the same things. that is part of the european union. and then a word on migration, because i have a limited time to speak: we are all proud of our values, and europe is built on them. article 1 of our german constitution states: "the dignity of the human person is inviolable". now, there is a terrible civil war on our doorstep and a huge challenge is taking place through isis, through islamist terror. mrs. zimmer, i'll just use the example of the yazidis to tell you what the federal government thought when we decided: do we support the peshmerga with weapons to prevent the destruction of a people, or do we not support them? we decided we were going to support them, and i think it was the right decision, even though it wasn't easy. (applause from the centre) and i'll tell you something else: we've now built a very close migration partnership with niger. it's one of the poorest countries in the world. there are the terrorists from mali, who are well armed because of the failure of the international community in libya, and then there are the terrorists from boko haram in nigeria. and to this president from niger, i say. you know, we could still imagine giving your soldiers shoes. we could still imagine training them a little, but when it comes to arming your soldiers so they can fight the terrorists, unfortunately germany is not there. the world bank is not involved. we have all, including those in european development aid, sometimes put our heads in the sand. this is not how we get respect. i still think it's better that we support african soldiers who are willing to fight their terrorists, but that can't end with the shoebox. i'll say the same. (applause from the centre) or we say, "that's what our french friends do". that's not fair. and now, on to migration. so we had a civil war and we still have it in syria. we have a terrorist islam, and we have six million refugees outside of syria and iraq. these six million, or maybe even seven million people are being taken in by lebanon, jordan, turkey. we have - and i said this in germany at the beginning of this parliamentary term, also as my mistake, my miscalculation, my failure - not paid enough attention to whether these people in their refugee camps had at least a dollar for food and some form of education. and with that, the refugees came to us because they fought for their lives. and now all of europe has 500 million people at the end of the six million syrians and probably one to two million iraqis i don't have that in my head right now we have taken in one to 1.5 million people and helped them in a dramatic situation, just as many europeans were helped in other times. do you really think that's something that can render us, so to speak, incapable of action? (applause from the centre) we have to make sure that we get out of the cycle of illegal migration, where people have given all their money to the smugglers, that we get out of it. that's why i signed the eu-turkey deal and i've been criticized a lot for turning illegal migration into legal migration, to get told by unhcr which people we should help. that's our common goal. but we weren't prepared for it, and now we have to learn. and that's why we created frontex, that's why we have mission sophia to save people, that's why we have a partnership with africa, that's why we are building the libyan coast guard, that's why there's a libyan conference in palermo today. i only wish that the europeans would develop a unified policy on libya, so that the poor affected do not hear two different things all the time. that's part of it. but it is also clear that we cannot simply leave the field where we have not been involved enough. i think we should also be proud to say that we have learned from our mistakes and will do things differently in the future. and that includes the partnership with africa. now the last part, with climate protection. i already said something about the gas. we're on track to meet our climate goals, and we've set ourselves very ambitious targets for 2020. we're going to try to do as much as we can and really achieve our 2030 climate goals through a climate bill. mrs. keller knows that, too. finally, perhaps as a final point, it was wolfgang schäuble, in his presidency of the g20, who ensured that these tax avoidance matters were largely restricted by an international agreement on beps. that's being implemented right now. i think that is why germany has made a very good contribution to this. (applause from the centre)
i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. thank you for working with us to keep the european union together for so many years. i think that the need for this has already been made clear in today's debate. in preparing for today's sitting, we have seen how the socialists are blaming you on twitter for the fact that in many member states the consequences of the euro crisis, which was caused in the first place by the debt policy of many leftwing governments, have not yet been overcome. we are grateful to you that, thanks to christian-democratic policies on the one hand and solidarity on the other, the situation in spain, portugal and ireland is much, much better again, that the people there are doing well again. i would be grateful if we could also thank you for the important role that your federal government has played in these last years. second, guy verhofstadt, who is the head of the fbi. he touched on many subjects. we remember him as the leading candidate for the liberals in the back room in 2004. he was then the top candidate in the 2014 top candidate process, and now he wants to stop the top candidate process again. we are grateful to you for your clear commitment to manfred weber and for the fact that together with you we are bringing more democracy and more parliamentarism to the european union and giving citizens the choice to do so. (applause from the centre)
i'm not going to let you down. we're from the same country. we know the mood and the debate in germany. since i have been involved in european politics, i have always heard that germany is the biggest payer in the european union. we know that word can be very poisonous. it also shows reflexes that we're more defensive of new ideas, and always saying, "what's it going to cost us?" what do you think we have to do to tell the germans that we are the winners of european unity? i would say that we need to make another offensive, especially before the european elections, to convince the citizens that we are really benefiting. others do too, but we do it to a special degree. i see that against many proposals such as deposit insurance funds, bank resolution funds, unemployment reinsurance - no matter what ideas come - immediately the pavlovian dog comes: this costs money, this is a transfer union, we do not participate. they've called for solidarity. we must go along with it and not always refuse. (applause from the centre)
mr president, madam chancellor, i would like to thank you for your kind words. thank you very much for your really valuable speech and for your clear words. i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals, but i would like to say that i am not going to go into the details of the commission's proposals. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's why i can only say that your words were all the more valuable. i would just like to make one request: in addition to the important future issues you have raised here today, please also focus on the subject of the european social market economy. the developments we are witnessing in the labour market, not only in our own country in germany, but in the european union as a whole, are really worrying in many respects, and i would be very pleased if you would also use your remaining term of office to bring this important issue forward again.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i notice all the noise and smoke here with all the pseudo-democratic noise. the chairman of the sitting, mr tajani, did not follow the list of speakers and, contrary to all the rules, did not give the floor to the afd representative. you could call it a scam. you should be ashamed of yourself, president tajani! it's a shame what's going on here. this is a simulation of democracy!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not the agreements we are discussing today are, in my view, part of the great process in which we, as citizens and politicians of the eu, together with citizens and politicians in our associated partners, want to achieve democracy and thus lasting peace on the continent. it is all part of this process of reuniting the continent, which has been made possible by the collapse of the soviet union, and that is difficult. not only the legacy of the soviet system, but also 20 years of oligarchy have come at a price. if i am to judge moldova today, i am much more concerned about it than about the second country under discussion, georgia. moldova the one billion fraud unresolved, russian money laundering on a grand scale, non-recognition of elections, a voting right tailored to the governing elite so there is really reason to wrestle with our colleagues in the moldovan parliament, but also with civil society for a better development. in georgia, the situation is much better today. the systematic implementation of the association agreement is certainly promising. if the security service and the judiciary were reformed as systematically as they are now, and minority rights were written bigger, all of this would be great. both countries are under tremendous pressure from turkey. while in moldova turkish teachers could be kidnapped, georgia has prevented, not allowed, and turkish schools and turkish university can continue to work just to make a difference today.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not relations with the associated countries are based on the mutually accepted rules of the european union. for the first time since the signing of these agreements, our house is now looking at the reality in these countries. there is a broad consensus in the european parliament that the situation is worrying. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe. the reality is that today too, opponents are locked up, freedom of expression is restricted, elites are looting their countries, stealing, exploiting, enriching themselves personally and trampling internationally recognized rights and norms - whether those of trade unions or minorities. the gap between rich and poor is widening again. many people are looking for a future outside their own country. such a reality does not bring stability, security, prosperity or modernity. it is good that our parliament is now calling this by its name, clearly communicating its expectations and beginning to take political responsibility for the eastern neighbourhood. the people of these countries have high hopes for the eu to help them achieve social, political and economic transformation. but they will remain disappointed as long as the eu does not free itself from interdependence. the plahotniucs need the eu for their own selfish personal enrichment, which thrives best in an increasingly autocratic system. even eu politicians believe that they need the oligarchs as a geostrategic bulwark against the east. (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the situation in moldova is obviously deeply worrying. economic and political powers are increasingly concentrated in the hands of a select group of people, and basic democratic standards in the country are deteriorating. let me make three points. firstly, i call on the moldovan government to ensure the principle of judicial independence and to renounce the anti-democratic practice of politicising the judiciary for political ends. secondly, political pluralism needs to be guaranteed – the harassment and the intimidation of the opposition must stop. thirdly, the authorities in chișinău have to ensure the fundamental principle of democratic representation and must respect the will of voters as expressed in the 2018 chișinău mayoral election. this is extremely important in view of the upcoming parliamentary elections in the country.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we can say that the outrage over the deadly business of arms exports has never been greater, nor has it ever been more widespread, than it is today in the face of the horror in yemen. frigates, patrol boats, artillery tracking and bombs - mainly from germany, france and spain - are making life hell for the children in yemen. perhaps at this very moment, hospitals and school buses are once again the targets of murderous attacks. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. how can that be? there is a legal framework prohibiting arms deliveries to crisis regions and countries where serious human rights violations are taking place. how can that be? we have the common position with its eight criteria for controlling arms exports. how is it possible that saudi arabia and the united arab emirates are getting all the weapons from europe that are making the war in yemen possible, and are implementing the naval blockade - this naval blockade, which is leading to the humanitarian catastrophe that we are all aware of? we have a common position, but it can only be really good if it is implemented. i do not believe that arms exports are necessary to guarantee the stability of states and regions. we don't all agree on that. and i think we are not all of the same mind on whether and to what extent the profits of the arms industry should be protected. it is wrong to exaggerate the positive economic effects of the arms industry also in terms of jobs. but even with all these differences of opinion, we should remember one thing in common: those who are concerned with human rights, humanist values, peace and stability must do everything possible to ensure that the common position on arms export controls is effectively implemented. this includes a strong and common language to end the divergence in the interpretation and application of the criteria, and in particular the introduction of a sanction mechanism. the final destination controls must be improved and licence production must not be misused to circumvent export controls. although my group is the most vocal critic of the new eu arms programmes and opposes the defence fund, including the so-called peace facility, i welcome the fact that the report does develop common ground on integrating programmes such as edidp and others into parliamentary control mechanisms. the new and welcome feature is the extension of the criteria to include the deployment of military and security personnel for training purposes and more. finally, this report proposes for the first time a programme of socially acceptable conversion. let us use this report to assert our common responsibility and take further steps towards effective control of arms exports, as very large sections of the population are demanding of us.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report. the report is unfortunately necessary because eu member states are failing to comply with the criteria of the common position adopted in 2008. that means, for example, not supplying arms to war and crisis zones, as saudi arabia has painfully demonstrated time and again, which is why it has been named in this report. the aim of a uniform eu foreign policy is also possible only if there is a uniform arms export policy. we therefore need stronger and, above all, more consistent european regulation of arms exports, as the german chancellor has also called for here today in the house. i also ask the chancellor to ensure that bilateral agreements, such as those between germany and france, are brought under the common eu rules. the future european defence fund should also require that the products resulting from it can be exported strictly in accordance with the 2008 common position. i am not going to vote against this report because that will not be the case, and i think that is absolutely consistent.
the rapporteur. the commission is not the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to remind you that this debate and this report are not about the common position as such. i would therefore like to avoid any specific comment on the speeches which have called this common position into question. i would remind you again that this is a technical report on the implementation of a common position which was adopted by a majority in this house a long time ago. the fact that there are holes is a reality, and that is what this report is about, to fill those holes effectively. i agree with mrs. schaake that we don't have a magic wand here. but i think that if this parliament really approves this report, that is a strong signal. i think that, to take up mr hahn's words, it is also a strong signal to the national parliaments to do their homework and not to issue export licences to countries which violate the common position. i very much agree with what the last speaker said about the arms shipments to turkey. i would like to refer again to what mr carver said - he is not here now, but i think he was not really trying to have a debate either, but to get rid of some of the positions. i don't think that those weapons in turkey that are now targeting the multiethnic groups fighting isis are doing our job there. i'm not going anywhere!
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i am pleased that we have managed to bring about cooperation between the european competition authorities within a manageable timeframe in this european competition network here in parliament together with the council and, of course, with the strong commitment of the commission. i think that today we can say, thanks also to the contribution of the shadow rapporteurs and the rapporteur of the committee on the internal market, mrs maydell, that we have succeeded in finding a very comprehensive solution here, which will bring us a major step forward in the application of european competition law. as you know, this is only the second legislative proposal that the european commission has brought to the european parliament in the field of competition law, and i believe that the house was quite capable of resolving the sometimes difficult issues of balance in european competition law here in a reasonable way. i am extremely grateful to all those involved, especially the shadow rapporteurs. i would also point out that in many areas of the traditional internal market, including competition law and its application in a broader sense, we are not as far along as some citizens, some members of parliament in the member states, might think, because we still have different principles of application in the technical and executive handling of procedures. we have succeeded in taking an important step forward here. i believe this is a sign that the single market is still alive and that we are succeeding in getting better results for businesses in europe with uniform standards - better than what can often be achieved by different application of european law in different member state authorities. it is therefore right that we have taken this step, and i believe that we should take it elsewhere, and that perhaps at a later stage it should be a matter of genuine unification not only of the legal bases but also of the procedures. the commission has also taken the initiative of introducing a new system of competition rules for the european union, which will be based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. they were necessary in the end to reach a consensus with the council and the member states. and it was good that the member states were involved. but it is always, of course, a delicate matter in competition law when different procedures in different member states are reflected in the procedure, because competition law thrives on the fact that we have a real level playing field in the european union, in the european single market, and that real level playing field is best illustrated by the fact that the law is actually the same for everyone, in every respect. one of the problems that has arisen in the deliberations on this directive, which concerns not only european competition law but also economic law in the european union as a whole, is that we have repeatedly found that legal principles which were already laid down in european law in the broad sense have unfortunately not been implemented by the member states, in so far as they were themselves responsible for its implementation, in a way that would have satisfied us in a uniform european legal framework. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. we in the european parliament hope that the member states will now be able to cope with this second definition of european law in practice and we can rely on the member states to actually implement the principle of 'equal rights for all' in competition law. this is an important step we have to take here. that is why i am very much looking forward to the debate.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is indeed a pleasure to be here to have this debate before the final vote on this proposal. as the rapporteur already mentioned, this is a key proposal to enable national competition authorities independently, with full resources, to make sure that consumers can have the full benefits of competition, because yes the directive may be to some degree technical but the idea is very simple: we want to make sure that consumers can have the benefits of competition, affordable prices, choice and innovation in the marketplace. this proposal was made end may 2017. it was thoroughly prepared, after a long public consultation, between november 2015 and february 2016. so now we are at the end. the legislator – the parliament and council – has taken i think very worthwhile efforts to make this proposal a proposal that will work. the thing is, and i hoped more people would know this, that we work on a daily basis with national competition authorities to enable the benefits of european competition law for every citizen in europe. this is important because the national competition authorities are on the ground, they are in the national market, they know exactly what may be the problems in the construction industry, in retail, in the national markets, so that consumers are well served. the thing is that enforcement is only as good as the tools at hand and here unfortunately it has turned out that, well, currently there are too many gaps and too many discrepancies in the tools of national competition authorities. that poses a problem, because it makes it obvious that in some member state there is a risk of one way of doing things, in another member state the risk of another way of doing things or illegal behaviour not being detected and consumers therefore suffering harm. this is why this proposal is a good proposal and this is why i’m so grateful for the very constructive cooperation that we have had to enable this proposal. companies will benefit from the ability to compete fairly within the single market and consumers will benefit from more efficient and even competition enforcement. we have enabled a political agreement on this directive. you will soon vote and we will then have implemented the agreement that we reached in may this year. i do agree with the rapporteur. this is a milestone. it is a milestone in the history of european competition law enforcement and following its transposition into national law, following its implementation, the national authorities will have the most necessary tools to stop and to sanction illegal behaviour that harms consumers. that, i think, is the important thing, because this is all about the citizen. no matter the legal technicalities, it’s all about the citizen, also in the role as a consumer being well served in the marketplace, so that the markets serve the consumer and not the other way round.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. while we like to talk about european competition law, we should always bear in mind that the real work, outside of some big cases that make the headlines, is not done by the directorate-general for competition but by the national competition authorities in the member states. in most years, more than 85% of all decisions and rulings applying eu antitrust law are taken by national competition authorities. if we want to apply competition law effectively in the social market economy, we need strong national authorities that can do this. we see today a great disparity in the quality of national competition authorities. the range in the member states ranges from strong and independent authorities with several hundred staff to authorities with a handful of staff. there are also considerable differences in the political independence of national competition authorities. we have competition authorities that are free to act within their mandate, and we have competition authorities that are at the mercy of national policy. the duration of proceedings, the quality of the proceedings and the penalties vary considerably in the member states of the european union. in the overall picture, the question really arises as to whether all national competition authorities are able and willing to ensure effective enforcement of competition law. it is therefore right - and i thank the rapporteur very much - that we can adopt common minimum standards today. and that is why the epp group supports this proposal in the long term.
member of the commission. – mr president, the very specific question, among others, ms bermejo: the 10% cap is a minimum so that member states may provide for a higher cap, which also means higher fines because there are differences and there are also differences in tradition. but i think the very clear message from parliament is that we need higher fines in order to get a better deterrent, and if you do something illegal, it should be felt in the level of fines. second, i think it was a very important compromise that we reached on exactly the question of a cooling-off period, because independence from political decision—makers is one thing, but also independence in your mind so that you avoid the revolving doors between business and the authorities is a very important point, which is why we focused on the decision-making parts of the competition authority, and i think these compromises are very balanced and very good. also, thank you very much for the very specific example of what the risk of a monopoly is, because sometimes people think ‘well, this is out of a textbook, what is this nonsense, it’s theory’. no, no it is real life. there is a very obvious risk when you have a monopoly that prices go up and you see it and people feel it. i want to thank you – because this is only enabled because there is a very strong cooperation with the rapporteur and a strong report – the economic and monetary affairs committee of course as such, but also all the shadow rapporteurs who have engaged very thoroughly in enabling the compromises that ended up with a political agreement. for us, the commission, it was very important with this involvement from the side of parliament. it is the second time, and this has been a full involvement of parliament, and i think it also paves the way for the future. i would also like to thank the bulgarian presidency, because they did a very important job: to make sure that things were clear, that there was a clear mandate from the council, so that the negotiations could proceed. of course, this has been difficult, but we have a lot of things ahead of us still, because now comes the important point of transposing this directive into national legislation so that it becomes real life, and of course the commission is fully dedicated to enabling the national legislative authorities to transpose this in a correct way. this is our priority, but it will not change the fact that we of course stand by our promise that we have committed to look into how interim measures are adopted within the european competition network within two years from the transposition date. this, of course we will do, because the rest of the work should not stop because we have this ahead of us. we will do this with the help of our partners, again with the help of our national authority, and the result of that endeavour will of course be available not only for your information, but also for your discussion as well as with the council. wholeheartedly, thank you very much for the constructive cooperation so far and for the very constructive debate tonight.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i can only return the thanks. i think that we have indeed managed to find really good compromises on many interfaces, and i would like to go back to what my colleagues have just said. i believe - and this is perhaps what continues to separate me and mrs lópez bermejo, although we have worked very well together - that the rights of defence of companies and the rules on witnesses, although perhaps a little difficult to understand at first sight, will ultimately bring more to citizens and consumers because they create transparency that the commission or the competition authorities alone could not provide. secondly, i believe that we have also succeeded in finding a good compromise, in terms of independence and resources - as mrs maydell and mr karas have also pointed out - which respects the budgetary sovereignty of the member states on the one hand, but on the other hand provides the necessary flexibility and investigative capacity for the national authorities. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the european commission is responsible for this, of course. i think, commissioner, that you have done an excellent job in this in the last four years. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we didn't get into a big fight over the sanctions. the question is what the scale of calculation should be. i still find it a matter of legal concern that we are basing our decision on the total worldwide turnover of a company, because the european union's competence is of course necessarily limited to the european legal framework. but the fact that the european commission is negotiating this fine with other antitrust authorities, including at international level, i think that we can follow the majority who wanted to go in a different direction. so i think that we have found some really viable compromises on the whole. the next point to be made is to examine further the question of the digital single market - which we have left out in the end - and to what extent provisional measures are actually possible. but you promised, commissioner, that we would look into it. so we're very curious to see what this test will reveal. in this sense, we would like to thank all those who have contributed.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, there is continued excitement and speculation on initial coin offerings and crypto-assets. to the proponents they present a new paradigm for the internet and watching-based value transfer systems that can overcome shortcomings inherent in systems of corresponding banking between intermediaries. they also offer enormous potential for simple and fast capital raising and the figures are quite impressive. widely quoted estimates are that this year to date more than usd 21 billion was raised in over 900 initial coin offerings globally and this is more than three times the amount raised in 2017. sceptics believe that crypto-assets and initial coin offerings are not serious, that they are vehicles for fraud and manipulation, tools for speculation, manipulation and money laundering. for the commission, crypto-assets and initial coin offerings present most opportunities and risks. it is still early days and the technology has a long way to go, but we believe that crypto-assets are here to stay. the underlying blockchain technology is very promising for our digital economy, which we should embrace and support. crypto-assets cannot be separated from blockchain technology. blockchains, as opposed to much broader categories of distributed leisure technology, are chains of crypto-asset transactions. pursuing the opportunities of blockchain implies that we take an interest in crypto-assets, both in terms of the advantages they offer but also to address risks they may present. the commission was closely involved and fully subscribes to the financial stability board’s assessment that, for the time being, crypto-assets do not pose a financial stability risk. this may however change if the market grows quickly. the market remains volatile and presents significant investor protection and market integrity risks. warnings to investors about risks may not be sufficient. rules of the road are necessary, not only to protect investors and increase market integrity but also to provide legal clarity and certainty for a legitimate crypto-asset ecosystem. we have already expanded the scope of eu anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist finance legislation to crypto-asset exchanges and wallet providers through the recent fifth anti-money laundering directive. the main question for financial regulators is whether crypto-assets are financial instruments and therefore covered by financial regulation. the second question is whether that regulation is suitable and addresses the risks while supporting and enabling the opportunities. there are no simple answers to these questions. whether the current eu financial regulatory framework applies to crypto-assets on the one hand depends on the specific characteristics of each crypto-asset. on the other hand, it largely depends on how eu law is applied in national law and supervision. financial regulation and definitions of financial instruments were developed before the age of crypto-assets and initial coin offerings. it is therefore often not clear whether they are covered or not, even if they present similar features to financial instruments. we are assessing this together with the european supervisory authorities, which are expected to present their conclusions by the end of the year. without jumping to conclusions, the commission notes that some member states have already established that existing law is not applicable or that it is not suitable and they are developing sui generis frameworks. other member states consider that at least some crypto-assets fall within existing definitions of financial instruments, but even in these cases, applying existing growth raises complex, practical and enforcement questions. crypto-assets that do not meet the definition of financial instruments, whether under eu or national law, also present investor protection and market integrity issues. so this legal twilight zone is not good for a single market, it’s not good for developing a potential new source of market-based finance and it’s not good for investor protection and market integrity. following the conclusions of the european supervisory authorities’ legal mapping exercise, the commission will assess the possible way forward. thank you and i look forward to hearing your views on this topic.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. virtual currencies have received a lot of attention in recent years, first because of their promise to revolutionize payments, and later because of the rapid price rally of many virtual currencies. and when you look at how they're used, it's very clear that they can't deliver on the promise of revolution. given the enormous price gains that bitcoin & co. had made in the meantime, virtual currencies became interesting for many private investors as objects of speculation. they were often held as substitutes for stocks, bonds or gold. however, unlike other financial instruments, virtual currencies are completely unregulated. the markets for these currencies are opaque, volatile and prone to manipulation. many investors have suffered a total loss because they participated in windigen's initial coin offerings. this regulatory wild west must be stopped. private investors should be able to rely on a certain minimum level of protection when investing in virtual currencies, and this should be ensured throughout the european union. the good news is that, in principle, all the elements of a sensible regulation already exist. we have consumer protection rules, we have anti-market abuse rules and we have already established transparency rules in other areas. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rules on the free movement of goods are applied in the member states. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. we need a european solution and not 28 national solutions.
in writing. there is currently almost no way for people on the run to enter an eu country legally. they are forced to pay smugglers and risk their lives on dangerous escape routes. thousands die each year in the sahara, in the mediterranean and elsewhere. we must finally create legal pathways into the eu. one option is humanitarian visas. this is a demand which has already been expressed by the european parliament in several resolutions. the eu is founded on the principle of respect for human dignity and is based on humanitarian values. these values must also apply to non-eu citizens. we must therefore support parliament's own-initiative report, because humanitarian visas help to make escape safer. this would be an important step towards meeting our own demands for respect for human dignity.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on culture and education. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the committee on culture is particularly concerned that berec should be responsible for safeguarding cultural and media diversity. ensuring that access to communications networks is not discriminated against, whether through mergers or technological innovation, is a safeguard for diversity. the commission's proposal is to make the data available to the public in a way that is accessible to all. despite initial scepticism, it can be seen that berec has done a good job of safeguarding net neutrality and has thus done a service to all europeans. ensuring neutrality, fairness and non-discrimination remains a major challenge and we are today equipping berec with the necessary means to address this. the european code of electronic communications is also written in the spirit of freedom from discrimination. it is essential that all citizens have access to affordable, universal, accessible internet access. the switch to digital reception is also important for radio as an important source of information. we therefore welcome the fact that all new cars will have to be equipped with digital terrestrial broadcasting for reception in the next two years. it is also very welcome that frequencies continue to be recognised as a public good in the code.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the telecom package has undergone quite a transformation since it was first proposed in 2016. first, it was based on the strange notion that the best way to get companies to invest in broadband internet was to reduce competition and to offer deregulation in return for investment. even the most conservative economists would predict the exact opposite, namely that competition drives innovation and doesn’t stifle it. the verts/ale group has been at the forefront of resisting any deregulation agenda and ensuring that telecom regulators have the necessary powers to regulate. the final deal, thanks to parliament, is much more balanced than the first draft and is much more ambitious in the field of consumer rights. with the electronic communications code, we’re making real improvements to the transparency of contracts, to the ability to take your phone number with you when you switch providers, and to ensuring that everyone has affordable internet access, also recognising community networks. we are making real improvements to people’s security, too, by introducing systems that allow people to receive automatic notifications on their phones in the case of disasters. there’s a reason why telecom companies have quite a terrible reputation among consumers. many people in europe have the choice between just a small number of providers, and often all the available options are bad. bad surprises, in the form of ridiculously high phone bills, slow speeds and difficulties in switching providers, are still common. when we told europeans years ago that we would abolish roaming, they thought that would mean that wherever you called in europe, and wherever you used the internet, you would pay the same price. what they soon had to learn was that calling somebody in another eu country is not roaming. that’s an intra—eu call – something completely different – where higher prices are considered okay. so it is a great success for parliament that the proposals from the greens and the left to abolish charges for intra—eu calls have made it into the final deal, at least in the form of a price cap. that will bring european consumers one step closer to a real single market. a missed opportunity in the telecom package is that of turning the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) into a fully—fledged eu regulator. the berec regulation makes some modest improvements, but this parliament and national governments failed to take the important step of creating an eu regulator with all the powers needed. it’s a missed opportunity because global threats to our open internet are becoming bigger. it’s not just that the us has abolished federal net neutrality rules. it’s not just that, in paris this week, mr macron said that net neutrality must not stand in the way of internet regulation. no, mr macron, net neutrality is internet regulation, and it’s precisely the kind of regulation we need to strengthen. although the european union has enshrined net neutrality in law, it has failed to provide a clear and unequivocal ban on zero-rating. the consequence is that today, according to berec’s own figures, zero—rating still exists in most eu countries and we need to take further steps to ensure that an open internet is available to everybody. i hope that this telecom package will be a step in the right direction.
i have to say, madam president, the commission's proposal on berec was aimed at creating an independent berec agency and thus overcoming the existing inefficient dual structure. my group has always supported this objective, because we believe that the future european internal market for telecommunications needs a clear and strong administrative structure in which berec as an agency should play a central role. however, after the conclusion of the negotiations in parliament and with the council, we note that the time for this change has not yet come. we particularly regret that the text now put to the vote does not confer on berec any legal personality and that it will therefore continue to be unable to take legally binding decisions. we believe that this is a short-sighted decision, because on the way to the internal market many rules still need to be harmonized and technical solutions have to be found. we therefore consider the text as a whole to be too little ambitious and too much geared to maintaining the status quo. however, what makes the revised berec regulation acceptable to me is something quite different, namely the inclusion of the subject of foreign calls in the text. the capping of prices for calls to eu countries from may 2019 at 19 cents per minute, achieved in the trilogue negotiations on the code, is a great success for the european parliament. the s&d group in particular has been campaigning for many years for a reduction in telephone costs for european consumers. we can be rightly proud of this agreement, which represents another milestone after the abolition of roaming in 2017.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. why is the telecommunications package we are voting on today so important? we need fast internet access, we need high-powered networks, we need fiber optic cables, 5g gigabit networks. everyone is connected to everyone today, everything will be connected to the net in the future. a good network infrastructure is the backbone of the digital transformation, it is important for every single citizen, it is important for our businesses, for science, for administration. without a high-performance network infrastructure, nothing works. and that's why it's important that we have good infrastructure, not just in the big cities, but everywhere. the telecommunications package we are voting on today provides a good basis for regulatory action to ensure that there is more investment in the future to develop these powerful giant networks. i think that is a very important point. the second point i would like to raise is the good news for consumers: there will be limits on so-called intra-eu calls in future. so when you make a phone call from home to a european country, it becomes cheaper ... (the president takes the floor from the speaker.)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. trucks are responsible for 25% of co2 emissions from road transport, although they account for less than 5% of traffic. in recent decades, the efficiency of the engines of these vehicles has not been significantly improved because research is expensive and manufacturers therefore wanted to save money at the expense of the environment. despite the catastrophic effects of global warming, the industry-led groups in this house have repeatedly undermined the best proposals from the environment committee. i think they're gonna try that this time. to those of you who feel that the polluting trucking industry must continue to be protected at the expense of the climate and public health, the car manufacturers have recently proven that they are not to be trusted, that they - to put it bluntly and clearly - lie and cheat with criminal energy, because they are only interested in making a profit. it is now up to us to massively reduce co2 emissions in the trucking sector. that is what the citizens expect of us. public opinion polls show that public awareness of the high risks associated with climate change has increased because we are all paying a high price for the irresponsible climate policies of the major industrial nations. people all over the world are already suffering from the effects of global warming. they lose their property and even their lives because of the cowardice of politics, or worse, because they have allowed themselves to be corrupted. there is no alternative. either the european union acts now and tries to reduce co2 emissions by all means, in all sectors, or it continues to be at the mercy of industry and will be rightly accused by future generations of being a corporate lackey in the blind obsession of growth. ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we have only one earth, and we must preserve it. that should be our highest priority in this house. i would like to ask you to give mr eickhout a strong mandate for the forthcoming negotiations with the council.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the country i know best -- germany -- the government has been very vocal about the issue of co2 in cars. the environment ministry said the commission's proposal was not ambitious enough. the ministers for economic affairs and transport have said: 'yes, the commission's proposal is good'. in this case, with the heavy commercial vehicles, there is no dispute. the experts in the ministry of the environment also say that the european commission's proposal is ambitious. i think that's true. i agree with karima delli that it is a great step forward that we are doing something for the first time on heavy goods vehicles. that's why i'm a little concerned that the environmental committee has overshot its target. in particular, the 2025 target is very ambitious. that's a bigger leap than even going back to 2030. we have to introduce this legislation first. i would therefore be grateful if we could correct this, particularly on the spot, either at the time of the vote in plenary or in the trilogue. i want us to end the process with a large majority in favor of the proposal so that something can be done about the climate. but we cannot overburden the industry concerned. the environmental committee is not there yet. but i am very optimistic that we can then jointly support a realistic and ambitious proposal before the european elections.
i would like to thank the president-in-office for his reply. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. i would therefore like to begin by thanking the european commission for its proposal and hope that we can really adopt this proposal during this parliamentary term. this is urgently needed, given that other relevant markets have all already set standards for trucks. i think it is therefore time that we in the european union finally regulate co2 emissions. it is not up to any citizen to explain that the emissions from heavy goods vehicles are not yet regulated. for example, in september we received a brochure from the members of parliament advertising a fully electric 14-tonner. so in industry, too, things are actually moving, and new technologies are tangible. i believe that regulation is necessary and that regulation also helps the economy as a whole. in my constituency, for example, the second largest truck trailer manufacturer in europe has developed wind-driven trailers that reduce consumption. but we also need to set the regulatory framework so that such techniques can be used. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think we should be able to charge for alternative fuels and we should look very closely at the vote on the fines.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. dear bas eickhout, thank you for your report. i think we can all agree that all emissions are bad for the climate. we know that. that is why we must try to reduce emissions as much as possible. road traffic is a big factor in this, and we know that it will continue to increase. because if we have more people in the world, there will be more trade, more single market with europe, and there will also be more on the road, because that is the main medium by which transport is done. for the first time, we have definite goals. it's a good thing we're doing this. the point is that we have to think about how far we can really go with these goals. the best thing to do is to introduce emissions trading for trucks and buses. we have not done that now, and that is something that we would actually like to do from my party. it's also important to consider the entire life cycle of a vehicle, not just what comes out of the rear exhaust. that's right. long trucks could also be a good solution. i say this because i firmly believe that this is the case. the trucks have already reduced a lot with euro 6 and so on. i think the key thing is that we see: we must make demands, but they must also be feasible and practicable and achievable. and i have the impression that the commission has actually already proposed quite a lot.
i have to say, madam president, in the european parliament's environment committee we have considerably strengthened an already ambitious proposal from the european commission. we have moved to the intermediate target of 20% by 2025 and 35% by 2030. i think we must also ask the question in this house: what is technical and what is actually achievable and feasible? i have spoken to some technical experts who say that the potential for an average reduction of 1.5 per cent per year over the next ten years is really possible. then i'll get to 15%. if we assume more ambition, we get to 20%. i think we have to take this very seriously and not sweep under the carpet the physical and technical limitations. the operational reality is important. the production cycle of the truck is this: it's being developed today and it's on the road in 2025. in this context, the question of the 20% interim target for 2025 is important - it has been raised by many colleagues, bas eickhout. we are not in a position to do so, and we must return to 15%. i am very pleased that in the debate mr wolken... we do not always agree, but on the question of fines and the charging of e-fuels we can find a consensus. i believe that we can make a lasting improvement on this dossier.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the directive is implemented. we should be sensible and learn from the mistakes made in setting limits for cars and light commercial vehicles. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area. the 35% reduction target is a heavy one for me. but that should really be the maximum value. incentives are always better than punishments. to encourage the purchase of fuel-efficient trucks, transport companies, which are mostly smes, need to benefit from eu financing mechanisms. this should also apply to the purchase of zero-emission buses. the whole thing must be accompanied by the creation of an adequate nationwide charging and refuelling infrastructure, because even the most stringent limits will not help us if the use of low-emission vehicles is not made possible. the eu must work hand in hand with the member states.
mr president, two prominent democratic guests from hong kong are today visiting the european parliament. i would like to welcome mr martin lee, from the democratic party, and mr alan leong, from the civic party. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to return to yesterday's catching-the-eye procedure. if you say that the allocation of the votes was fair, i strongly disagree. you have given the floor to four speakers on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance. i was one of the first to report. we had asked for my intervention, of course. you gave the floor to mr monot after the group chairman had spoken, then to two britons, and you refused to give the floor to me. there should be a ... (disturbance) yes, yes, yes, that's exactly the kind of pseudo-democratic story that's going around. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that's exactly what you've been denying me. it's shabby, and it's a deep insight into the understanding of this house. and the attitude i get here from the cdu, especially. it's exactly your pseudo-democratic approach. you should be ashamed of yourself.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i won't keep you long. i would just like to announce that we have tabled an oral amendment for reasons of timeliness. you'll find him in your voting lists.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. there is considerable political pressure from turkey on georgia and also on other countries in the neighbourhood. this pressure is very often directed against schools and universities. we can say with regard to georgia that the pressure against the black sea university has not been successful, but that after a court decision and in very good cooperation with colleagues in the georgian government and parliament, the future of the black sea university is secured against the pressure from turkey. thank you to the colleagues in georgia. i would therefore ask that the specific reference to the black sea university be deleted from our report.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am sorry, but a number of colleagues have already taken their voting cards out of the machines because of the break, and therefore i think the result is distorted. it is not, the figures cannot be as you have just presented them. as i said, the colleagues have already taken out some of the maps.
mr president, that was not a mistake by the members of parliament, it was a technical mistake, and therefore you have to repeat it tomorrow. (applause from certain quarters)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank the house for the opportunity to exchange views on the very topical issue of increasing eu resilience against the influence of foreign actors on the upcoming european election campaign. as you will be aware, the european council attaches great importance to the matter. this year it addressed, both in june and october, questions of internal security, including cybersecurity and disinformation, also in the context of the upcoming european elections. work is also under way in the council in response to the commission communication on ‘tackling online disinformation: a european approach’, and the package on securing free and fair european elections. on the latter, the council is engaged in strengthening the eu regulation on the statute and funding of european political parties and foundations and is examining the non—legislative part of the package in order to adopt conclusions from the council and member states as soon as possible. in addition, we are looking forward to the action plan for a coordinated eu response to disinformation, which is being jointly developed by the commission and the eeas. it should be relevant both for eu institutions and for member states, as well as for international partners, and should propose concrete measures and resources to respond to hostile information operations in a coordinated and comprehensive way. in 2018, the number of social media users world-wide reached almost 3.2 billion, marking an increase of 13% in just one year. with the number of users expanding at such a rate, it comes as no surprise why social media have become a highly attractive target to cyberattacks, capable of impacting electoral campaigns and thus destabilising the democratic basis of our societies. criminal misuse of the internet is a serious concern for the council. it bears the risk of violating the privacy and fundamental rights of our citizens, attacking the integrity of information and seeking to disrupt the credibility of the internet. therefore, it should be our common goal to ensure that technology used in electoral campaigns safeguards these basic principles and guarantees the legitimacy of electoral outcomes. the improvement of our resilience and preparedness to counter cyberattacks, including targeting electoral campaigns, requires our full, immediate and constant effort. in the last two years, we have seen numerous initiatives, measures and instruments in the area of cybersecurity, seeking to enhance the resilience of our systems and networks. the ambitious cybersecurity package, presented by the commission in september 2017, was followed by a set of council conclusions and an action plan for the continuous monitoring of their respective implementation. they emphasise the need to enhance the eu’s capacity to prevent, deter and respond to cyberattacks. in june 2017, the council agreed on a framework for a joint eu diplomatic response to malicious cyber-activities. in october 2017, the political and security committee (psc) agreed on implementing guidelines outlining the measures as part of the framework and decision—making procedures. member states have seen repeated their wish to continuously improve the eu’s ability to respond to diplomatically to malicious cyber activities in order to influence the behaviour of potential aggressors in the short and the long term. finally, the european council, in its conclusion last month, calls for measures to ‘protect the union’s democratic system and combat disinformation, including in the context of the upcoming european elections in full respect of fundamental rights’. it is our firm commitment, in line with the call to ensure rapid examination and follow-up of the recent set of measures proposed by the commission on election cooperation networks, online transparency, protection against cybersecurity incidents, unlawful data manipulation, fighting disinformation campaigns and tightening the rules on european political party funding. the protection of the european parliament elections and of the democratic basis of our society, including cyberspace, is our paramount task and joint responsibility.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank parliament for this most urgent plenary debate. we will have elections to the european parliament in may 2019 and 50 various elections will have taken place by 2020. we have to adjust the protection of the integrity of our elections to the digital age. and we have to protect our democratic processes from new ways of manipulation by third countries or private interests. the facebook cambridge analytica scandal showed how personal data can be misused for the profiling and targeting of voters, and how valuable our new data protection rules are. we have seen the spread of fake news or disinformation coordinated on an unprecedented scale, including from outside the eu. we have learnt of hacking of candidates and cyber attacks on elections around the world, including in europe. crucial electoral rules have been breached or circumvented, in particular existing rules on the transparency of campaign financing. investigations are ongoing into allegations of dark financing from undisclosed third country sources. the most cited source of activities interfering with elections in europe is russia. but others are learning from russia. we have observed other countries and private interests increase their capabilities for election interference. given the very nature of our union, electoral interference in one member state affects the eu as a whole. national authorities cannot address these threats by working in isolation, nor can private sector self—regulation solve it all. soon we will publish the results of a special eurobarometer on elections and democracy. already now i can share with you that it shows that europeans are worried: 73% are concerned about disinformation or misinformation online in the pre-election period; 81% are in favour of online social networks being fully transparent about political content online and about who is paying for them; 80% are in favour of online social networks making clear the amount of money they receive from political parties. the commission and the european external action service are working hand in hand to define and implement an appropriate eu—wide response. in the long term, our objective should be that our respective societies all become more resilient and capable of defending themselves against disinformation. this means, for example, improving media literacy, access to quality journalism, supporting independent fact checkers and working with online platforms on how to prevent disinformation campaigns online without – and this is important to mention – restricting freedom of expression and freedom of speech. in the short term, our priority should be a coordinated response to the threats against the upcoming european and national elections. the recent election package adopted by the commission includes several concrete measures. they are: the establishment of elections cooperation networks at national and at eu level; guidance on the application of data protection rules in the electoral context; recommendations on greater transparency in paid online political advertisements and communication; strengthened cybersecurity; diligent enforcement of existing electoral rules; awareness—raising and a legislative proposal allowing to sanction the misuse of personal data for electoral purposes. i encourage the co—legislators to complete their work on it as soon as possible so that it is in force before the elections. we need to improve our analytical capabilities to detect, analyse and expose disinformation campaigns in cooperation with eu member states and with the intelligence community working on hybrid threats. allow me to give you a quick overview of our follow—up actions. the commission has written to the member states urging them to set up their national election networks, and to identify appropriate single points of contact by the end of this month. we will convene the first meeting of the european election network in january. this network will facilitate the fast exchange of information and best practices, but also provide support to member states in addressing the main areas of concern, which are: coordination of all relevant national authorities involved in the protection of elections; cybersecurity; strategy communication; data protection and hybrid threats. in the area of cybersecurity, the commission organised in october a high—level conference bringing together, for the first time, 70 representatives of member states, national electoral and cybersecurity authorities. the results of this important conference, which was organised mainly by julian king, who is here today with me, will feed into the 2018 colloquium on fundamental rights, which commission first vice—president timmermans and i will organise together in november, and which will be dedicated this year to democracy in the european union. the commission welcomes that the leading online platforms and representatives of the online advertising sector have agreed on a self—regulatory code of practice to address online disinformation. the commission is monitoring closely its implementation. however, this is not enough. in june this year, the european council tasked the commission and the external action service to develop an action plan on tackling disinformation. this action plan, which we are currently working on, will outline specific proposals for a coordinated eu response to the challenge of disinformation. we will build on existing initiatives, such as the work of the east stratcom task force, which was created in 2015 to address russia’s ongoing disinformation campaigns. it will also build on the work of the hybrid fusion cell, as well as the european centre of excellence for countering hybrid threats. an important part of their work is showing who is behind the disinformation attacks that are aimed against eu interests. addressing disinformation also means that we need to improve our ability to make our voice heard, to pass our messages and to tell our story. we therefore need to strengthen our strategic communications capacities, both within the eu and abroad. finally, close cooperation and coordination of our efforts with the european parliament in the run—up to the 2019 elections is absolutely crucial, and i fully trust we can rely on your support.
mr president, the eu member states, as we have just heard, are facing an unprecedented threat to their democratic societies. disinformation campaigns and the continuous support for anti-european political forces are undermining the european project and western democracies in general. the efforts of non-state actors and third countries – and let’s name it, especially russia – to distort facts, to manipulate reality, to foster distrust in the democratic process and even to interfere in our democratic elections, are completely unacceptable. we must act immediately and boldly to enhance the eu’s resilience against such threats, including the risks for our next european elections in may 2019. in the run—up to the european elections, the european union should focus on cooperation and information. member states and eu institutions need to cooperate more intensively and share information more effectively. in this context, commissioner jourová, i support the commission’s proposal for a cybersecurity competence centre. the european union needs an effective, well-targeted and tailor-made strategy to communicate and promote eu policies in the run-up to our next elections. we have to stand united. the eu cannot, and must not, tolerate an undeclared war against our liberal values underpinning the peace and prosperity of our continent. (applause)
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. for a while, it seemed to me that the colleagues were weighing themselves in the illusion that the cyber and fake news attacks of the information war were only focused on ukraine. it took a few years - from 2013 to 2014 - when it became apparent in ukraine that europeans understood that they themselves were the target of this information war. i think that this recognition is the first step towards defence, and i think that many of the measures that have been put forward or decided in the meantime are also correct in the sense of what has been said. but i am still not sure whether the scale of this attack on the stability of the european union that russia has decided to launch has been understood, and i think that the programmes we have decided to launch so far are so weak that i cannot believe that the scale has been understood. i would also like to point out in this context that it is a major problem when prominent politicians from european member states become part of russia's information and disinformation campaigns. as a german, i can only point to the former chancellor and current rosneft boss gerhard schröder. i also know that in austria we have to talk about mr gusenbauer, and in italy we have to talk about mr prodi. the manafort papers have given us some insight. this is something that parties must deal with if they are to take up the challenge. otherwise, i'd like to thank anna fotyga. because what we really need to do better is to strengthen journalism, to strengthen independent media. because propaganda is not won with propaganda, but with quality journalism and information.
the commission has already done so. freedom of expression is the highest good of a democracy. in my country, i have to experience that the corridor of accepted opinions has become very narrow. although there is no criminal prosecution, there is a widespread social rejection of unpopular opinions. this reminds me of my childhood in the gdr, except that for many germans today, news from switzerland or other foreign media has replaced western television. do you want to narrow that range of opinions? just yesterday, during mrs merkel's speech here in the house, the camera of parliament did not make a single turn to our side of the house. the opposition should not only be invisible in content but also in image. if you're so convinced of the validity of your arguments, then a different opinion is always worth debating, isn't it? i am with mrs merkel. the practice of influencing foreign elections is not unknown in our country either. before the moratorium expired, the federal government, through its departments, transferred taxpayer funds to the clinton foundation. it is alleged that this money was also used in the us election campaign. has this ever been discussed in this house? or is it acceptable because you see yourself as being on the right side of the moral issue? the restriction on other opinions is now to be extended to foreign actors. that's not worthy of a democracy. when, 25 years ago, american economists in particular warned of the disastrous effects of the introduction of the euro, this was described as anti-european. if only these opinions had been seriously discussed at the time and not locked into their own bubble of moralising wishful thinking, things would look very different in europe today. we must allow unlimited access to foreign opinions, even if they contain real or alleged false information. we in germany have had our own experience with fake news since the events in chemnitz. the eu has the ability to build a website that can publish opposing views on important issues. this would stimulate discussion in the european union, and there is a great need for this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. it's been proven, i think, by a lot of research and findings from the united states to many other countries, that today, foreign-controlled cambridge analytica is just one example of this, that fake news is systematically implemented by algorithms and so on. everyone can speak their mind; and that's what social media is for. but we must not say, as one of my predecessors said, 'the winds of change are blowing'. yes, that may be, but not the wind of change of lies. if it is simply a lie to systematically enforce the foreign-controlled policy in large numbers, and if i see that all the speeches coming from the right here have obviously been a precautionary defense of this policy of lying in the election campaign - because every speech has had this approach here - then we must oppose it! the afd in germany, mr gauland, has had board meetings with the afd in the russian embassy, where such things are discussed! le pen got money from russia for her campaign! they all support the policy in ukraine and then get paid for it in this way by acting against european interests and the interests of independent european nations to enforce their policy of lies. this needs to be branded, this needs to be made clear. there are all kinds of opportunities to benefit, but please do not try to influence our policies in the european union through foreign countries. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. we must therefore see - as mrs schaake has pointed out - that this is not just russia, it is coming from elsewhere. when i see that some of these parties sitting there are working with mr bannon, of whom everyone here knows the methods he used to organise the election campaign in the united states - it has been clearly stated by him himself that he deliberately organises opinion by falsifying it - then this is a situation which is not acceptable in a democratic society. our citizens should be able to decide without the aid from abroad for the rights in this house that are fighting democracy and europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. bannon, russia, fake news, technical manipulation - the weapons of those who oppose the eu have been described by colleagues in a very accurate way. we have to think in a whole other dimension. we must be digitally upgraded, we need early warning systems against false information and technical interference - not just in brussels, but in all the member states, as the czech colleague has just described - if we care about this european idea. but we also need to talk to facebook and google. we must make them do their duty. if they want to do business in europe, they have to be able to distribute content that is also legitimate. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so we need to have a very clear conversation with facebook and google. i would also like to ask the commission why we are only now considering changing the statute for foundations and political parties. the new rules are supposed to help guarantee fair and free elections, not least through transparent donations. unfortunately, these new rules will not take effect until after the european elections. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. let's take this as a wake-up call to take this whole thing much more seriously.
mr president, commissioner, madam secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it is difficult to put new arguments into context towards the end of this debate. i therefore want to expressly support what my colleagues have already said. i think that we have to look beyond the issue of misinformation in resilience, and we have to look at the fact that our networks, our digital data networks, are more vulnerable to attack, because attacks that used to be targeted and targeted at one country can now spread very easily within the european union member states, which are highly networked. so we have to look at the interaction between the two. and if mr mandl, speaking before me, points out that the great danger is, of course, that many individuals are communicating, it is the fact that the insecurity created by attacks is ultimately felt most strongly by these individuals, and that democracy, the democratic processes in the european union, are in a sense being destabilized and called into question by attacks which may not seem so dangerous at first sight. that is why we really need to ensure that before the european elections - as was pointed out in the debate - member states increase their resilience and that we succeed, also in cooperation with big business, in making sure that fake news and other misinformation are actually tackled where they can be tackled most quickly.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would also like to thank very much the rapporteur from the committee on transport and tourism (tran), mr liberadzki, and the shadow rapporteurs, as well as the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco) for their intensive and very dedicated work on the commission’s proposal to recast the rail passengers’ rights regulation. it is indeed, as mr liberadzki already said, a unique opportunity to improve rail passengers’ protection and, at the same time, to ensure further development of the rail sector, which also has an essential role to play in the development of multi-modal, integrated mobility as a service solution and in decarbonisation of transport. first of all, let me stress that the commission very much welcomes parliament’s objective to promote more attractive rail services and better passenger protection, but allow me to comment on some of your specific amendments. first, on amendments beyond the recast legislative technique: we do have some institutional concerns over specific amendments which are not in line with the rules agreed between our institutions for the recast legislative technique. some changes, such as the compensation levels in cases of service delay or cancellations, are not part of the commission’s legislative proposal. this said, we fully understand and share your good intentions to increase passengers’ protection in the sector and we will examine the respective provisions put forward in detail taking account of the commission’s prerogative of legislative initiative. of course, for those provisions which have been included in the commission’s recast proposal and which have undergone significant amendment following the ep debate, for example, regulation on through tickets, we stand ready to actively participate in the upcoming interinstitutional discussions. on persons with reduced mobility, it really goes without saying that we are very much in favour of increasing, to the most feasible and realistic extent, the mobility of all european citizens. we, therefore, very much value parliament’s effort to improve the situation of persons with disabilities and reduced mobility. we are open to those amendments that can lay solid ground for generally improving the mobility of these citizens in need. allow me just to share one very concrete example that i was able to directly witness and experience – when we made the special effort to make it happen for a person with disabilities to also use the european programme discover eu and travel with different modes, primarily railway, throughout the eu and be part of this exciting programme for the youth. it’s a really good example of how we can improve conditions and how we can really enable all european citizens to be able to take advantage of european programmes. so, that’s very much appreciated, mr liberadzki. on bicycles, it will be of no surprise to you that i also welcome those amendments which may further contribute to increasing the use of ecologically friendly transport modes such as bicycles. the commission shares your enthusiasm about new mobility opportunities. further efforts will be needed in order to ensure that there are no loopholes on this path. for example, passengers shall be properly informed about those new opportunities. we shall also ensure that when train capacity for taking bicycles on board is reached, any possible refusal takes place on transparent and justifiable grounds. on passenger information, i would also like to stress that the commission welcomes amendments that increase the level of rail passenger information about their rights, the journey opportunities offered to them, as well as events and outcomes surrounding the trip. on derogations, we will not be able to truly promote the interests of eu rail passengers and the single market if our legal provisions are accompanied by a widespread practice of granting derogations. the commission therefore supports increased limitations on such derogation possibilities, which should be based on a purely balanced approach taking into account both passengers’ and industrial interests. to conclude, i am convinced that all efforts invested in this legislative file will pay off. improving the current rules would not only increase the mobility of eu citizens and open new opportunities, but also open new opportunities to them. it would also contribute to enhancing competition in the rail sector and also improve rail services. in turn, all this will increase the overall attractiveness of rail transport, to the benefit of passengers, industry, and our environment. once again, i would really like to express my appreciation of parliament’s work on improving rail passengers’ protection and i look forward to today’s debate.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission has already made a number of proposals. only a minority of member states have fully implemented the passenger rights agreed almost a decade ago. that's why i think it's good that we're here today. i'm glad we found a strong compromise for the bike ride. anyone who knows me can relate to that. the european parliament wants us to have compulsory seats on all trains in the near future without the loopholes we have had so far. this will eliminate the need for customers to transport their bicycles by other means of transport. a large majority are also in favour of the transit ticket. i'm not surprised. transit services were already the dominant standard by international conventions in 1923. we are far from that today. 67% of passengers are in favour of uniform rights for the entire train journey from start to finish, even if you have to change trains, even if you have to change trains several times. however, this is hardly available, especially for crossborder connections. the transit ticket shall be subject to accessible travel information and booking systems. and for the open interfaces that we need, the open data, we have found strong language to make this better in the future. but for full-time passengers, we must in principle abolish the 'force majeure' exception. i had always been a supporter of this, also in the negotiations. there's never been a case like this on the railroad. the introduction of force majeure would create an unacceptable degree of legal uncertainty to the detriment of passengers. only a tiny fraction of delays are caused by force majeure. the arbitrary interpretations of the airlines should be a warning to us. the court of auditors has also confirmed this in its recent report. a flat tire was a force majeure for an airline, which is a crazy but sad reality. another problem is the assistance at stations, without a time limit. only in stations with more than ten thousand passengers a day can persons with reduced mobility benefit from spontaneous assistance. 97 per cent of the stations would thus be exempted from this scheme. this is not acceptable to me, and even less so to people with reduced mobility. we have to change that.
mr president, commissioner bulc, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. we must make rail transport more attractive to european citizens without overburdening the railway companies. we need consumer-friendly and fair rules. it is time to revise the existing passenger rights and adapt them to digital developments. let's get on the train, don't let him just drive away! i expect the same from the council. what is the purpose of this revision? my checklist is: first, the new rules must ensure that there are comprehensive passenger rights that are unproblematic and transfrontier enforceable. we do this by limiting exceptions and eliminating language barriers in the appeal process. secondly, passengers must be informed in real time both before and during the journey. thirdly, the so-called transit ticket should not be the exception but the rule. a single ticket must be sufficient to travel by rail both nationally and across borders. fourthly, the rights of rail passengers with reduced or disabled mobility must be significantly strengthened. i am very pleased that my proposal has been accepted, which makes the lead time for the provision of assistance dependent on the size of the station. and fifthly, we need to increase compensation payments to put pressure on the railway sector to improve its quality. at the same time, however, exceptions must be maintained in the case of force majeure. it cannot apply to railways any differently than it does to buses, ships and air transport.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their good work on this important subject of passenger rights. i would also like to thank the commission for taking up and reviewing this issue which is ten years old. fortunately, ten years is longer than most delays. nevertheless, train delays and cancellations are part of the daily routine of many people who travel for work, for vacation, or for business. i am one of them, i often take the train myself, and i know what it is like. now, of course, we as legislators cannot ban all of this by law. but we now have the opportunity to make a significant improvement in passenger rights. 100% refund for delays of more than two hours, improvements in bike-taking, improvements in accessibility, that's just three points. if we want the railway to become more attractive and a good alternative to cars, buses and airplanes, then we have to do something. we must not only rely on the conscience of the people, but also work on consumer friendliness and on this sensible form of mobility. if we all do this together, then a lot more people will like to take the train.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 november 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by julie girling, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on persistent organic pollutants (recast) (com ((2018) 0144 c8-0124/2018 2018/0070 ((cod)) (a8-0336/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 15 november 2018. the following are the provisions of the convention:
the next item is the debate on the statements by the council and the commission on the independence of statistical offices in the european union and the case of andreas georgiou (2018/2930 ((rsp)).
i have to say, madam president, the accusations against andreas georgiou would be met with a reprimand in germany, but certainly not with a two-year prison sentence. the sentences against andreas georgiou have been repeatedly overturned by courts of appeal; the greek judiciary, the prosecutor's office, has always tried to bring new cases. in view of this, a question naturally arises: why was the greek state so anxious to convict andreas georgiou? his crime was not that he published statistical data without consulting his colleagues from the elstat board his real crime was that andreas georgiou did his job, and that includes the need to speak uncomfortable truths. the real scandal is that those who have helped to report incorrect statistics are not held accountable. no, instead, the person who is prosecuted is the one who has worked to ensure that the rules are followed and that no tricks are played. by reporting erroneous data, greece has damaged the integrity of the european statistical system. the damage was much greater, however, in the way andreas georgiou was treated. the european statistical system is based on the basic assumption that the data reported are correct. this in turn presupposes that statisticians are free to carry out their work. that is why i can only condemn the action. (the speaker declines to answer a question from mr papadimoulis and a question from mr chountis under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
i have to say, madam president, andreas georgiou has been on trial for years for telling the truth in a difficult situation. he became head of the greek statistical office in august 2010. he has finally got the greek deficit figures right. before that, the statistics were flawed. all this is confirmed by the european statistical office. yes, and that made him a bearer of bad news in times of trouble. but that was his goddamn duty as a civil servant and according to our european rules. in times when mistrust and fake news threaten to destroy europe, mr georgiou has created trust. when you travel to other less fortunate parts of the world, you realize what a blessing it is that our civil service is committed to the truth, that it serves the state and not just the rulers. i believe that this great achievement of european civilization was also historically born in greece. europe can be grateful for this and greece can be proud of it. we must preserve this achievement and protect our public servants. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. this is not about who ruled greece when. i think everyone in this room knows that. the question is whether a statistical office can do its job with the independence it requires. i think, mr papadimoulis, that you have found very wise words to say this and i have nothing to add to them.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the 'blue card' procedure. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i would like to know why you think that the figures produced under mr georgiou were wrong, when the european statistical office has confirmed that the work was correct. that was not in your speech. i'd like to know where you see the problem. our european authorities say that everything was fine. how do you come to a different conclusion?
mr president, madam commissioner, madam president of the council! yes, we know that in germany, mr chountis, the statistics we report are correct. if they were not correct, then we would impose a penalty because they are not correct, and not because someone reported them as correct. this is an absurd distortion of the content and an absurd distortion of the substance. the current government has been dealing with mr georgiou with particular intensity, and that makes it the main party responsible for the proceedings against mr georgiou. i think it is extremely regrettable, and we have said this to mr georgiou and to the greek governments with the financial working group for greece. i've been there twice myself. it's not right that such things are done in greece. i am surprised by this waste of resources. and i am also surprised that the greek judiciary, which has such a backlog of cases, suddenly takes this case so seriously that it will take it up three times and then reject it again. the greek government has always held us back with flimsy arguments. we have repeatedly urged that this procedure be terminated because it is a question of credibility. what's this about? mr ferber asked the question. i can tell you what it's about. it is an attempt to set an example, to send a clear message to other officials: do not report anything to brussels until we have ticked it off. the opportunity for manipulation must be preserved. that's what it's really about. the lesson to be learned by greek officials is reprehensible and extremely harmful. i'm the one who does the budgeting here. i was once told by a greek official how he writes his report to the european commission. he comes into office on sunday, locks himself in his room and doesn't open the door until the report is ready. that is to say, you have a fundamental interest in having your credibility recognized in europe. you're gonna have to work on your credibility. that is why i am asking you to do so. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i'm not afraid of a fight. but i do not want to hear any more of the nonsense that our greek colleagues are telling us. no, thank you. (the speaker declined to answer a question from mr papadimoulis under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
member of the commission. – mr president, we all agree on the importance of independent statistics for informed policy-making and sound decision-taking at both national and union levels. transparency and accountability are key notions in that regard, and therefore i again welcome the opportunity to appear before you. for the commission, it is essential that the independence of the statistical authorities, and of the people who perform their duties in line with their responsibilities, is protected. the commission will therefore continue to monitor the application of fundamental statistical principles in all member states, and i thank the house for its support on this. the situation of mr georgiou is of concern to you as well as to the commission. let me repeat, once again, that we have full confidence in the reliability and the accuracy of data produced by the hellenic statistical authority (elstat) under his leadership. concerning the comments made by mr chountis, i refer to the reply to question no 4404 from this year. in short, we stand by the correction made by mr georgiou in 2010. as i said before, we have also repeatedly voiced that concern via public statements or directly in contacts with the greek authorities. furthermore, a commission official appeared as a witness before a greek court and offered testimony in support of the implementation of eu law by the greek statistical authority under mr georgiou’s leadership. i am glad that some of you recognised that the independence of elstat has been strengthened. greek statistics law has been brought into line with eu law, notably regulation 223 on european statistics, as well as the european statistics code of practice, to ensure professional independence. these make it clear that the content and timing of statistical release is the sole responsibility of the heads of the statistical offices. i also have to tell you that all governments have expressed their support for the european statistics code of practice. on the basis of the code, member states subject themselves to regular peer views and the results of the peer reviews are published and combined with action plans for improvements where necessary. the commission fully recognises and respects the independence of the judicial authorities in greece. they should be allowed to perform their tasks without political considerations or pressure. in that respect, representatives of governments and public authorities at both national and eu levels have a duty to refrain from anticipating the outcome of judicial investigations or proceedings. i count on your continued support, and also your attention, to safeguard the fundamental principles of high quality and trustworthiness in relation to statistics.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone very much for this discussion. it is a matter that definitely deserves our attention and i would like to fully second what madam commissioner said: the independence of statistical authorities is one of the pillars of the eu’s economic governance. on the other hand, please let me state, as a former judge, that the independence of the judicial system is also one of the cornerstones of the rule of law and democracy and, therefore, i can only assure you that we will closely follow the developments. however, i hope that we don’t have to come back to such a situation again.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the high representative / vice-president of the commission. – mr president, thank you for this opportunity to discuss a subject of tremendous importance for european and global security. the treaty on intermediate-range nuclear forces in europe, in force since 1988, is among the key international agreements which marked the end of the cold war. while neither the european union nor any of the eu member states are parties to the treaty, we do have a very high stake in its preservation and continued implementation. thanks to the intermediate-range nuclear forces (inf) treaty, some 3000 missiles with nuclear and conventional warheads have been removed and verifiably destroyed. for those who have the experience and memory of the cold war, this was a truly historical moment. the tools for waging nuclear war were not only removed from our continent but irreversibly dismantled and destroyed. this happened under the mutual supervision, in the form of one-side inspections. so we are justified in declaring that the inf treaty has not only contributed to the end of the cold war, but it also constitutes one of the major pillars of european current security architecture. calling it a cold war-era agreement or a relic of the cold war is a misinterpretation and a misunderstanding. the inf treaty is always an important contribution to disarmament obligations under article 6 of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty. all eu member states, whether or not they have nuclear weapons, both nato members and non-nato countries, all are state parties to the non-proliferation treaty. we are united in our support for the non-proliferation treaty as the cornerstone of the global nuclear non-proliferation regime. the treaty has made a crucial contribution to international peace, security and stability over the past 50 years. let me recall that all states party to the non-proliferation treaty are committed to pursuing the objective of achieving a world without nuclear weapons. we, as the european union, stressed the need for concrete progress towards the full implementation of article 6 of the non-proliferation treaty especially through an overall reduction in the global stockpile of nuclear weapons. the states that possess the largest nuclear arsenals – which are the russian federation and the united states –have a special responsibility on this. the inf treaty does not only cover nuclear-armed missiles. it is about an entire category of ballistic and cruise missiles, regardless of their warheads. in recent years, the development, test or use of ballistic missiles has been a destabilising factor in regional and international security. it creates an atmosphere of mistrust and suspicion and adds uncertainty in international relations – i am thinking, in particular, of the launches by north korea, iran and syria. the inf treaty is also a model to be followed and, as such, it is today more relevant than ever before. the current disarmament and non-proliferation architecture needs to become more universal as a guarantee for all. we europeans are working at all levels to promote the universalisation of existing agreements, such as the hague code of conduct against ballistic missile proliferation. the hague code does not prohibit the possession of missiles but aims to prevent proliferation and increases transparency for the benefit of subscribers. subscribing states exchange information including pre-launch notifications. as of now, 139 countries have subscribed to the hague code. this is no small achievement as subscribers include the us and russia, as well as all eu member states. the eu has a long history of supporting the universalisation and effective implementation of the hague code, both diplomatically and financially, both the immediate contact point in the austrian mfa and the rotating chairmanships benefit from eu-funded support programme. it is not by chance that very often it is eu member states which hold the annual rotating chairmanships of the hague code, promoting its universalisation and chairing relevant meetings. last year it was poland, this year: sweden. but let me stress that politically binding confidence-building measures like the hague code are not a substitute for legally binding arms control and disarmament agreements like the inf treaty. it is for this reason that, in our view, the united states and the russian federation needs to remain engaged in constructive dialogue to preserve to inf treaty and ensure its full and verifiable implementation, which is crucial for european and global security. we have asked the united states to consider the consequences of its possible withdrawal from the inf on its own security, and on our collective security and we expect the russian federation to address the serious concerns regarding its compliance with the inf treaty. the world doesn’t need a new arms race. that would benefit no one. on the contrary, it would only bring even more instability.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not the inf is a milestone in the history of nuclear disarmament and international security policy. it has helped to build trust between the two nuclear superpowers, the united states and russia, with far-reaching positive consequences, including for our european security and our social development processes. it also made an important contribution to the necessary denuclearisation of european security structures. unfortunately, this trend has reversed itself in the recent past. both the united states and russia are modernizing their nuclear weapons systems. and yes, the growing distrust between the two parties in recent months and years, which is also reflected in the announced dissolution of the inf treaty, does not make the world any safer. it's a threat. it is vital that we in the european parliament make every effort to ensure that the american and russian sides adhere to the treaty. all eu member states must take political action in this direction. the inf treaty is perhaps also a model for putting an international treaty on new bilateral, regional or multilateral nuclear disarmament agreements on the agenda of international security and peace policy.
mr president, madam president of the council! i see the reverse of things here. i was politically active in 1980. at that time, there were only soviet missiles, aimed at europe only. that was the ss-20. on the other hand, there was the nato double decision which led to the fact that the soviet union was forced to make a deal with gorbachev in 1987 that both sides would dismantle their weapons, that we would no longer deploy them and that the ss-20 would disappear. this is the inf treaty. but we have known for some years now that russia is again building these missiles of a modern kind - missiles, medium-range weapons that do not reach the united states or anyone else, but are aimed almost exclusively at europe. that is to say, we have a situation like in 1980, when we pointed russian medium-range missiles with nuclear weapons at europe, but there are no counter-weapons on the side of europe and stationed in europe. so we're at 1980, and the russians have destroyed the inf treaty. that this is now becoming obvious - and i'm not often a trump fan - and that this is being made clear, i don't think it's so wrong. i believe that russia is being asked to stop this, to get rid of these missiles again, so that the inf treaty is fulfilled. the american missiles in romania are not surface-to-surface missiles that threaten russia. these are surface-to-air missiles to shoot down missiles that are aimed at europe, and the stationing of missiles in romania was intended to deter iranian missiles. i think we should invite the russians to inspect the facilities in romania here to remove any uncertainty that this would be aimed at shooting down russian missiles aimed at europe - we don't even want that! - and that's why this has to be done with the deal that the russians finally get rid of their missiles aimed at europe.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. the deep regret expressed is, of course, shared by all of us. but i also deeply regret that we are not able to get to a realistic language, but are constantly embellishing the situation. nobody's had anything like that yet. the so-called blocking statute is ridiculous! no international corporation can afford to rely on it. so i think we should start taking ourselves more seriously, including the weaknesses that we have. one of the weaknesses, in my view, is that we are right to maintain the nuclear deal with iran, but we have no reason to gloss over the negative aspects of iranian foreign policy as you have done, commissioner. they said: 'we voice these agreements, and we have frank and active dialogue.' that's all we can think of? is this appropriate to iran's foreign policy? i doubt that very much. secondly, we will have to work with the chinese and the russians here, because at this particular point the americans are taking a position which is intolerable for us. but still, we are not suddenly in a camp with iran, china and russia. what we need to develop is a stronger european autonomy. this also means promoting the role of the euro internationally. and the last thing i want to say, mr preda, is that whoever says 'we have to have serious discussions with the us' is simply saying that the us is not a good partner for the eu. that's not a serious person, sorry, forgive me.
blue-card question. – mr agnew, would you concede that the iranian leadership has so far stuck to the letter and the spirit of the agreement, so it is not justified to blame them for deviating from that, as you did?
the commission has already made a number of proposals. we are in agreement, i think, on the foreign policy of iran. but that's not the issue today. i am horrified every day by the american president who betrays almost everything the americans taught us germans after the nazi era. i grew up in berlin in the '50s. i can't be anti-american at all. i will be eternally grateful to them. but that's why it hurts so much more that this partnership is suffering so much right now. the united states has withdrawn from the agreement without any valid reason, as we have just been confirmed by the authorities investigating the matter. it's supposed to be the toughest sanctions ever. it is sanctions against our european smes; the big ones don't take that risk. we therefore urgently and soon need special purpose vehicles to help the smes that want to continue to work with iran. commissioner, you said it was not directed against the united states. you said it wasn't to circumvent sanctions. what you said is wrong. of course it is directed against the united states, which is threatening our companies, and of course it is there to circumvent unjustified sanctions! europe is slowly waking up thanks to mr trump. i'd ask you to wake up too.
a writer. the commission is not in vietnam, we are seeing an increase in arbitrary arrests and politically motivated sentences of human rights and environmental activists, lawyers and bloggers. anyone who expresses his opinion freely, criticizes wrongdoing, or exercises the right to freedom of assembly faces persecution and arrest. i was afet's reporter on the vietnam partnership agreement, whose human rights provisions also apply to the free trade agreement. it is essential that the eu formulate clear benchmarks for human rights protection that vietnam must meet before agreeing to the free trade agreement. the commission has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the preparation of the un security council resolution on the situation in the middle east. the eu must speak out against human rights abuses in vietnam and support civil society on the ground, including by monitoring trials and visiting prisons.
member of the commission. – mr president, the european union has a substantial and long-lasting relationship with bangladesh. our political dialogue has intensified over the past months in the context of the refugee crisis. we appreciate the government’s and people of bangladesh’s efforts to host the rohingya refugees. the return of the refugees to their place of origin remains the objective, but it must be voluntary, safe, sustainable and dignified. it should not go against those fundamental requirements. it is important that the return of refugees is conducted in line with international law and with the involvement of unhcr. it is critical that the conditions in rakhine state are conducive for a safe and sustainable return. human rights are a key priority of our dialogue with bangladesh. the eu regularly expresses its concerns on the situation of human rights, and we see it as a positive development that the government of bangladesh is engaging with the eu on this issue. in joint press statements adopted at the sub-group on good governance and human rights in april, and at the diplomatic consultations held in dhaka in july, the authorities undertook to address the shortages and enforce policies respectful of human rights, fundamental freedoms and democracy. however, the situation is of serious concern and more needs to be done: human rights and fundamental freedoms are being increasingly challenged as parliamentary elections are coming close. while continuing its dialogue with the government of bangladesh, together with eu member states and other like-minded partners on the ground, the eu has addressed this in a number of recent public statements. this was particularly necessary in the context of the reaction to the recent digital security act and violence against students and press during the summer. we are notably very concerned over the situation of mr shahidul alam. the preparation of the parliamentary elections is discussed regularly with the bangladeshi authorities. the eu expects that the upcoming elections will be held in a transparent, inclusive and impartial way. the rule of law, freedom of expression and freedom of peaceful assembly should be upheld and protected. the government needs to ensure a safe and enabling environment for civil society, journalists and human rights defenders. as regards labour rights, the government needs to fully implement the international labour organization’s recommendations, notably on freedom of association. human rights are a crucial part of the eu’s development cooperation with bangladesh, with more than eur 40 million committed for democratic governance. the eu focuses on ensuring democratic ownership through engagement with civil society, promoting democratic empowerment and local governance, notably by addressing access to justice. (applause)
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr kelly! i'd like to point out that all reports are equally important. it may have a slightly higher political importance, but in principle all reports are equally important because they also reflect the work of colleagues in this house. there is a clear set of rules of procedure in which the order in which dossiers are voted is laid down, and in that order, for example, legislation takes precedence over other dossiers. the rules of procedure may be derogated from only in exceptional cases. i personally regret that colleagues are now leaving earlier on wednesdays. on the other hand, we cannot conduct research on conscience. there are also colleagues who deliberately do not participate in votes, who do not want to abstain, but who do not want to participate in abstentions. the problem with yesterday's vote is clear. i can inform you that the conference of presidents has decided to authorise the libe committee to re-enter this procedure. we cannot repeat yesterday's vote. there are clear rules. but the committee can re-run the procedure and then see how quickly the committee gets back to the plenary with a dossier.
thank you very much, mr. sośnierz. i think that's all there is to it. i just want to say that this may not be the norm, but the criticism of mr kelly is aimed at the wrong people. he is usually present at all parliamentary proceedings from start to finish. the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the role of the german youth office in cross-border family disputes (2018/2856 ((rsp)).
mr mamikins, if i have to take the floor because someone has exceeded his speaking time, i do not give him the opportunity to ask a question. spontaneous speech
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i'm glad this topic is being discussed here. i come from the district of neumarkt in the upper palatinate in bavaria, where i was also deputy county councillor for 12 years and have been a member of parliament for 28 years. i have not had a single complaint about the youth office. germany is a federal state, we have 16 federal states. there may be individual länder where there are certain difficulties. but i think it is wrong to place the youth services under general suspicion. the work done in many youth offices is excellent. if there had been cases in my own circle, the complaints would have reached me, and in these 28 years, not once has that happened. i also know that interpreters are provided here if interpreting is necessary. they may not always be available at the same time, but interpreters are generally available if necessary.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this debate. i am aware of a number of complaints which the committee on petitions has received and i have tried to find the legal way to get into the problem and to come up with some measures. but i have to fully respect the division of competences stipulated in the primary law. as i said before, family-law matters are highly sensitive, and the eu has very limited legal competence to act in this field, so everybody should act in accordance with the applicable legislation. for the member states, this is clearly the charter of fundamental rights and the un convention on the rights of the child, which are legally binding on them. they have to ensure that in all actions related to children, the child’s best interests are the primary consideration, and the national courts are best placed to assess the application of the principle of the best interests of the child in individual cases. regarding the eu’s competence, i want to clarify once again the eu family law is limited to common rules on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of existing judgments in another member state. the high sensitivity of family-law matters is also reflected in the requirement for unanimity in the council for family-law matters. this is also the case for the brussels 2a regulation, and i hope we will be able to adopt the revision of this regulation in december. the revision of the brussels 2a regulation should make proceedings in cross-border cases easier and quicker. we are indeed considering the best interest of the child. we had to work extremely hard to get all the member states on board for this process – the revision of the brussels 2a regulation – and i do hope that they will all vote for this in december. let me thank you again for the support expressed in the parliament opinion on the brussels 2a regulation. i hope, as i said, that the negotiations on this instrument in the council will be finalised soon, and the regulation will enable the more efficient handling of cross-border cases.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would not want to interrupt you. i'm sorry about that. i refer to rule 46 and rule 52 of the rules of procedure in relation to the decision of the conference of group chairmen to hold a second procedure on humanitarian visas. i would remind you that the owninitiative report on humanitarian visas was rejected by a democratic majority in the plenary on wednesday, 14 november. that was a flawless procedure and vote. but some in this house seem to like democracy only when it produces the desired result. the green-left lobby in the house has therefore succeeded in getting the same proposal to be tabled again in the committee on the interior. i would ask you, mr president, what conclusion have you reached with regard to the examination of the legal basis of the proposal, which you are obliged to undertake under article 46 (2)? can you also guarantee that the procedure in committee will be in accordance with the rules of procedure, given that the procedure is to be completed in strasbourg in december? what legal basis is there for the conference of group chairmen to decide to ignore a vote in plenary in order to call for a second vote on a text which has already been rejected? i ask: which groups agreed to this and how did the ppe and ecr vote in the conference of group chairmen? (applause from the centre)
prime minister of denmark. – mr president, let me begin by quoting from the danish debate on the european union: ‘the european union has too much power!’, ‘the european union is not for the people!’ these are statements – made by danish citizens – during our citizens’ consultations on the future of the eu. i bring up these statements today not because they are shared by me or because they are shared by the majority – far from it, but because these are views that are not uncommon in denmark or the rest of europe. i bring up these statements because i care. i care about my country, about europe, about our union: a union born from the ashes of war and division turned into the greatest and most successful peace project in the history of the world. my grandfather witnessed the first world war from a distance. my mother witnessed the second world war up close. to her, the golden stars were not only symbols of peace; they were also a reminder of the opposite: fear, destruction, war. she was born on the island of bornholm and she witnessed the russian bombardment after denmark had regained freedom in may 1945, so she witnessed the burning fire when bombs fell from the sky. to people like my mother, the anthem of europe was the anthem of peace, but to my daughter and my sons, war in europe is a long time ago. it’s a story, not a memory. to them and to younger generations, bringing peace in the past will not be enough to justify our union in the future. this puts new pressure on the european union. how should we respond? we must keep reminding people of what we have achieved together in the past, but we must also listen – listen to what the people of europe want the eu to be in the future. if we don’t, we risk jeopardising european solidarity. brexit is a case in point. we must respect the choice of the british people, but we also need to learn from this choice. for forty years, the people of britain were told how european cooperation was holding them back, but in fact, brexit has revealed how european cooperation was solving problems that the brits now have to deal with on their own: securing open borders, frictionless trade, peace and security. in britain, the government perhaps forgot to tell people about the results in europe, forgot to tell people about what we have achieved together, and perhaps, along the way, they forgot to listen to the voices of concern, too – before it was all too late. many of you would maybe claim that the danes, too, are reluctant europeans. you saw how the danes rejected the maastricht treaty in 1992, rejected the euro in the year 2000, and, in 2015, rejected the ability to fully participate in cooperation on justice and home affairs, but you would be greatly mistaken to cast the danes as being in opposition to the european union. in fact, the share of people supporting the eu is larger in denmark than in most other european countries and the share of danes who believe their voice is heard at european level ranks 2nd among all 28 member states. how can that be? part of the reason is that in denmark, we have a long tradition of discussing the european union. not as much as i would like, but politicians from left to right have, in fact, promoted this debate for the last 30 years. this has given everyone, including myself, a much more pragmatic view on our union. perhaps this is also why danes are not swayed by distant dreams of a future that might be. grand ideas of the ‘united states of europe’ fall on deaf ears. we are concerned about finding down-to-earth solutions to present-day problems, to making the eu work better. as a people with a thousand-year long tradition for trading, danes recognise a good deal when they see it, and the eu is a good deal. the single market is a tremendous benefit to our economy which cannot be understated. the eu is also a close-knit political community of nations that share and seek to protect the same fundamental values, a union of nations that solve their problems through peaceful means. that is a good deal. denmark belongs in the european union, but, at the same time, danes are proud of their unique model of society. over the course of this past century, denmark has developed one of the best welfare states known in history. people pay a large share of their income to ensure that every citizen, regardless of gender, race or origin, has a fair chance to succeed. for the most part, our model of society is well protected under the eu treaties and in eu regulations. in fact, the eu has helped to strengthen our economy: estimates say that real wages in denmark are 10 percent higher than they would have been had we been outside the eu. the freedom of movement ensures that our businesses have direct access to half a billion consumers and that danes can work and deliver services all over europe. however, in certain key areas, i have a hard time defending and explaining the eu rules. for instance, our high levels of child benefit payments – financed by danish tax payers – are made available to all workers in denmark, regardless of whether their children actually live in denmark or not. this is, from a danish perspective, not fair, and it is a challenge to the danish model of society, which is based on a shared sense of solidarity and on our ability to ensure a sustainable balance of rights and responsibilities. the eu must guarantee the freedom to move, but freedom of movement must also be fair and freedom of movement must not be abused. during this very fall, a number of third-country truck drivers – technically employed in another eu country – were found to be working permanently in denmark under horrible conditions, apparently under the pretext of the freedom of movement. stories like this hurt the image of the eu and we need to work together to ensure that they are not repeated and that rules are strongly enforced for the benefit of the people. in some cases, the solution is for the eu to step down, to interfere less; yet, in other areas, the eu needs to step up. in four existential areas, i hear our citizens calling for more cooperation. our time will be defined by our ability to solve these issues – together in this room and in the council. the first issue is migration. this is a challenge that will not disappear anytime soon, but even if the challenge is still here, we could all do a better job of explaining to citizens that the eu and the member states have already achieved quite a lot: for instance, a 95% drop in arrivals since the crisis of 2015. however, more needs to be done. we have to break the cynical business model of human traffickers. we must develop european policies which remove the incentive for those with no real need for protection to embark on a dangerous journey towards europe. common solutions are necessary, but not all european solutions are equally good. i continue to believe that redistribution of asylum seekers is not the right way to solve the problem, but make no mistake: denmark is willing to take responsibility and support those frontline member states in need. we support a more flexible – yet mandatory – mechanism of solidarity and we are ready to put actions behind our words. in 2019, we will significantly enhance our contribution to frontex. we already rank among the top four when it comes to financing the eu trust fund for africa. we are among only three or four european member states who actually have managed to allocate 0.7% of gdp to aid, and we are actively exploring further contributions. speaking of africa, i believe it is time for europe to start rebuilding our partnership with the nations of africa. our two continents are bound to each other: what is good for africa will also be good for europe. europe has flourished because of decades of international trade liberalisation by the eu. there is no reason why the same benefits cannot be applied to africa. that is why i believe we must help africa in building a true african free trade area which can serve as the bedrock for future african jobs and prosperity. while pushing for further progress on return and readmission, our aim should be to create a full and equal partnership. the second issue where increased eu action is essential is the fight against climate change. almost three years ago, paris, the city of lights, turned into the shining city on the hill as the world agreed to save the planet from climate breakdown. two months earlier, at the un assembly in new york, i had the privilege to co-chair the very un meeting where we adopted the sustainable development goals. these are two historic agreements offering new hope for future generations. denmark is determined to act in support of both agreements. during the last 17 years, we have tripled our consumption of green electricity. on windy days, all of our electricity is produced by windmills, and we are well on the way to reaching our goal of net zero emissions by 2050. i was happy to learn earlier today that the commission has adopted the same vision of carbon neutrality for all of europe. decades ago, a political decision on renewable energy was taken in denmark and it has proven to be a good deal for danish companies. they were forced to innovate and now we all profit: businesses as well as the environment. recently, my government has launched a new vision. in 17 years – in 2035 – every single new car bought in denmark must be an electric car or another type of zero-emission car. it is a big ambition that will not be easy to reach, but it is precisely this kind of decision that i believe will foster innovation, and i will push hard to make this a european policy. make no mistake about it: if we set ambitious goals for the green transition at european level, we will motivate our own industry to be frontrunners – to the benefit of all of us in europe, and not least to the benefit of our children and grandchildren. today, the eu has become the global voice of the climate and green transition. we need to live up to that responsibility and i urge everyone in this room to work to that end. now is not the time to slow down. the third issue where more eu action is needed is on expanding and modernising and implementing the single market. that is, after all, the backbone of our european cooperation. our internal market needs to be brought up to speed. i can be blunt: the internal market is no longer only about physical goods at physical borders; the modern economy is much more than that. today, services, and in particular digital services, constitute an increasingly important part of our economy; goods and services are intertwined in global value chains. the single market must match this development: it must be digitally competitive, data must flow freely, every corner of the internal market must be digitally fit – from production to consumer protection. as legislators, we have to stimulate innovation, not kill it in regulation. the digital transformation of the internal market is a huge challenge, but the us and china will not wait for europe. finally, the fourth issue where the eu needs to do more is on free trade. europe itself is a testament to how trade liberalisation brings both prosperity and peace among free people. it is our duty to safeguard free trade, even when we find ourselves under historic pressure. in the us, the land of dreams, they are now dreaming of less free trade, of fewer international obligations, of barriers to trade and perhaps even of breaking up the international rules-based trading system. we must not allow that to happen and it has become increasingly clear that only europe will be able to prevent it. my fellow europeans, i started my speech by saying that the european union must be justified by more than the memory of division and war, but that doesn’t mean that we should forget about the past. in contrast to my parents, i didn’t witness the two world wars; i witnessed the cold war, but i also witnessed the end of it 28 years ago. on 2 october 1990, my wife and i fastened the seatbelts in our wrecked volvo and headed for berlin. we took the ferry to rostock and we reached the brandenburger tor at midnight, just in time to witness the official reunification of germany. in my old passport, there are two stamps from that trip: one from 2 october saying ‘rostock, ddr’, the other from 3 october saying ‘rostock, bundesrepublik deutschland’. to me, these stamps prove that even the deepest wounds can be healed and that europe must always strive to fulfil its potential – together and in peace.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, honourable prime minister rasmussen, honourable members, good after midday. before moving today’s discussion on the future of europe, let me come back to the point which president tajani raised at the beginning of this plenary, namely concerning the situation in ukraine. escalating tensions in the azov sea over the past days have led to the seizure of ukrainian vessels and shots being fired at them by russia, as well as injuries to a number of ukrainian servicemen. these developments are unacceptable and we expect russia to immediately release the vessels and the crew and to ensure the medical assistance needed is given to the ukrainian servicemen. international law obliges the russian federation to ensure unhindered and free passage of all vessels through the kerch strait. therefore we expect russia to restore freedom of passage at the kerch strait. as you know, the eu does not and will not recognise the illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula by russia and condemns its aggression towards ukraine. high representative federica mogherini has been in touch with several partners since this escalation started, and will continue to engage on this issue with a view to a broader international response. the eu’s political and security committee also met earlier this week to discuss the situation and the next steps. (applause) mr president, now let me move to today’s discussion on the future of europe. speaking on behalf of president juncker, who is on his way to buenos aires for the g20 meeting, allow me to start by thanking prime minister rasmussen for taking part in today’s debate on the future of the union. at the start of this year we celebrated 45 years since denmark joined the european union. in that time denmark has given the union so much, from its effective social model, its growth-friendly business environment and its well-functioning social dialogue to the richness of its culture. it was denmark that pioneered a successful model for labour markets, combining flexibility with a high degree of social protection. in a political sphere danish leadership was also as visible. as a latvian i well remember that denmark was among the first countries to recognise latvia’s restoration of independence in 1991; it was a concrete expression of european solidarity. this support continued and together with other nordic countries, denmark provided important political backing for the accession of the baltic states in 2004. this leadership role has continued since the crisis. for instance, in the post-crisis period denmark was quick to implement difficult but effective public spending controls. crucially this was achieved by still maintaining the second highest level of social protection spending in the eu. this serves as a good example of how prudent fiscal policy is compatible with the delivery of high-quality public services. more recently, denmark has been working hard to further improve competitiveness and increase productivity. ultimately it is productivity gains that will allow for continued improvements in living standards. that too is a lesson for all countries to draw on. these are good economic times. europe’s economy is now entering its sixth year of uninterrupted growth. employment has risen to a record level of 239 million people and unemployment has fallen back to pre-crisis levels, helping more than 10 million people out of poverty or social exclusion. but we cannot become complacent. external risks are there and mounting while at the same time important reforms remain incomplete. the current economic sunshine is an opportunity for us to finish what we have started before the next storm arrives. completing reforms is not just a matter of individual countries. building a stronger, more democratic and more united union will require us to stay close and build trust with one another. as president juncker said in his state of the union address, europe succeeds when it speaks with one voice. now more than ever, global events highlight the importance of this message. the reality is that european nations have neither the size nor the means to shape global affairs on their own and the strength is only going in one direction. by 2060, no single european nation will have more than 1% of the world’s population. this is why european countries, big or small, pool and share their sovereignty to build a stronger form of common sovereignty. as part of the world’s largest single market, and a bloc which accounts for a fifth of the global economy, each country is better placed to defend its national interests and to ensure fairness and prosperity for its people. this pooling of sovereignty begins with a single market, a concept that denmark has embraced and made the most of since 1973. last week we presented the communication to highlight the achievements of the single market over the past 25 years, but we also stressed the need to improve and deepen it for our future prosperity. this is why we have set out our road map for deepening economic and monetary union. a strong economic and monetary union is vital to the stability and prospects of the euro area, but as the prime minister has often said, it is equally important for the european union as a whole. in that spirit, denmark has played an active and positive role in the debate on strengthening our economic and monetary union, but now it is time to move from debate to decision in order to strengthen the resilience of the euro area. this means completing the banking union, which denmark might decide to join soon, and completing the capital markets’ union on which the commission adopted a report today. strengthening the single market and economic and monetary union also means strengthening the role the euro plays in the global currency system. even if denmark remains outside the currency area, its peg to the euro has given it a solid anchor for low and stable inflation and to reduce uncertainty in trade. this is true for denmark, as it is true for many other countries. countries across the globe rely on the euro as a safe store of value. around 20% of international reserves of foreign central banks are denominated in euros. yet there is scope for the further development of the euro’s global political role. recent political events should serve as a wake-up call in this area. now it’s time for us to take the initiative. the commission will put out a communication and an accompanying act on this important issue next week. last but not least, if we want to be truly ready for the future, we need to invest in it now. we need to plan together with a common purpose. this is why we have focused our proposals for the new multiannual financial framework on areas where we can achieve more together and which are crucial to denmark’s and europe’s future. our proposal is balanced. as denmark and others have called for, we have put forward programmes that are modern, more efficient and more focused on urgent priorities. for instance, there has been almost a three-fold increase in funding for migration and security to make sure that europe can protect its citizens. funding for research and innovation, of which denmark is one of the highest recipients, will be increased by 50% to reach eur 100 billion. we have proposed a new digital europe programme worth eur 9 billion to support europe’s digital transformation, and we will also ensure that 25% of the budget will support our climate and sustainable development targets. but, just as we cannot delay or postpone our future, we should not lose time in agreeing on the resources needed to bring that future alive. as president juncker said, there would be no better message, no greater symbol to europeans that their union will invest in the future and take its destiny in its own hands. to conclude, when we think about the future of europe, we should perhaps recall an old and wise danish saying, ‘making predictions is hazardous, especially about the future’. but there are two things i feel confident in predicting. firstly if we are going to protect our citizens, harness the benefits of a rapidly changing world and create more opportunities for more prosperity, we will have to remain strong and united. and my second prediction is that denmark will continue to play a positive role for shaping a better, stronger, european future.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to welcome the prime minister to the european parliament. denmark has been a member of the european union for 45 years – valdis dombrovskis was referring to this – so that gives you a lot of knowledge and a lot of experience about the future of europe and what the experience of the danish people and danish society on europe has been in the last decades. as you said, it was not always easy with europe in denmark and the maastricht treaty, but finally there was always a clear ‘yes’ to membership and to readiness to contribute to positive development. i was surprised when i saw the eurobarometer data, which said that denmark is a country where the people say that their voice counts the most in europe. so denmark is in first place and public involvement in the european decision-making process is obviously working very well in denmark. congratulations on this because i think that the most important thing for the future of europe is the bridge between the european decision-making process and the people of europe. you said it: some call us bureaucrats and some call us elites. people have the feeling that, after the votes in the elections next year, nothing will have changed. some people will have been removed, but nothing will have changed in the political direction. i think that is the key question. when we talk about brexit and the lesson we have to learn from brexit, it is about getting sovereignty back. people want to have a say. people must know that their voice counts at a european level. that’s why i welcome the ideas in this regard to make it clearer to people what we are doing here. i want to strongly underline that the most important issue for the future of europe is – and i think all of us here in this plenary agree – the field of foreign affairs and defence. russia is giving us a concrete case at the moment where we have to give a proper answer as europeans together. for us it is clear that the ukrainians must decide about their way towards the future, whether they want to go in the direction of the european union or whether they see their future more in the east. it is up to kiev to decide. it is not for russia, not for moscow and not for brussels, but for kiev to decide. i also want to underline that we urgently need a common voice in these fields of external affairs. we understand that unanimous voting is an old concept. we have to come to the majority decision—making process in this field to be stronger and more active. finally, on the russian thing, i want to underline that, when russia is still provoking europe and european partners and friends, i think we also have to rethink the investments on nord stream 2. i do not think we should be more dependent on russian gas than we already are now, and it should be a european decision-making process when we talk about nord stream 2. we have a lot of these points on the table. i only want to mention the key issues. when we want to discuss a europe for the future, we have to defend europe. that’s why the schengen question, the border protection issue – in my home region between germany and austria, but also in the danish-german border region – is not something which is good for the future. that’s why we should invest in frontex. let’s protect the bulgarian and the greek border with turkey. that would be much more efficient and would also bring the same effect. another element is to continue to convince – you had all of the decisions about europol in your country where people didn’t trust cooperation on data exchange – and to strengthen the data exchange for more security and for the fight against organised crime at a european level. prime minister, i thank you for your engagement in this regard to try still to convince the danish people that it is in all of our interests to have this data exchange and, finally, to strengthen europe. yes, the single market is the future. in this period, frankly speaking, we did not do much to strengthen the single market, or only the digital single market but not the rest. we have to be more engaged in this. you have the full support of the epp. we have to create prosperity and that’s why free and fair trade agreements are the future of this continent. we have to do so. you have the full support of the epp. finally, let me switch to german. ich möchte nämlich am schluss einen grundsätzlichen gedanken anbringen: die sorge der menschen, wie es weitergeht auf dem kontinent, wird zum einen durch populisten mit einfachen antworten bedient, aber wir haben leider auch die situation, dass einfach schuldige gesucht werden. der antisemitismus auf diesem kontinent nimmt zu, sowohl in meinem land, in deutschland, als auch in frankreich, in großbritannien, in vielen staaten sind die entwicklungen beunruhigend. ich habe letzte woche auschwitz besucht. man wird dort an diesem ort still, es ist kalt dort, die tötungsmaschine der nazideutschen hat dort ihr unsägliches werk vollbracht. ich spreche das deswegen an, weil es auch der gründungsimpuls für europa war. simone veil war die erste präsidentin dieser institution und auschwitz-überlebende. sie hat beim vierzigsten jahrestag der befreiung von auschwitz in einer rede gesagt, dass der gründungsimpuls für europa das „nie wieder!“ war. „nie wieder krieg!“, so wie sie es angesprochen haben. aber auch nie wieder rassismus, antisemitismus, ausgrenzung, kein respekt vor den menschenrechten. auch das war das gründungsmoment für die europäische union. warum spreche ich das heute an? weil ich in den unterlagen gesehen habe, dass in dänemark 99 % aller juden den holocaust überlebt haben. dänemark hat gehandelt. in dänemark sind die menschen aufgestanden und haben den juden einen weg aus dem land heraus ermöglicht und haben sie gerettet, die bürgergesellschaft hat sie gerettet, die werte hochgehalten, die europa ausmachen. ich finde das, gerade wenn wir über die zukunft europas reden, einen wichtigen gedanken, dass menschen, dass wir zu unseren werten stehen, dass wir sie verteidigen, auch in dunklen zeiten, und da ist dänemark ein vorbild.
mr president, i would like to say to the prime minister: you mentioned brexit and i would like to take you up on the subject. today the uk’s economic institutions have projected the impact of brexit on the british economy, and it is a disaster. less known is the fact that there will also be a significant impact on the european economy. you mentioned that there were numerous referenda in denmark, that there were special deals for denmark, there were opt-outs for denmark. on 8 december the british parliament will decide on the new deal. it is possible that the new deal will be rejected. mr prime minister, this would be your hour because you could lean on brussels and make sure that brussels offers britain a new deal. a new deal, possibly, on freedom of movement, which will enable the remainers to get some more dynamic support in britain, and it will offer the brexiteers a face-saving way out. so it increases the chances of a second referendum. i think one thing we can learn from denmark: a democracy which ceases to learn, ceases to be a democracy.
member of the commission. – mr president, today we have the opportunity to talk about the communication we have just issued on the single market. in march, maybe some of you remember, the european council asked us to present the state of play of the single market. they called on us to assess the remaining barriers, but also to set out opportunities for the future. of course, there are more reasons why we decided to and why we needed to put this out right now. first, and most obviously, because this parliament has six months left in this term and this commission has just under one year. it is right to tell citizens and businesses where each of us stands. it is right that they know what the commission has done and what the co-legislators have done so far. second, because everyone in this room knows that the single market and the freedoms of the single market are really under threat today. third, because there is no time to lose: what i hear again and again from businesses and entrepreneurs is that every minute we delay in creating the true single market is really an extra minute for our competitors in asia or in the united states. we need to revive the case for the single market. we need to shift the narrative from the traditional – completing the single market – to the new one: the single market as a tool to improve the lives of our citizens, raise our industrial competitiveness, to boost our standing and influence in the world. the traditional narrative of completing the single market really means only ticking the boxes, and this is what really, really a lot of bureaucrats do, but this is not really what we need right now in this moment of history. our communication shows that there are very real benefits for our citizens and for businesses, not just in terms of jobs, not just in terms of more growth, but also in terms of freedoms and opportunities for people’s lives. it shows also three main areas where we really need to do more. these areas are as follows: first, we need to adopt the proposals on the table. we have put forward, as a commission, proposals only where there were the highest priority and all of them passed the most strict impact assessment. we have not flooded both parliament and the council with the new proposals, but still the statistics are stark. for instance, out of 67 proposals from the commission directly relevant to the proper functioning of the single market, 44, for now, have still not been agreed by parliament and the council. the situation is especially bad on services and on capital markets and the banking union. we also need to agree on some key proposals for our digital single market, for example, copyright, e-privacy and platforms to business, just to name a few. we have four months to remedy this. we have four months to find truly intelligent compromises. secondly, we need to ensure that the rules deliver in practice. the single market needs everybody in the eu to play by the agreed rules. let me just mention two words: defeat devices. i am currently dealing with over 1 000 infringement cases and this is over 1 000 unfair limitations on our citizens and on our businesses. i don’t exempt businesses from the criticism either. we recently, for example, found out that 40% of websites do not allow customers from other member states to conclude purchases online. geo-blocking: our geo-blocking regulation enters into force next week, and it needs to be implemented very swiftly. third, a real third point, we must continue adapting the single market so that it really fits a changing economy. we have to be more precise on how services become more important because they complement products or replace products. we need to be more ambitious in integrating digital technology in our traditional service sectors. the single market for services, as we all know, does not work as well as the single market for goods, but it offers really great opportunities and it shows enormous untapped potential. we need to look more at how the single market supports our trade agenda and we need to reflect more on how to be much more consistent and ambitious on enforcement and how this fits with our competition rules. let me conclude by saying that of course i understand that these are not easy issues. i understand that they take political courage and they need strong leadership, but time and again, i hear representatives of different institutions and different member states declaring their belief in the single market outside the negotiating room. once they enter this negotiation room, the proposals are blocked or watered down. decent proposals are blocked or watered down. when the european council addresses or discusses the future of the single market next month, i hope that the leaders will renew their commitments, not only in words but also in deeds, and i hope that they will show true leadership on this.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am pleased that, with this communication, the commission has once again made it clear, a few months before the european elections, that the single market and cooperation between the economies of the 28 member states hold the potential for prosperity that gives us growth in europe and is ultimately responsible for the prosperity of almost 500 million citizens in europe. unfortunately, you can only show this in numbers, and numbers always go a long way to losing emotion. but to cut a long story short: the reason we are doing so well in europe today - and this is statistically true for all member states on average, even if many citizens do not want to admit it - is because we work together in europe, because very often we have only one european regulation instead of 28 different individual regulations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. that is why the single market means less bureaucracy. this is of course particularly true in view of what the commissioner has said, namely that the member states, the economic stakeholders concerned, always point out in their external discussions how strongly they are in favour of the internal market, but when it comes to the concrete, they have difficulty. we have seen this with the commission's service package. but i can also point out, of course, that the european parliament has worked hard to ensure that, despite some opposition from the council, we have at least made two of the proposals that were ultimately subject to precisely this opposition in the member states, capable of obtaining a majority. i therefore believe that in the coming years we will have to emphasise much more that the internal market is not just the responsibility of the commissioner for the internal market, that the internal market is not just dg grow, but that the internal market is characterised by many other responsibilities within the european commission, all of which must work together in order to convince the european member states to do so.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. we have a global economic reality, shaped by global value chains. it is really about rules for these global value chains. it is about ensuring that there are decent working conditions at all levels of these global value chains. all of this is really saying that we need more international rules, more multilateral rules. the wto is obviously involved. on the other hand, we have the tendency for individual countries to fall short of these very necessary rules. that is why one of the first statements in our report is to call on all the partners, all 164 partners in the wto, not to question this set of rules but to develop them further. this is of course particularly true of the united states, which still blocks the functioning of the wto's jurisdiction and the re-nomination and re-appointment of judges, and which also does not accept and respect the wto's rules in other areas of its trade policy. if schools fail to accept rules, then of course the whole system breaks down, and this has immense political and economic consequences. that is why it is so important that we now proceed to preserve this instrument, but at the same time to develop it further, because we see, of course, that this instrument, which was set up in 1994, needs reform. we therefore want to go the reform route and support the commission's activities in all three areas, saying: we need to review the rules, both to see that development can be promoted for less developed countries, but also to integrate new elements such as electronic commerce, so that we also have a modern world trade organisation rulebook. we must also look again at the functioning of the judiciary, the second pillar of the wto. i would like to ask whether it is possible to bring in more transparency, to speed up the processes and to reform the nomination and the functioning of the court so that criticisms are addressed. thirdly, we must also look at the working methods. to think that all 164 partners can decide everything together, this single undertaking, i think, is an illusion. we need to develop flexible methods of facing in, as we have done with the trade facility agreement and other agreements, so that groups of countries can go forward without leaving other countries behind, and also making sure that each country has the opportunity to participate, that is, to organize capacity building, so that dynamics can be brought back into the negotiation process. all in all, of course, we have to ensure that the wto is also coherent with other international challenges, such as the global sustainability goals and the sdgs, and that these are also integrated.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not we need a world trade organization that guarantees fair trade. today, international corporations often dictate events that are sometimes far from fair. we have, for example, a highly subsidized production of milk and chicken meat. if we export this, the local farmers cannot keep up with the prices; they are deprived of the basis of their livelihood. our free trade agreements allow for land grabs, which drive farmers from their traditional territory. we get cheap commodities, like coffee, cocoa and so on, from these countries from areas that should be there to grow food for their own population. this is what is creating refugee flows. the reform of the world trade organisation can help.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a stronger link between the wto and the ilo, and between unctad and other international organisations, is important and necessary for the maintenance and strengthening of a binding, rules-based and transparent international system, one-to-one across the whole multilateral trading architecture. the rules of the game and the decisions should not be made by the economically stronger side, but rather partnership and a problem-solving approach should be the guiding principle for action, including in the reform of the wto, including wto jurisdiction. the wto's sustainability clearly requires us to answer the question of how far we, as parliament and government, are able to contain and regulate global value creation processes and the actions of transnational corporations and financial groups in the interests of people and the environment.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already done so. there are more and more people who are very critical of globalization. there are many causes for this, as regards their own perspective on life and the possibility of shaping the future. the question then is, what is the solution to these fears? there are some who think that we should go back to the nation state and organize everything there. i firmly believe that in today's world, that is an absolute illusion. we can only shape our future together and then we need strong international rules. that's what it's all about: providing a framework for this globalization so that it can empower people's lives. if you look at the world, there is basically only one institution: the wto, which organizes equal voting rights for countries and has a single jurisdiction. 96% of the judgments are upheld. we don't have that at the un, we don't have that at any other global institution. this is a good thing, and we should really defend it, expand it and build on it. that we really have roadmaps for globalisation that can fairly shape the interests of nations in terms of sustainable development. i think we also need to have a much more public discussion about what kind of opportunity we have with this. the wto is a bit of a shadow. she's not so much the center of attention. i think we all need to work on saying, this is an instrument that we want to develop together, so that globalization can be done in a fair way.
in writing. i voted for this report. in a world where we are again faced with punitive and protective tariffs, the wto has an important role to play in continuing to shape world trade. since its inception, the wto has made a significant contribution to strengthening multilateralism, promoting an inclusive world economic order and strengthening an open, rules-based and non-discriminatory multilateral trading system. nevertheless, the wto must also adapt to the times. global value chains, digital trade, environmental and societal challenges, to name a few, are areas where the wto needs to catch up.
rapporteur. – mr president, let me start by thanking the shadow rapporteurs, who are all present here tonight, for this report. let me also welcome commissioner hahn and thank him personally for his dedication and good work in the western balkans region. today we are debating the european parliament’s last annual report on serbia in this legislative term. it has often been said, including in this chamber, that serbia is moving towards the european union. i would like to underline this by looking back at the beginning of this legislature in 2014, when the accession negotiations had just started and, concerning the opening of chapters, serbia literally started from zero. today, four and a half years later, 14 chapters have been opened in the negotiation process while two have already been provisionally closed. i sincerely hope that at least three more chapters will be opened at the intergovernmental conference in december. three points are of utmost importance on serbia’s path towards the european union. firstly, the rule of law. i would like to use this opportunity to recall that serbia’s progress on the rule of law – chapters 23 and 24 – remains essential for the overall pace of the negotiating process. judicial independence has to be assured in practice. corruption and organised crime still remain an obstacle, not only to serbia’s but to all western balkan countries’ democratic, social and economic development. on another note, i agree with the european commission and the council on guaranteeing unhindered exercise of the freedom of expression and media. shortcomings in this area should be addressed as a matter of priority. secondly, the economy. the criteria for membership are intended to help serbia to stand on its own feet and become fit for the european union, the common market, and for the global economy in general. the government in belgrade is implementing an impressive agenda of economic and structural reforms. this has already yielded results in terms of growth prospects and reduction of domestic and external imbalances. thirdly, regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations. we all know serbia’s eu accession process is closely linked to the normalisation of relations with kosovo. agreements need to be concluded and, afterwards, implemented. that said, both sides – belgrade and priština – should continue to move forward with the full implementation of the already—reached agreements in good faith and in a timely manner. serbia and kosovo have expressed on many occasions concerns about their relations. the format where these concerns should be addressed is the brussels dialogue. the decision of the kosovo government to increase tax on goods from serbia and from bosnia and herzegovina to 100% clearly violates the cefta agreement and the spirit of the eu—kosovo stabilisation and association agreement. i call on the government in priština to revoke this decision immediately. a final remark – effective communication is key. we, as the european union, are by far the most important donor in the western balkans. we are engaged in several thousand projects to support reform efforts and assist in preparations for eu membership. if too many people in the region are voicing a sentiment of being left alone by the eu, we need to take this seriously. it shows that there is an urgent need for the european union to communicate effectively about the extent of our engagement.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, state secretary, again thank you for this very interesting and ultimately encouraging debate, which reflects the importance of the enlargement process and of our relations with serbia. i fully appreciate the sensitivity of bilateral issues. clearly, further efforts will be needed to overcome the legacy of the past and to foster trust and reconciliation. at the same time we should ensure that bilateral issues don’t hamper the firm prospect of eu membership, which continues to drive transformation and anchor stability and security in serbia and elsewhere in the region. today this is more important than ever. at the same time we should focus on good neighbourly relations, democratic values and respect for the rule of law, protection of national minorities, freedom of expression and of the media, the ability to address the legacy of the past, and war crimes issues. those are core european values and these are simply not negotiable. thank you for your attention and also for your strong commitment.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, to conclude, i would like to thank honourable members very much for this really useful debate. i have listened attentively to the views expressed. we look forward to continuing this constructive dialogue and engagement. when moving ahead in the accession process with serbia, i would like to assure you that we closely monitor its progress, paying particular attention to the area of the rule of law, freedom of the media, the belgrade—priština dialogue and the other important issues which were mentioned here today.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, madam secretary of state, mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking you both for your kind words and for the factual information you have given me on my report. i should also like to thank all the members who took part in this debate, which i consider to be largely very objective. i thank you for the praise, i thank you also for the critical remarks. i would like to expressly welcome the ambassador of the republic of serbia, mrs hrustanović, to the podium, who, i believe, has also seen today that in this debate we have made it clear across party lines that we are ready to support serbia positively on a long, not always easy but steady path towards the european union. i think there's a lot of potential in this country. serbia is a european nation of culture. i am particularly pleased that this country is clearly moving in a pro-european direction. i think it is important, madam secretary of state, that in december, when the council meets, the member states decide to open further chapters so that the reform process can continue to receive active support in serbia. i would like to thank you once again for the good cooperation and for the many amendments which we have put together in compromises. it would be nice if we could adopt this report tomorrow by a large parliamentary majority, to make it clear that the european parliament stands with the pro-european forces in this great country.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the prespa agreement is a key towards a more hopeful future for the macedonian people. it is a vital step in building the bridges that the western balkans needs in order to overcome old divisions. it paves the way towards the eu integration of macedonia and it helps europe to continue shaping its common fate together, and to reject foreign interference. i thank all the members of the macedonian parliament who facilitated the progress that we are cherishing here, and i hope that next june we will be able to celebrate having a date for the opening of accession talks. the way forward is still going to be challenging but i’m optimistic that the hurdles can be overcome.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i think that one thing that developments in macedonia have shown us very clearly is that we need courageous politicians and we need courageous government. if you believe something is right and good for the country, you have to be willing to stand up for it when the wind blows in your face. this is not the case for politicians who look at the polling results in the morning and then act accordingly. leadership was needed in this country, and leadership has been given. i would like the european council to rise to a similar standard.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am glad that the debate on the albania report falls today, on albania's independence day, and i would like to extend my warmest congratulations to the people of albania and the diaspora, including you. before tomorrow's vote, i would first like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups for their very constructive cooperation. i have tried to take up the main points of each group. i am therefore confident that we will reach a high degree of agreement on the content of the report when we vote tomorrow. i should like to address the main messages which we, as the committee on foreign affairs, wish to send to our albanian partners, but also to the council and the commission, with this resolution. it is now more than four years since albania was officially recognised by the eu as a candidate country for eu membership. we stress that this must be reflected in practical reality and support the european commission's recommendation to open accession negotiations with albania. we also note the council decision taken before the summer and welcome the clear path shown at the start of these negotiations. we expect - and can expect - that the albanian government will use the time until then to make all the necessary arrangements for the negotiations. we also expect the council to keep its word and to take the appropriate decision in june next year, because anything else would be incomprehensible and counterproductive as regards the role and credibility of the european union in the region. of course, this report is also and primarily a contribution to the albanian government and the opposition in terms of the work that still needs to be done in the country and the work that has been done so far. i think it is important to point out that these reform efforts must always have one objective: to improve the practical reality of life for the people on the ground and not to do something good for a commissioner or a member of parliament or members in general. in view of what has already been achieved, it must be stated that albania has earned the opening of accession negotiations by implementing the required reforms on the key priorities above all the very ambitious judicial reform, which goes beyond what was originally requested by the commission. they show clear results: the vetting process in the judicial sector is well underway and is not only showing initial results but also has a deterrent effect for the future. it could be a good model for all governments in the region who are still looking for ways to implement their judicial reform. let me conclude by making two points. we urgently need a reform of the electoral law. it is imperative that this reform be implemented in line with the osce recommendation, and that it be implemented before the 2019 local elections. and i am very happy and i hope that i can continue to be so that the two chairmen of the ad hoc committee from the democratic party and the socialist party will find a common way to make a good proposal. we should certainly support them in this. we must encourage albania to continue on the path of reforms it has embarked upon, because that is precisely the path to strong democratic institutions and a functioning rule of law leading to the eu. i look forward to the vote tomorrow.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to make just three comments. the first point concerns minorities. we have agreed that we do not specify minority rights for individual minorities, but that they must apply to all and therefore be written down for all. however, and you know this, there will be a motion which will deal specifically with the killing of the albanian citizen of greek origin and will ask questions. but to talk about ethnic cleansing is way too much for me. secondly, mr jakovčić, i too sometimes get scared and wonder if a country cannot be admitted to the eu because the opposition is not ready yet. we only know that when the government does nothing, does not make reforms and so on. but sometimes the opposition needs to be reminded that it has not only rights but also duties, and that it must fulfil them in order to give the country as a whole a face that makes it possible to enter. and commissioner hahn, if i have understood you correctly - you have put it very diplomatically - you may have been referring to recent events. and i agree with you, if you have big hands, you can handle big tasks, but you should probably leave some finger games out.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, honourable members, chief negotiator barnier, ladies and gentlemen, the european council endorsed the agreement of the withdrawal of the uk from the eu and euratom. the european council then invited the commission, the european parliament and the council to take the necessary steps to ensure that the agreement can enter into force on 30 march 2019. the european council also approved the political declaration setting out the framework for the future relationship between the eu and the uk. on that occasion, the union’s determination to have as close as possible a partnership with the uk in the future was restated in line with that declaration. this outcome would not have been possible without the commitment and the determination of mr barnier and his team, to which the european council paid tribute. no less important was the sense of unity, shared purpose and responsibility amongst the eu’s 27 member states, as well as amongst the eu institutions. on this particular occasion, i should like to express my appreciation for the constant involvement and timely contribution of the brexit steering group and, more broadly, the european parliament. in the coming months we will have to secure the conclusion of the withdrawal agreement. the council is doing its utmost to adopt its decision on signature in the coming weeks, which should allow the ep to complete its consent procedure in good time, before the end of march 2019.
chief negotiator on brexit. madam president, madam secretary of state, ladies and gentlemen, hello to each and every one of you. i thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak on behalf of the european commission and i ask you to apologise to president juncker, who is currently attending the g20 summit. madam president, we are at an important and serious moment, seventeen months after the start of the negotiations, which i had the honour and have the honour of leading under the authority and with the confidence of president juncker and with the support of the whole european commission. on sunday, as you recalled, madam secretary of state, the european council approved our draft withdrawal agreement. it also approved the political declaration which sets the framework for our future relationship. at this stage, i would like to thank the european council, its president, donald tusk, all its teams, but also the successive presidents with whom i have worked and worked well, the austrian presidency today, but also bulgaria, estonia and malta. then we will continue with romania in the coming months. ladies and gentlemen, the time for negotiations on the withdrawal agreement and the political declaration is over. now is the time for ratification by the british parliament, by your parliament and by the council. given the difficult circumstances of these negotiations and the extreme complexity of all the issues surrounding this british withdrawal, the agreement on the table - the draft orderly withdrawal and the political declaration - is the only and best possible one. we have achieved this first major step together and, on the european side, thanks to the very strong unity of the 27 member states and all the institutions among them. in particular, madam president, the withdrawal agreement and this political declaration owe a great deal to your four resolutions and the careful vigilance you have shown since the start of these negotiations, of course, to safeguard the rights of the citizens you represent - that was your priority, that was my priority - to safeguard the interests of the european union, the integrity of the single market and the indivisibility of the four freedoms, and the union's decision-making autonomy. these two documents, we co-constructed them together throughout the process. madam president, through you i would also like to thank president tajani and you will allow me to say a personal word to guy verhofstadt, coordinator of your assembly for brexit, and to each and every member of the brexit steering group, danuta hübner, elmar brok, roberto gualtieri, gabriele zimmer and philippe lamberts who followed with all their teams, whom i thank, the day-to-day negotiations within this steering group. i also thank the group chairmen, the committee chairmen and cecilia wikström, knowing that we are not at the end of a long road which will remain difficult. the agreement reached on sunday is also the result of a method we decided together with you. we put things in order, starting - as was logical - with negotiating the withdrawal agreement, an orderly withdrawal, before discussing the framework for our future relationship with the united kingdom. we have insisted on settling upstream certain issues which were and still are a priority for your parliament, namely the rights of citizens, peace and stability in ireland and the financial regulation. ladies and gentlemen, from the outset we have worked mainly in full transparency, that is to say with confidence, and we will continue to do so. this method allowed us to explain the challenges of each subject, to show what was possible and what was not, taking into account the fundamental principles of our union. from the outset we have explained how we can and must respect our principles and at the same time take account of the red lines officially set by the united kingdom. finally, we found common ground. in short, the framework we have set has given stability and predictability to this negotiation. no one can be objectively surprised by the content of our agreement. ladies and gentlemen, it may be useful to recall at this point that the european union did not want brexit. so far, no one else has been able to demonstrate to me the added value of brexit, but we respect the democratic and sovereign vote of the british people and so we have, as the british government has asked, put this process in place for an orderly exit. the two documents approved on sunday simply limit the negative consequences of brexit for both sides but also, in particular, for the 27 member states of the union. the withdrawal agreement provides legal certainty for all people, businesses and regions concerned about the consequences of the uk's decision to leave the european union: of course, european citizens, the 4.5 million people living in the uk and uk citizens living in any of the eu countries; the people and businesses of ireland and northern ireland, madam president, who are involved in all the human, social and economic dimensions of north-south cooperation. the last resort solution we agreed to avoid the return of a physical border to ireland while protecting the single market is an integral part of the withdrawal agreement. without this solution for ireland, there is no withdrawal agreement. the local authorities, universities and companies that are carrying out so many projects financed by european policies and budgets, including with british partners, universities and the extremely dynamic laboratories in the united kingdom. farmers who benefit from the common agricultural policy and who legitimately wanted to protect their intellectual property rights, and much more than that, through geographical indications. and then, everyone whose personal data has been shared with uk-based organisations or companies. these are the people and sectors for whom we had a duty to put security where brexit has created insecurity. this is the subject of this very dense withdrawal agreement. i agree with it because it is a legal, precise and comprehensive treaty. the political declaration sets out the framework within which we shall, as soon as possible, negotiate our future relationship. ladies and gentlemen, in these negotiations the european union will continue to defend its interests and apply exactly the same principles. in the negotiations which are about to begin, the union will adopt the same attitude as your negotiator. there will never be and there never has been any aggression. there never will be and there never has been a spirit of revenge. there never will be and there never has been from me any spirit of punishment. we will continue to work with the united kingdom, not against it, to build this future partnership and we will continue to work with the respect due to a great country which will remain our friend, our partner and our ally in any event. the truth about this future relationship is that, given the uk's decision to leave the european union and the single market, this cannot be the status quo in the future. this cannot be business as usual and it is our duty to say this, especially to businesses, who must prepare. but it is in our mutual interest to build an ambitious partnership on goods, services, digital, mobility, transport, public procurement, energy, internal security - obviously - for the stability of our continent, foreign policy with this country which will remain active in the un security council, defence and in many other areas. the more ambitious this partnership is, the more attentive and demanding we will be in terms of the conditions of competition between us. in sum, if we implement this political declaration in all these dimensions, let me tell you - and i am sure that we will - the partnership with the united kingdom will be unprecedented in terms of the scope and number of areas of cooperation. as president juncker has requested and as the member states and your parliament have requested, we will prepare and be ready to launch this negotiation on the future relationship once the united kingdom becomes a third country. but before that, madam president, there is of course one decisive step to be taken, namely the ratification of our withdrawal agreement. now is the time for everyone to take responsibility. the british parliamentarians will have to vote on the withdrawal agreement and the text of the political declaration in the coming weeks, and this vote is about the future of their country. we must respect and i will respect this debate and this time of parliamentary and democratic debate in the united kingdom. we must leave the ratification process to the european parliament, which has been and will remain closely involved in every stage of the negotiations and which will have the final say. ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your trust and attention.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. brexit is a bad thing, for us in the european union and for britain -- more for britain because of the size difference than for us, but also for us. that is why, as guy verhofstadt - whom i thank for his cooperation - has correctly analysed, sunday was a sad day. but thanks to the negotiating skills of michel barnier and his team, his patience and his information policy within the european union, we were able to get the best possible deal. i have to say that in britain, the government is divided, the ruling party is divided, the opposition is divided, the country is divided. this european union, which is supposed to be at its end, was united with 27 countries, with the council, the commission and parliament, and parliament was united too. this european union has a great future; it has proved that in these brexit negotiations. we must see to it that we minimize this damage to the united kingdom, as was made clear once again yesterday by the bank of england, for example, that there will be greater growth losses in the united kingdom as a result of brexit than as a result of the financial damage of 2008. this is the bank of england statement from yesterday. mr farage, who is mr trump's speechwriter, can explain what he wants to do, continue to lie to his country. it won't change the facts. we must see that this means - and i believe the european parliament supports this - that there will be no further negotiations. it's this deal and no other. we cannot do it again, not by the method of 'refuse once more, then we will negotiate again, and then there will be a new deal'. this is an agreement that has been negotiated for a long time. and for that reason, it must be clear that the withdrawal agreement is a condition for a transitional arrangement. i have the impression that some people in britain are not clear about this. if the withdrawal agreement is not signed, there will be no transition. the breach will be like thunder for both sides. we must see that this treaty also makes it clear that it is a difficult and risky matter for the remainers to reject this treaty now and then perhaps before 29 march to get something else, including a referendum. i think this is a very dangerous undertaking. for safety reasons, to keep the damage to a minimum, you should take this deal. that's why i'm appealing to both sides in britain in this game. we have concluded that in order for the transitional arrangements to come about through this treaty, that the rights of citizens who have relied on the existence of the european union on both sides of the aisle in their personal life planning are guaranteed, that there will be no hard border with catastrophic human and economic consequences between northern ireland and the republic of ireland, and that we have agreed to a backstop which will not come into effect at all while the transitional period is running, and that we will then negotiate the future treaty without it coming into effect. the purpose of the backstop is to prevent it from taking effect. this must be clear, and therefore it must not be misused, not even in the discussions in the uk. i believe that we must conduct the future relations in the common interest - i repeat - in order to minimize the damage, with a great constructive awareness of the solution. the uk does not want a customs union because they want to make their own trade agreements. they do not want to be part of the single market because they do not want to fulfil the four freedoms. but anything that's possible after that, we should make possible. and that is why we should have a free trade agreement, which is very broad. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. but we should make it clear that this partnership agreement, which was initiated by the european parliament and is now included in the agreement - we called it an association agreement - is intended to cover this trade agreement to a large extent, but also issues of internal and external security. it is in our mutual interest that we make agreements in the fight against terrorism, that we have a possible participation of the united kingdom in a certain sense also in the common security and defence policy. both sides want this. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to fulfil its obligations under the treaty of amsterdam. this is also true of other areas such as research, when i see the situation of the british universities and how much they want to be in the research programme. let me make one final remark: mr farage writes mr trump's speeches, and mr trump said the day before yesterday that he wouldn't even make this withdrawal agreement because he doesn't want to negotiate with britain that way. mr trump wants all the european countries to be divided up, to be isolated, so that he can take them one by one, punch them in the teeth one by one and finish them off. this trump speech is the best reason why we need a european union in the future, so that our peoples can defend themselves together against the trumps and the putins and the xi. we will not let mr farage's speeches, which he writes for mr trump, destroy that.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the council agreed at its meeting last weekend to the divorce agreement negotiated between the eu and the uk. and yet, at this moment, no one can say whether that makes a smooth brexit more likely. it is therefore right that the eu and the member states prepare for the worst case scenario of a no-deal situation. our participation as a group in the brexit steering group and also in the very first resolution of parliament last year - april 2017 - was not a matter of course. the decision to take this platform with us, to join the work of the brexit steering group as a left-wing group, was the right one. and i would also like to say in this context that cooperation with michel barnier has set the standard for future cooperation between the institutions of the european union. but we must be clear: the divorce settlement is not a cause for celebration. we are concerned that, particularly in the area of civil rights and with regard to northern ireland, a number of our demands are not sufficiently anchored to provide sufficient legal certainty for those affected by brexit. what is not watertight in the withdrawal agreement cannot be remedied by declarations of intent. we are breathing a sigh of relief because the withdrawal agreement, the divorce agreement, the backstop, the contingency arrangement, was agreed to avoid a horror scenario in ireland. however, the backstop is not delivering what was promised in the joint report of december last year: the border that divides ireland will be tougher, the cross-border economy will be affected, rights enshrined in the good friday agreement will be minimized. we are also concerned about the way in which theresa may is trying to win the votes of sceptics, of critics from her own camp for the withdrawal agreement, the divorce agreement. it now promises to stop the jumping of migrants from eu member states to britain. it is clear that the british government - and with it not only the government but also some of the members sitting over here - have not understood the essence of european citizenship until today. they forget that they are also depriving their own citizens of rights, and they raise the reasonable suspicion that eu citizens who want to live, work or study in the uk after brexit could be disadvantaged and discriminated against by people from other countries in the world. at the weekend, the heads of government - and this has been mentioned here on several occasions - said that even after brexit, the uk and the eu wanted to maintain the closest possible partnership. we support that. but if these are not to be mere words, there is still much work to be done on both sides. as the european parliament, we should therefore - and here i fully agree with guy verhofstadt - continue to feel primarily committed to the interests of the citizens of the united kingdom, but also within the european union. we are also committed to the interests of uk citizens within the eu. i want to make that very clear again. we will continue to put this at the forefront, as will the question of northern ireland.
the next item is the debate on the council and commission statements on the preparation of the intergovernmental conference on the united nations global compact on migration to be held in marrakesh on 10 and 11 december (2018/2959 ((rsp)).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, high representative, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for this opportunity to discuss the issue again after the debate we had in strasbourg earlier this month. i’m aware that the delegation from parliament will be present in marrakech and that you attach great importance to this conference where the global compact of safe, orderly and regular migration is due to be politically endorsed. since the first draft of the global compact was put on the table, member states engaged in intensive discussions on this document in the council, both during the bulgarian and the austrian presidency. they also actively engaged in the discussions in new york. indeed, since the adoption of the new york declaration for refugees and migrants in september 2016, the eu has actively engaged in providing input at the various stages of preparation of the first draft of the global compact. as you are aware the council does not have a common position on this text. member states have decided or are in the process of deciding their national position on the global compact. the political endorsement of the global compact in the intergovernmental conference in marrakech followed by the adoption of this document by the un general assembly will open the way for the implementation phase. to conclude, i would recall that cooperation with third countries and regions remains a crucial element of the eu’s migration policy. the dialogues and the support we provide to our partners through a variety of instruments, including through the eu trust fund for africa, are testimony to our commitment to a policy that recognises the specific responsibilities, needs and concerns of countries of origin, transit and destination. i can assure you that the council and the presidency will continue to contribute to that purpose.
high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the european commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you all for your constant attention to this debate on the work of the united nations, but also on the subject of immigration, which is a crucial topic of our time and of our work, as a european institution, with the member states, the commission and parliament. madam president, i would like to i believe there are two mistakes we must not make when discussing the global compact, and one additional that i will mention later. the first one is to pretend that there is a clash between our national interests and the idea of a global compact. the opposite is true. if our national interest is to govern migration, and i believe it is of all of us to make it orderly, humane and sustainable, then the global compact is the most powerful tool we have to serve our national interests. the second mistake would be to tackle migration as a fight between the north and the south of the world: the developed and the developing countries. again, the opposite is true. let me just mention the fact that most of the countries are, at the same time - for example, in africa - countries of origin, of transit and of destination. again, as i said, the opposite is true. it's not north against south or south against north; we all share an interest in managing migration. we all have an interest in investing in sustainable development in the regions that need it most, and we all have an interest in creating regular pathways for human mobility. the sooner we realize that it's partnership and cooperation that we need, the better for all of us, because we're all in this together. no country can address it on its own, neither in europe nor elsewhere in the world, and all countries have an interest in addressing this effectively. we all support it. the un secretary general ban ki-moon's initiative to hold a high-level meeting on migration that was back at the un general assembly in 2016. then, we all, collectively and unanimously, adopted the new york declaration that launched the work on the two global battles on refugees and on migration. and that was an important achievement for us europeans, because in the midst of the migration crisis in europe -- i add -- in europe -- because we have to remind ourselves that there are migration crises every single day in every single part of the world -- but at that specific moment, after the summer of 2016, in the midst of the european migration crisis, europe -- us -- we called for the international community to engage, to build partnerships, and we received a positive response. and there the global compact process started. the european union took an early lead in the discussions on the global migration compact. we also participated from the beginning, actively, in the work leading to the clear common positions that are now before us, and this has allowed us to bring forward a global compact that largely reflects european objectives and that respects all our key concerns. i know that commissioner stylianides said it very clearly in the european parliament in the plenary session in strasbourg a couple of weeks ago. we regret the decision by some european union member states not to join or to support the global compact on migration. we do believe that all member states' interests are best served by supporting the proposed framework which will establish a basis for international cooperation and dialogue - that basis which was missing up to now and which we asked for: dialogue and cooperation which already lie at the basis of the first results which would need to be consolidated, which we have achieved as europeans, in the past years: reducing irregular arrivals, offering alternatives to migrants, bringing smugglers to justice and also tackling difficult topics, including return and readmission. results that were achieved by way of cooperation, partnership and mutual respect and understanding, with a strong role of the united nations all elements that are the basis of the global compact. there are some misconceptions in the debate on the global compact, as i said already. i would like to underline one that is self-evident to me, but perhaps we need to repeat it in view of the national debates that are going on. it is not a legally-binding framework. i think national parliaments in particular, but also the european parliament, have to acknowledge that from the very beginning: it is not legally binding. it will not create any legal obligation for the states. it is a menu of policy actions; it is a menu of best practices from which states may draw to implement their national migration policies in a cooperative way and in any international manner. it provides a framework. the compacts are built on this basis and are grounded on the respect of the principle of national and sovereign rights of states to determine their national migration policies. but they do provide that framework that is missing today, and that is definitely needed, as we europeans asked for it. we will continue to work to improve migration management worldwide, which is already done today on the european side, on the basis of the work strands that are developed under the global compact. we will, notably, continue our engagement with the international organisation for migration, who will lead the implementation and follow-up of the compact, which will involve sharing experiences, helping countries to overcome shortcomings, and searching for solutions to an issue that is global, by definition. we will also continue to support partnerships at bilateral, regional and global level in the area of migration. with our partners in the world, the migration compact will be an important basis for cooperation along what has been agreed as the common european union approach to migration. and that, as i said, is largely reflected in the compact. so here, our common work and your contribution as the european parliament will be essential. mr avramopoulos will be leading the commission delegation to marrakesh on 10 and 11 december, and i am very happy to see that members of the european parliament will join the european union delegation to the intergovernmental conference in marrakesh. i believe the role of parliament is going to be crucial. i very much appreciate the european parliament's strong interest and commitment and confirm our full commitment to work very closely with you in this joint endeavour.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance the commission is not we are talking again about the global compact for migration because the left-green utopian migration lobby hopes that this house will send a positive signal for a world without borders. the opposite is true. the italian government finally decided yesterday not to join the pact. it joins a growing list of countries that refuse to accept this absurd agenda. the us rejects the pact, as do australia and israel, and in the eu hungary, austria, slovakia, poland, the czech republic and bulgaria. belgium is therefore in a government crisis. the crisis is also looming in germany, because the previous supporters are now beginning to see the folly into which mrs merkel wants to plunge our country next. so let no one claim that the european parliament is even half-heartedly behind the signing of this treacherous pact. because that's not true, it's not true at all. stop with the fake news! that's enough. let's stop this suicide pact before it's too late!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am very surprised, mrs mogherini, that you can say that this pact is not a binding right for the nations, when after four years the nations are supposed to be checked to see whether they have implemented the measures of this pact. and if i imagine on the one hand that integration is now the new magic word and that people don't even think about deportation, that they don't even think about what the geneva refugee convention actually says, which is that those migrants should be returned when there is peace in their homes. all of this is not taken into account. integration should be the magic word of the future, not repatriation. the peoples of europe are threatened by this pact on migration, and many peoples have now found the answer by not signing it. i think that the migrants have no real future with this pact either. because the future should not be about coming to europe... (the president cut the speaker off)
for the next catch-the-eye procedure, i have to tell you that i have twice the number of reports than the time allocated. we shall have a very long vote today. i therefore ask for your indulgence if i cannot take all my colleagues into account. spontaneous speech
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i want to underline the fact that i am speaking here on behalf of the commission. it’s for the austrian presidency to express the position of the council. the commission has a very clear position on the global compact. as i explained, this is the result of a process that we europeans have initiated in the un framework, asking for partnership and asking to have a political global framework for managing together, on the basis of what we had already started to do with our african friends, with our asian friends, and with friends from latin america and everywhere. we initiated this process in the un framework, asking for a global approach – political, not legally binding – to establish partnerships because we europeans found out – in my view quite late, in 2015-2016, but still we did – that we needed to build strong partnerships with the countries of origin, of transit and of destination, supporting a common system and a common approach to manage migration, fight traffickers, offer opportunities and also to tackle, as some of you have said, difficult issues like returns, in an effective manner. it’s a difficult process, but it’s a process that is now reflected in a compact that, starting from a european approach, has moved to a global level. as i said, the compact largely reflects the positions of the european union and the work that we are currently doing, together with our partners, on migration, starting from the work we’re doing with the international organisation for migration (iom) and the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unnhcr). i can tell you this: the commission will not only be represented in marrakesh with a delegation, as i said, led by commissioner avramopoulos, but will continue to actively engage with the un and with the un system on its implementation. technically, as you might know – but maybe not – after the conference in marrakech, there will be a vote in the general assembly, where member states of the un will take a vote, but the commission will continue to work with the un system, with the un agencies and with our partners globally to implement this agenda because we have seen that, in the first couple of years of work that we have done, along the lines that are reflected in the global compact, these have started to bring results. so we will continue to work in this direction, investing in the global compact’s implementation as a political, non—binding, cooperative framework that will guide our work over the coming decades.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, high representative, honourable members, it was useful to have this discussion today in view of the conference next month and of the forthcoming adoption of the global compact in new york. i would like to conclude by reiterating what i already stated at the beginning, and that is the fact that migration in general and more specifically cooperation with third countries will remain high on the agenda of the council and the presidency. therefore we will continue to contribute to that purpose. i would like to thank you for sharing your doubts, your questions, your concerns, and also your thoughts in this regard.
the debate is closed. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the request for an oral answer to the commission on the situation of women with disabilities by rosa estaràs ferragut, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality (o-000117/2018 b8-0418/2018) (2018/2685(rsp)).
member of the commission. – mr president, this debate shows once more the relevance of the strategic and long-term approach we have chosen for both the specific issues of gender equality and disability. i should mention here that gender equality, equal opportunities and the inclusion of persons with disabilities are also among the principles of the european pillar of social rights, which was jointly proclaimed just over a year ago by all three european political institutions. there is no doubt that the considerable input of the european parliament over the past years will feed into the reflection about the form and the content of future european disability policies. the commission is also committed to ensure the involvement of people with disabilities and their representative organisations in this reflection. i count on the european parliament and, of course, also on the member states to be strong allies in putting the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities into practice.
a motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today, 29 november 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
i have to say, madam president, we would like to have an oral amendment. paragraph 21a:notes with concern that women living in rural and remote areas and roma and egyptian women continue to have limited access to primary health care and sexual and reproductive health services and are often unaware about the availability of such services, calls on the albanian authorities to ensure better information about such services and to ensure that they are accessible, affordable and of quality.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, our group had a request for tuesday and now you are already on wednesday. can we just check this?
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, on behalf of the s&d group, i would like to request that a debate on the adequacy arrangement with japan be added tomorrow along with the joint debate on the eu-japan partnership agreement and the resolution from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, which is to be adopted on wednesday. it is important to have the debate and the vote this week, as the commission is expected to adopt its adequacy decision vis-à-vis japan at the end of this year or, at the latest, in early 2019. therefore, in order to feed into the process, parliament needs to adopt its resolution beforehand.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, just to clarify, because we are talking about totally different things: i was demanding a debate and a vote on a resolution on the adequacy decision. the colleague over there is talking about a trade agreement with japan. so just to avoid confusion, my request regards the adequacy decision.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. an old indian proverb says: "we did not inherit the earth from our fathers, but we borrowed it from our children". as a christian member of parliament, i see the preservation of creation as one of our important objectives. throughout europe, we can see the successful life projects. in my region, it is the galenbecker lake nature reserve - a wonderful landscape and a hugely important place for migratory birds in europe. birds enjoy freedom of movement in the eu. nature knows no national boundaries, neither the migratory birds nor the biotopes nor the flora and fauna. the death of bees is not a german problem, nor a hungarian or a french problem: it is a global problem. we didn't have a german drought this year either, we had it all over europe. that's why these life programmes are so important. they give nature back spaces to rest. europe will not become the garden of eden, but we will preserve a livable environment for ourselves and our children. the life programme is a great help in this.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i think it is a very, very important subject that we are dealing with here today, and i do not want to add too much fuel to the fire, but i do want to point out that we had a very strange discussion in the committee on agriculture. the opinion of the committee on agriculture was drawn up by a man who denies man-made climate change. i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote. i think that in assigning the floor to the opinion there was already a clear expression of the wish to say: this issue is not that important, let us just put it further back. but we can't all afford that. we have to do more for the environment. mr gerbrandy, thank you very much for your report. the committee on the environment has adopted a good opinion on this, which has helped the report to get on its feet, so to speak, and i am very pleased about that. two weeks ago, the international conference on biodiversity in egypt was concluded. the climate conference is still going on in poland. these conferences address the pressing issues of our life on this planet, and then they discuss how we can prevent further extinction of plants and animals, how we can bring the world's climate back into balance. both are closely related and both problems are the responsibility of us, the people. i want to make that clear. we cannot shirk this responsibility. but we can also be part of the solution. we have the means, and i think the life programme is a really good programme - thank you, commissioner - where we can do more for the environment and the climate.
i have to say, madam president, unfortunately, cancer is the most common cause of death in the european union, ahead of lung cancer. the commission has, however, so far, inexplicably refused to include exhaust gases from diesel engines in the scope of the so-called cancer directive. a large majority in the employment committee set an emission limit value of 0.0 mg/m3 on 27 march this year; this is also in line with the german limit. some 3.6 million workers in europe, particularly in warehouses, mining and freight transport, will be better protected against diesel emissions in the future. that's good! this is practical european legislation to protect workers. it will continue and must be renewed constantly.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i remember very well how we started this basic food regulation. there were problems with our food, more and more food scandals. and we needed something that would give us and our citizens more security. that is why we have set up the european food safety authority. the work of this authority has been very successful. our food in the european union is considered the safest in the world. however, efsa is not yet required to follow the same transparency rules as other agencies, such as the agency for medical devices or the agency for chemicals. the commission has proposed driven by the european citizens' initiative against glyphosate to amend this now and align these rules. but what the commission has finally proposed was not harmonisation, but were much, much stricter rules for efsa than the other agencies have. (the president cut off the speaker for lack of an english translation.) but the commission has now proposed new rules for the european food safety authority that go much further than the transparency rules that the other agencies have to comply with. the other agencies publish the applications submitted and the studies on which they are based at the same time as they publish their comments on the application. the commission proposes that efsa should now do things differently. it is intended to publish the application and the studies on which it is based at the very beginning of the process, when the application has been submitted. when i read that, i thought: is the commission so naive, or is it deliberate? is this about the campaign? we have all been in a pre-election mode for months, and the commissioner seems to be in a pre-election mode as well. we can't force an applicant to present his proposal, his new idea, his innovation to the world public through the efsa homepage. it cannot be that an applicant is indirectly forced to make its documentation publicly available on the web worldwide by submitting an application to efsa for the authorisation of its new innovative product. it's not like that. the approval procedures at efsa take a very, very long time, up to 55 months. everyone in the world - competitors in third countries - has the good chance to look at the efsa homepage once a day, to see what new innovations are happening in europe, to copy-paste, and to start copying this product while the approval process is still ongoing in europe. and the third country competitor has the ability to bring a product that it has stolen to the world market, and can probably offer it much cheaper than the european could ever do. the european product is dead and the european producer is left behind. that's wrong! so i'm proposing something completely different that will bring at least as much transparency. i do not understand why the commission does not think that this should be supported. i propose a three-step process. efsa first examines the application and the underlying studies, then publishes its draft scientific opinion and at the same time the information on the application and the underlying studies. and then the second stage begins: a consultation phase, where the public, the interested public, can examine the proposal and the underlying studies to the fullest. we can discuss the duration of the consultation period, that is not a question at all. but it is only after this consultation phase that the efsa, as i propose, should publish its final opinion and then be able to include the outcome of this public consultation. i think that's the right procedure. the efsa is already doing this sometimes on its own initiative, and why should we not make this system compulsory? i would like to point out that, for example, in the case of acrylamide, efsa changed its final opinion once again after such a public consultation. so it is possible, and it even has a benefit for the public, because they already have the efsa's assessment of this application and the underlying studies. that is why i am asking for support for my request. the commission's proposal is not a good one, but it is a good one. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. then the manufacturers go directly abroad with their innovations, and then we have no access to the application documents at all. that's not what we want! so i'm asking for support for my proposal.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would like to thank the commission and the rapporteur, mrs renate sommer. we have a very brave and a very clever report here. how can we make the approval process more transparent? how can we prevent the processes we have in the eu from losing confidence? the key is: transparency a lot of information that consumer organisations and the public can and should look at critically. but also important: we are talking about the whole food chain in the eu. we're not just talking about big corporations like monsanto and their notorious glyphosate. we are talking about thousands of mediumsized companies operating in this sector. with such far-reaching legislation, we must also be careful not to kill off all innovation in europe. what happens if a medium-sized company has a new formula for concentrated feed, but it is too complicated to allow it in europe? what happens then? it's all right. the big companies are moving their development to china, the medium-sized companies are simply going bankrupt. it is a balancing act between greater transparency, greater security on our plates, but also a procedure that is as unbureaucratic as possible and which is not to be voted on by the very big players. this report and the rapporteur's proposals ensure that.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not yes, i can only say that it is better late than never that we are discussing this proposal here. i would also like to say that we would like to see this transparency directive adopted before the elections. we need to regain the public's trust, and that has been lost in the process of the glyphosate debate. it is not for nothing that a million signatures were given to critically question this. the transparency of the present process is not guaranteed; that is easy to say. i can understand mrs sommer's concern about the industry. but i'm more concerned with the interests of the environment and consumers. i believe that they were not identified and equated in the current legislation. that needs to be corrected. transparency must be in place from the outset, not just after efsa has put its proposals on the table. this is very important, and unlike mrs sommer, we do not want to allow access to the public only afterwards, but from the beginning. it is also important to involve critical scientists in the process of discussion. the more trustworthy the result of the whole thing becomes. we also need to make sure that we disclose all the studies in a registry, and not just the studies that are suitable for industry. that's another important part of regaining trust. i do not see - unlike mrs sommer - that the interests of industry are now at risk here or that the masses are now emigrating back to china. it's always painted somewhere in the sky when we discuss such things. no, the current draft law provides for both innovation and the protection of intellectual property. that is why we are fighting for the passage of this directive. the commission has also proposed that the panels of the efsa be composed of independent members. we must take this even more seriously. we must also ensure that efsa is given the opportunity to produce studies on its own, to commission them and to review them critically. finally, i would like to thank the citizens' initiative glyphosate, which has made this process possible with its million signatures.
member of the commission. – mr president, i have listened with great interest to the views expressed during this discussion and i am grateful for all the valuable insights and for the commitment in the house to addressing the transparency and sustainability of the european union risk assessment process in the food chain. i heard a lot of support for the proposal today, and i am reassured by the fact that parliament believes transparency is crucial in terms of europeans’ trust in our work to protect them. i thank the many members who have raised the issues of transparency, science and so on, especially mr andrieu and the members of the special committee on the union’s authorisation procedure for pesticides (pest). this proposal is for a targeted revision of the general food law. it is a targeted revision, which means that we are focusing just on ways of addressing transparency issues, because they are the main problem. as you know, the general food law was introduced in 2002, and now, after the fitness check, we know that it is fit for purpose. the targeted revision is designed to provide an ambitious response to calls for more transparency in the risk assessment process in the food chain. therefore, once again, allow me to emphasise that public disclosure of studies supporting applications for authorisation at an early stage is important, in order to increase citizens’ confidence in the risk assessment system, and also to restore trust in science and to avoid bias in science. two weeks ago we had debates with presidents of industry and we explained once again that our proposal is a balanced one. industry needs to postpone disclosure, but that is not the right answer in this situation. i am convinced that, on the basis of the positions expressed here, a good compromise can be reached on this issue. please be assured that the proposal, while strengthening transparency, includes enough safeguards for business to enable innovation in europe to continue. i would further mention, once again, that duly justified confidential information will remain protected, and there is no interference with existing intellectual property rights or other rights. that is crystal clear. in any event, enhanced transparency will contribute to strengthening a climate of consumer trust, which is beneficial for stimulating innovation – and i would emphasise that. the union’s product safety system is recognised worldwide. please compare the united states food and drug administration (fda) system: the openness of the data is much broader than what we have in europe today. and what about companies in the united states? they are not complaining about that. so, let’s see how we can improve transparency, while not putting innovation at risk. on ms schreijer—pierick’s question about impact assessment, as explained in the roadmap and the explanatory memorandum to the proposal, no initial impact assessment was carried out. the measures proposed focus on transparency and the way that the commission and efsa will gather and manage the evidence needed to perform their tasks on the basis of unchanged criteria. secondly, duly justified confidential information is protected in addition to any existing intellectual property rights and data exclusivity rights. therefore, incentives for innovation remain largely unchanged. thirdly, the proposed measures have a particular impact on efsa, which is publicly financed. as to questions related to the possibility of equipping efsa with more financial instruments, as you know, we are proposing in our new multiannual financial framework to provide an additional eur 62.5 million every year so that efsa can recruit 106 additional workers and address the issues related to capacity problems. the proposal also addresses the long—term sustainability of the risk assessment process, and that of efsa, in particular. efsa’s role is, and will remain, crucial – actually as much as that of the member states – in achieving a high level of protection of public health for european citizens. honourable members, i thank you once again for your active engagement on this issue and i look forward to working closely together towards a strengthened climate of consumer trust in the food chain, and to seeing how we can move forward, starting with our debates in the months to come, with the council, parliament and the commission together.
the rapporteur. the commission is not i do not understand why the commissioner always talks three times as long as he has time to speak. can i have that speaking time now? it bothers me. the commissioner's been lobbying for months, so he doesn't have to do this. and you're helping him do that by letting him talk and not even giving him a clue about the time. (the president declared the common position approved as amended) but it always seems to be that way. commissioner, do you really think that what you have proposed is a balanced proposal, that there will be a high level of protection for innovation and that everything will be wonderful? how do you know that? there was only a short consultation period for manufacturers and then again over christmas - yes, when the offices are empty. you have not provided an impact assessment, which you are required to do under the better regulation. that's why we're all so far apart here. yes, we all want transparency in principle. that's what this is about. the council is therefore not quite sure where to go, because the impact assessment is missing. you have done a bad job and at the same time it is incredibly disturbing to me that you have been calling parliament for months, pitting factions against each other, trying to get your proposal through. if you want to be a legislator, get elected to parliament! you're not the legislator, you're the commissioner. i'd like to point that out. it's not right that you're lobbying in this way. a further word to the left of this parliament s&d, greens and gue: i think it is unconscionable to accuse the epp and the other groups who are in favour of a moderate proposal that protects innovation and at the same time gives the citizen the publicity he may want, of being against consumer protection and only for industrial interests. this is an outrage, an insolence. industry - i mean manufacturers, not the big bad industry. but, industry is always evil in your eyes industry the manufacturers , that is also part of our society. they provide jobs we desperately need. the food sector is one of the largest in the european union. it creates millions of jobs, and all those workers are also consumers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's research and development programmes are properly coordinated. and no, it's not always about glyphosate. the glyphosate debate was the catalyst for this story. but we cannot have the entire food industry being punished and covered with existential-threatening regulations because of this glyphosate debate. we are all for transparency, but we want to do it well.
the committee on budgets has adopted an opinion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am the permanent rapporteur for the agencies in the committee on budgets, which has been dealing with the subject of this debate for a very long time with an opinion. i congratulate my fellow rapporteurs on the conclusion of the negotiations. i am glad that the greater accountability to parliament has been achieved. it was a proposal that also came from the committee on budgets. another proposal was to refer to the clear separation of responsibilities in order to sharpen the profile, to make the responsibilities clear, with the desire for synergies, of course. i am glad that the revision of the basic regulation was a success.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, this week the european council will have a heavy agenda. leaders will hold a further substantial discussion on the multiannual financial framework (mff). at the request of president tusk, chancellor kurz will present to leaders his assessment of work done so far. much has been achieved in the last few months. as requested by the june european council, the council set out in july to examine the proposals in a comprehensive manner and without delay. that is what the austrian presidency has done. as a result, today in the general affairs council, ministers are discussing a draft negotiating box that presents a comprehensive picture of all the components of the future mff. this means that the parameters for the negotiation are now established. of course, the draft negotiating box contains no figures and a range of options. delegations still have diverging views on many issues. this is not a surprise at this stage in the negotiations. we all know how difficult the final agreement will be. any agreement will be a complex balancing act between very different views around the table. we will listen carefully to what heads of state or government will say this thursday when they discuss the mff, including its timeline. this political guidance will help the council determine the next steps. it will also help our romanian colleagues to build the space for compromises during the next semester. throughout this process we will continue to cooperate closely with parliament, keeping in mind the special nature of this procedure. we are meeting your rapporteurs regularly and i am confident that president tajani will convey your views to leaders when he is heard by the european council. the european council will also return to the implementation of its comprehensive approach to migration, combining effective control of the eu’s external borders, increased external action and an internal dimension. the austrian presidency has worked intensively on all three dimensions of migration policy, including in bilateral meetings during the summer and, later, in a tour des capitales, chancellor kurz will inform leaders of the progress achieved. following the council conclusions in june and october, this meeting will be an opportunity for leaders to review the progress on the different tracks and provide additional guidance where needed. the future of our single market will also be on the table. in the current global context, we need to invest in this key asset of our union, make sure the single market delivers on its potential, make it fit for today’s world and equip it to meet the challenges of tomorrow: from digital transformation to the transition to a greener economy, as well as the application of better regulation and the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the fight against climate change is one of those major challenges. while cop24 is in full swing, leaders will return to this matter this week. we are extremely pleased that last week the council adopted the declaration on the fight against anti-semitism. the european council will recall the importance of the fight against racism and xenophobia, including anti-semitism. turning now to security and defence. the progress we have made in the last couple of years is substantive. in addition to the many initiatives to enhance our strategic autonomy and our capacity to act as a security provider, deepening at the same time our cooperation with nato, the european council will also refer to the civilian aspects of our common security and defence policy. the recent agreement on a civilian compact will help strengthen the eu’s capacity to deploy civilian crisis management missions, to reinforce the police, the rule of law and the civil administration in fragile and conflict settings. the european council will also address this information. here i don’t need to recall the importance of preserving our democratic processes and protecting our citizens from massive exposure to fake news, or deliberately misleading information. urgent action is needed to tackle this evolving threat in all its dimensions – ahead of the european elections, of course, but also in the light of many elections in member states next year. at the same time, we also need to recognise that this is a long-term effort. the european council will consider the main challenges. finally, as usual, the european council will also discuss the latest developments in external relations and it will prepare the upcoming summit with the league of arab states.
president of the european commission. the european council has already made a number of recommendations on the basis of the conclusions of the european council in brussels. the summit at the end of this week will not be able to become a normal summit and must not be. there has to be a decision summit. the decisions to be taken can be located in many places. for example, deepening economic and monetary union. all the proposals are on the table. the commission has done its job. it is now up to the other institutions, first and foremost the council, to take decisions. it will depend on our strengthening the european stability mechanism. we must ensure that it becomes the ultimate safeguard for the single resolution fund. we must continue to work on strengthening the european deposit system. the risks have gone down. bad bank loans have corrected downwards. i cannot see any real reason why this issue is not being actively dealt with in the european council and in the council of economic and financial ministers. it has to be done. the banking union must be completed. the same applies to the capital markets union. there are 13 proposals on the table. enough said, it must be implemented now. this is about the credibility of the entire eurozone beyond the day. we must strengthen what has made us strong, that is, we must continue to work consistently and continuously on completing the internal market. 67 commission proposals are on the table; 44 have been completed and 23 are still to be finalised. you should do that. everyone is talking about the single market. then we must do something to strengthen the single market. and then there is the almost eternal problem of migration. the european parliament has a duty to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. there again, it is a matter of deciding, it is a matter of agreeing on the reform of our asylum system. seven proposals were presented by the commission. five proposals can be adopted tonight or tomorrow morning, but they must be adopted, so that there is no need to take the five directives on qualification, on eurodac and others, in the hope of full and complete agreement on the seven proposals. we must adopt those which are ready, and the parliament, from this point of view, is a fait son travail. and then, as the president comes from the dire, we shall have to discuss the multiannual financial framework. i must say that the austrian presidency has done an excellent job: it has succeeded in bringing together all the elements concerning the negotiating boxes. i would like the european council not only to take action but to continue its work on this basis, which i would like to see completed before the european elections. i know that the enthusiasm of decision-makers in this respect is waning, but we owe it to those who are part of the erasmus programme, the research programmes and many others to achieve results before the european elections so that we can be judged not on what we said years ago, but on what we will do in the weeks to come. and then there is a surprise guest at the european council: brexit. i am surprised that we had an agreement on 25 november with the british government. it is always the case that there seems to be problems at the end of the road. i will see mrs may this evening, and i have to say here in parliament - as i said before in this parliament - the deal we have achieved is the best deal possible. it's the only deal possible, and so we cannot... (applause) i would like to thank there is no room whatsoever for renegotiation, but of course there is enough room if used intelligently to give further clarification and further interpretations without opening the withdrawal agreement. this will not happen. everyone has to know that the withdrawal agreement will not be reopened. (applause) i would like to thank the big problem, of course, is the backstop for ireland. we have a common determination to do everything not to be in a situation one day to use that backstop, but we have to prepare it its necessary. it is necessary for the entire coherence of what we have agreed with britain, and it is necessary for ireland. ireland never wants to be left alone. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i first want to speak about the new guest in the room – about brexit. i wonder sometimes myself what people outside of this bubble of our brussels discussion think about what we are doing there on the brexit negotiations. they see that the brexit majority was already two years ago – more than two years ago. we have been negotiating now for one and a half years on the brexit treaty. we negotiated more among the different british camps than between the eu and great britain, and then we have a final agreement on the table accepted by the british government and accepted by the 27 eu governments. and now we see again a reopening, an attempt to of renegotiate the whole thing. i think we have already lost too much time discussing brexit, and we need more discussion about the future of the european union and not so much about brexit. that’s why the epp group fully supports the position of our commission president that there is no chance to reopen the treaty which is on the table. we don’t play this game, especially in the irish interest, because the backstop is due to our common goal that we want to avoid a hard border in northern ireland. and again, for the epp, i want to clarify in this regard that we are all irish. (applause) the second point is a political declaration. we can clarify again that hopefully the backstop will not be needed in the future, but the best would be to avoid such a backstop – to clarify now what we want to achieve in the trade negotiations. if we could include, for example, already today, that we want to achieve a norway+ model or something like that, if we can have clarity on these points, it would help us a lot to speed up the negotiations during the transitional period and to avoid the risk of a backstop. that’s why, when our british colleagues are asking for additional clarification, we can also consider to do so as the european parliament. i want to fix two considerations first: everybody in the european union must know that when you leave the club, you’re losing the advantages, and that is what the brits are experiencing today. and secondly, the eu27 is strong and united. london is facing economic problems, and sometimes also – from time to time – a politically chaotic situation, and the message behind that is important for our election campaign next year: it is risky to leave the european union. let’s reform the european union where we see a need for reforms, rather than to leave or to destroy the european union. we have two other points which i want to mention. one is about the economic reforms, especially on the eurozone: we would welcome to have further progress on the capacity for a strong investment budget for the european union to be more capable to react in future crisis times. there, we see a lack of initiatives, but what we really appreciate and welcome is that the european monetary fund will get more independence from the international infrastructure in this regard. in the future, we have to guarantee that the next crisis – which could happen in the future – could be managed without depending on international infrastructure in this regard. for the second point, i want to underline migration again. when i listen to what the home affairs minister said last week about strengthening frontex – the 10 000 additional frontex officers – it’s a disaster to see this: that the council is proposing this, that at the council level all our leaders are asking us to speed up to immediately implement these frontex forces to guarantee strong border control, and then the home affairs ministers don’t care about what the council members are telling us. so i think that it is on us to clarify. if we don’t do so, it means no solidarity with the south, it means no strict border controls, and it means no better management of migration flows – and that is exactly the opposite of what the people in europe are asking us to do.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i too am fascinated by this week’s agenda. brexit is back again – and why not? we already know what we think about it. but the good news comes from the european court of justice. they have made it completely clear that, yes, the uk can revoke article 50 if it so wishes, unilaterally. they don’t need anybody else. good news! (applause) so, this is a question to the parliamentarians in the united kingdom. as it stands, and this too is surprising, there is no vote this week. wasn’t it about giving back control to the parliamentarians? wasn’t it about giving back control to the people in the uk? now we are in a situation where neither the people nor the parliamentarians are allowed to have a say. how ridiculous is this whole exercise! and we should put a stop to this, by saying that, in democracies, the people have to have a say. this is what my group thinks, and this is my personal belief. let the people have a say! wir haben glücklicherweise jetzt – dank antónio guterres, dank den vereinten nationen – 164 staaten, die den migrationspakt unterstützen. was sind für lügen erzählt worden über diesen migrationspakt: er würde den raum eng machen, man könne national nicht mehr über seine migrationspolitik befinden – alles lügen, alles unwahr! in wirklichkeit ging es um etwas ganz anderes. herr bannon, der vormalige zuschläger von herrn trump, war unterwegs, frau le pen war unterwegs. was war die attacke? die attacke war: es darf keine multilateralen lösungen mehr geben in dieser welt. nein, wir müssen nationalistisch sein, wir müssen uns nationalistisch aufstellen. das ist falsch! und deswegen ist es gut, wenn wir die vereinten nationen verteidigen, weil wir wissen: migration ist ein thema, wanderung ist ein thema, das aus dieser modernen welt nicht mehr wegzudenken ist. wenn wir die vereinten nationen nicht verteidigen, die multilateral arbeiten wollen, dann können wir nicht die europäische union verteidigen, denn wir sind aus dem gleichen holz. auch wir wissen, dass man grenzen überwinden muss, um moderne antworten für die menschen in einer modernen welt zu geben. deswegen war es richtig, dass wir uns dafür eingesetzt haben. leider waren wir nicht alle auf dieser seite. und da muss ich wirklich sagen: herr kurz, die österreichische ratspräsidentschaft – in einer zeit, wo er zentrale verantwortung für europa trägt, europa alleine zu lassen und einzustimmen in den chor derer, die an anderer stelle hetzen, die diffamieren, die falsch zeugnis ablegen: wir waren nicht gut vertreten in marrakesch. es war eine schande – nicht für die europäische union, aber eine schande für diese regierung, eine schande für diese ratspräsidentschaft. das darf uns, liebe kolleginnen und kollegen, nie wieder passieren. ich bin der auffassung, herr kommissionspräsident, dass sie eine sehr mutige handschrift geliefert haben, als es um die großen fragen der asylpolitik ging. ja, es war richtig zu sagen: wir können nicht nur durch grenzziehungen, wir können nicht nur durch abwehrmaßnahmen, und wir können auch nicht nur dadurch, dass wir menschen zurückschicken, die richtigen antworten geben. wir müssen uns in dieser welt, wie sie ist, damit beschäftigen, dass es weiter migration und flucht – leider auch flucht – geben wird. deswegen brauchen wir gemeinsame antworten, und hier hat das europäische parlament in der tat seine hausaufgaben gemacht. aber die reform von dublin ist weiterhin erforderlich und darf nicht aufgegeben werden, weil alles andere sonst stückwerk ist. liebe kolleginnen und kollegen, wir dürfen das nicht akzeptieren, wir müssen mutig bleiben, die kommission muss mutig bleiben und darf an dieser stelle nicht klein beigeben. das, was passiert ist an hetze, zeigt uns aber auch, dass wir alle mitgliedstaaten, dass wir die kommission bitten, nein auffordern müssen, jetzt alle maßnahmen zu ergreifen, damit diese nächsten europawahlen sicher sind. die menschen müssen entscheiden – nicht die geschäftsmodelle der großen tech-unternehmen –, wie die nächste parlamentarische versammlung in europa, wie das nächste europäische parlament zusammengesetzt sein wird. das ist unsere gemeinsame aufgabe. und ich würde sagen: das drängt, das müssen wir jetzt sofort machen, hoffentlich mit der entsprechenden unterstützung auch aus den mitgliedstaaten und der unterstützung der kommission. lassen sie uns anpacken! das ist im moment das wichtigste. die menschen müssen das sagen haben über ihr schicksal in der europäischen union. dafür kämpfen wir.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the european council meetings have indeed become a festival of postponement. instead of taking any decisions, things always get to be postponed; they’re going to be re-discussed later on, and then they are going to be put on the agenda, or not at all. like migration, for example. the european council has already been discussing this for hours without end, but just talking won’t get you anywhere. you also have to take decisions. in the european parliament i think we also like to talk a bit, but then we vote and then we find compromises and we take decisions. that’s why the european parliament has already agreed on a dublin proposal, both in 2013, first, and now again in 2017. so we have proved that it’s possible to make compromises across parties, across countries – so why can’t you, the member states? and now to decide that the distribution system is supposed to go into the freezer altogether is not going to help, because how would anyone imagine a european asylum system to come about without one of its central pieces, the dublin reform? and also, how can the heads of state and government again and again refuse to even consider the european parliament’s position, thereby totally disregarding this institution? i would say we can no longer wait, and i would call on those member states who are serious about solidarity to go ahead, to join themselves together and to come out of their corner and start some action together. it’s time to make a move, and let’s not wait for the last one to come out of their corner. the other continuously postponed item is, of course, the eurozone reform. for years the european council has been talking about it, postponing it, and talking about it again, and now all that the eurozone finance ministers could agree on is a eurozone budget that is far too small. it won’t allow for sufficient investment, it won’t do anything to overcome poverty and unemployment. but if we do want to have a stable currency and a stable eurozone, then we have to go further. most heads of state and government clearly are not courageous. they don’t even seem to be interested in their common future and the future of our union, the future of the countries that they govern. they are stuck in very nationalist debates. but it’s time for more courage in european politics. the future doesn’t just build itself; it doesn’t just fall from the skies: it needs to be built. and talking about the mmf that you have mentioned, i think the mff debate would be a perfect opportunity to send a very clear signal to the climate conference happening in katowice at this very moment, because nice words on climate only lead to action if you put some money behind that, and i believe that the katowice summit could really use some clear signals. courage will certainly also be needed in the brexit talks, even though probably even more on the other side of the channel. but i hope that the european council will make two things very clear. firstly, that we all stand together for the european union principles and interests – and that includes the irish interests. but secondly, they should make very clear that the british people would always be welcome back if they decide to do so; if they decide to revert to their original situation.
the commission has already made a number of proposals. the statements we heard this morning show that the eu is at a standstill. it was a document of the standstill that we heard. the multiannual financial planning is not progressing. the reform of asylum and refugee policy is not progressing, although it has been three years overdue, although we know that dublin iii is not working and we urgently need new, functional legislation. the stabilization of economic and monetary union is not progressing. mr juncker, if you want to know why the heads of state or government do not want edis, you should not just say: edis is good. because it's not true. edis is just increasing the risks. the aim is not only to reduce existing risks, but the obligation to transfer the surplus to other deposit insurance schemes creates new risks. that's why the whole package is unsuitable. we're not even moving forward with brexit. the european union is also at an impasse. that is why mr weber is right. of course, we have to reform the eu, we have to change the eu. we must eliminate the weaknesses that have emerged, which are visible on the hands. but there's no will. there's a lack of will to do anything. in fact, both the council and the european council and parliament are always indulging in complacency. but that's not going to get us anywhere. we need real reforms in the eu.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. for ten years now, we in europe - in the european parliament, in the european council, in the commission - have been discussing the question of economic and monetary policy. as the liberal group rightly pointed out, economic and monetary policy is the foundation on which european policy is built. but the fact that the so-called liberals are the ones who are complaining that this lack of foundation means that social benefits cannot be distributed in sufficient quantities is a sign of the babylonian political confusion in which we find ourselves. if we have been trying for ten years to regulate economic and monetary policy, if we have been trying for three years to finally regulate migration in europe, if we have been trying for two years to find a reasonable exit with the british among friends and obviously we cannot achieve that here, then it is quite clear that europe is overwhelmed in very, very many areas, simply because the interests have been divided in recent years. those of you who then complain that there are national interests, including national aspirations to act nationally, should ask yourselves whether after ten years of euro-policy it is not time to find national solutions. this is also true of the issue of migration.
i have to say, madam president, after being briefly arrested in marrakesh yesterday and expelled from the premises for exercising my right to freedom of expression against the pact, it is important for me to ask mr juncker today, in the presence of the council, whether what commissioner avramopoulos told us in the dialogue in marrakesh on sunday is true: that the commission is in agreement to sign this pact on migration in any case and that he does not give a damn about what the individual member states think. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are able to move freely within the union. we will transpose them into european law and then transfer them to the national states.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not prepared to accept this. again, no progress has been made. the vice-president has noted it, mr karas has just noted it. the reforms that are being proposed are not progressing, and for good reason. because you can't push reforms forward if you don't address the cause. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we see that the eurozone is in crisis. we see germany and france rushing forward with proposals for a eurozone budget. but what would be gained by distributing more money now? this seems to be the macron mentality we saw yesterday: if you just hand out a little money, the problems will be solved. i'm not going to. you have to get to the root of the problem. and if mr macron believes that he needs a eurozone budget to be able to raise his minimum wage in france now, then he should have cut his hair, we should not allow that. it is about actually addressing the problems of the euro. and one of the problems is the problem of the many nonperforming loans in the banks. what has been prepared by the european parliament is de facto nothing. we're not even going to address that problem. the backstop doesn't work if we say all the bad loans from the financial crisis are excluded from this backstop, and in three years we start the new one at all. we need action, not words!
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. we feel it at every meeting, on every major issue in europe, how the member states are divided on key issues. let's look at italy. let us look at the question of the common budgetary framework. but also what will happen now, when mr macron puts his announcements into practice. we're not getting anywhere. in this situation, we should be happy about every step we have taken: that we have managed to take a step forward in banking resolution and to adopt the legal framework for stricter banking rules in europe. but compared with what a stable euro actually needs, economics is largely in agreement. the european parliament, the european commission have put forward proposals in this direction and mr macron has made ambitious proposals on how we can move forward with more democracy and more stability for the single monetary union. what happened now? the mountain gave birth to a mouse. let us be clear: the lack of a strong monetary union and strong institutions in the eurozone will lead to an unnecessarily high level of poverty and unemployment and economic instability in the next crisis. we know that some countries are slowing down in the council of member states: unfortunately austria too, unfortunately the netherlands, unfortunately the baltic states too. but france was ambitious. mr macron can be criticised for many things he does not address in france, namely social inequalities. but he was ambitious in his reform of the eurozone. what i find particularly bitter is that in this situation the german government - the grand coalition - has not clearly taken france's side, but has been lazy, half-hearted, and not courageous on the eurozone budget. this policy of half-heartedness is going to cost us dearly. this must be the subject of the european elections. we need a german government which is once again pro-european, as the majority of citizens in germany want. europe has earned that.
i have to say, madam president, we all remember the financial and banking crisis. and of course we need effective structural reforms in the european financial system. but in view of the very modest results of the eurogroup meeting, i should also like to make a few suggestions in the direction of the eurogroup summit. first, a central problem of the last financial crisis was that the banks were too big to fail because that would have caused enormous economic damage. what has happened here in the eu so far? not nearly enough. that is why we propose here a clear separation of the credit and deposit business from investment banking. secondly, we call for higher capital ratios for systemically important banks. the aim is to enable the banks concerned to absorb crises independently without having to resort to taxpayers' money. the existing rules do not meet this criterion and are not sufficient. and thirdly, we are calling for strict regulation of complex financial products, that is, the elimination of the fires before they can spread throughout the building. ergo, there's still a lot to do. let's do it before it's too late again!
i have to say, madam president, i heard the statement by mr guy verhofstadt this morning. he's right, you know. he said, "our social problems are because we have no growth no growth". no growth means no tax revenue, cuts in social spending, social unrest, youth unemployment. it is true, as has been said here several times. but why the eurozone is the area with the lowest growth rates in the world, this question has not been answered. it is also quite simple: if one country has an exchange rate which means exports and employment for the others and imports of goods for the others but exports of employment, then we have this situation. now, come with your suggestions. i am told that the euro is safe. and then i hear it's not safe if you haven't done it. i keep hearing that. you'll be saying that in ten years. and then they come and say, "the bank deposit, the edis". my god, all people know that if everyone is responsible, no one is responsible. that is moral hazard, and you will be complaining about it in a few years, and complaining about it again and again. why don't you take care of the horns?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i am speaking here not only on behalf of the epp group as shadow rapporteur, but also on behalf of my colleagues harkin and stevens from the alde group and the ecr group. there are good reasons to vote against the mandate. firstly, for reasons of substance: we as the european parliament should really consider whether we are doing something good for the most important people in our european house, whether we are doing something good for the citizens, especially the workers, with this report. we have highly mobile workers who, according to this report, do not know, if they work today in one country and tomorrow in another, in what social system they will be. we have a much too rapid change in social legislation for mobile workers, especially for people who commute across borders, from the country of origin to the country to which they are sent. we have a situation where workers who move from one country to another today, in this country, if they become unemployed, receive unemployment benefits from this country from the first day. the question is, do we want that? we should not create incentives for social abuse. we should create incentives so that social systems that are good in europe benefit the people who need them. secondly, and this is very important, we should have the whole of the european parliament vote on this report. the whole european parliament should have a vote on this important report, not just the empl committee. the question today is not whether to reject this report. we all don't want that. the point today is that we as the european parliament - all members - should have a say and then we should vote on this report together again next week in strasbourg. that's what i'm asking for. i would also like to say something to the commission: it is simply wrong to always close the most important cases at the last minute, and that we as the european parliament have hardly any time left to deal with them sensibly, and then to put us under pressure and say: 'now you must finish quickly'. we are the elected members of the european parliament. we should take our time too. that's why i'm campaigning to have the mandate rejected. (applause from the centre)
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. in my view, this result of the vote is intolerable. it is not necessary to impose rules that threaten the existence of the entire food sector in europe, and this without an impact assessment by the european commission. the result just voted is a consequence of the european elections. the european commission has published this dossier, this draft, much too late, has put parliament under time pressure, has lobbied parliament, has tried to drive a wedge not only between the political groups but also within them. as rapporteur, i cannot be responsible for this result and i do not want my name to be associated with this dossier in future. i therefore withdraw my report, withdraw my name and ask my group to vote against referring the matter back to committee for institutional negotiations if necessary. so, colleagues, vote against it, say what you think! this is a populist decision that has been made here, and we do not need it.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i would like to begin by quoting the following: 'unfortunately, international terrorism does not stop at national borders. if we are to protect ourselves effectively, we need good cooperation between the security authorities in europe. we need a better and much faster exchange of all available information in the eu on violent extremists. we must act as unitedly as possible against all forms of extremism and terrorism. these words of august 2017 were not spoken by a conservative interior minister or political commentator, but by the then social democratic german federal minister of justice, heiko maas. although i do not usually quote political opponents, i would like to send this appeal by heiko maas to everyone in the house. terrorism is something we want to fight across factions, where we want to come together and pass a powerful report. first, a brief look back: we have 15 months of intensive work ahead of us until the vote in the plenary tomorrow. i would like to thank in particular my co-rapporteur, dear helga stevens, and also my shadow rapporteurs, who have worked most intensively with me. dear caterina, you're sitting here, maite is in the audience. a very, very warm thank you for the good cooperation. i would also like to thank nathalie griesbeck very much, who, as chair of our committee, has worked hard to allow and facilitate very good factual work. i would also like to thank you, dear nathalie, and especially the staff of the commission, you, mr julian king, commissioner avramopoulos, all your staff from the commission, but also from the competent agencies who have supported, accompanied and helped us, and also the institutions from the member states which have enabled us - whether in paris, london, berlin, madrid or wherever - to obtain information, to make visits, to obtain information, to discuss questions, problems, but also possible solutions. based on these experiences and impressions, we then worked together to produce a report which, in accordance with the mandate given, is entitled to analyse the most important problems and fields of action. a horizontal theme that we have repeatedly encountered is the need to implement existing legislation in the field of counter-terrorism in a consistent and timely manner - this is one of our demands - and also to ensure the appropriate technical and human resources for practical application. we also call on all member states to abandon opt-outs in the existential field of combating terrorism and to work together instead. the focus of our mandate has been and is cooperation in the field of information exchange. i am all the more appalled by some of the proposals which have just been received from the gue which would de facto completely undermine and make impossible this exchange of information. i hope that we will all agree to exchange information and not to oppose it. we must use the possibilities of technology today in the same way as criminals eventually do on their side. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on it. we are arguing that with all the technical possibilities, by default - in english there is a nice expression - we should eventually get so good that the quality of the information, the standards of the information, are such that we can exchange it much, much faster, maybe eventually exchange it by default with long-term goals, that europol becomes a real hub of information exchange and that eurojust also gets additional powers. we also want to put hate preachers on a blacklist. we are demanding improvements, especially for the victims of terrorist attacks. it is not enough to put everything on paper, but real help must be offered to the victims. and we've compiled a comprehensive catalogue of what it is. i thank all those who have helped to make this report better and i hope that we can adopt a powerful report here tomorrow.
on behalf of the group of the european democratic alliance the commission is not we are talking about the report of the special committee on terrorism set up by the european parliament and its recommendations. it is time that this egg dance around political islam and radicalized muslims stops. in the considerations of your report you manage to address this jihadist islam. but in the recommendations you suddenly make it seem as if the terror of islam is only a marginal aspect of the current threat situation. why don't you just call it horse and rider? talk about islam instead of religious extremism! we don't have christian or jewish extremism here. talk about closing mosques instead of places of worship! churches and synagogues are not places where hate is preached. talk about imams instead of clerics! priests and rabbis do not preach hatred. do you not dare to speak these simple truths? the fight against terrorism must not be silent about political islam. this report, it seems to me, prefers to remain silent. it almost looks like you don't want to worry about the threat situation changing. we owe it to our citizens. their safety is the first priority of the state. start doing this job really well!
i have to say, madam president, what was the purpose of the special committee on terrorism? examination, analysis and evaluation of the extent of the terrorist threat and assessment of the impact of anti-terrorism laws on fundamental rights. what the report provides: a list of the numerous dossiers which have already been dealt with or even adopted in recent years. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens. my conclusion: there is no shortage of anti-terrorism laws but there is a lack of implementation in the member states. the demand for ever new controls on laws that have not yet been implemented has something of fake news. security is an important issue. this report does not contribute to this. i shall therefore not agree with him.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members very much for today’s debate. i hope we are all agreed that effective security policies in the area of countering terrorism, as in others, must necessarily be rooted in respect for fundamental values. we can achieve the results we seek only when we work together, and, to that end, i have to say, on a personal basis, that i am very grateful to all the members of the special committee on terrorism (terr) for the very powerful role they’ve played in developing our counterterrorism policy for the period ahead, and i look forward to our continuing cooperation. successfully tackling the threat posed by terrorism and developing an effective and genuine security union has to be a shared responsibility not only for our member states, of course, as many of you have underlined, but also for the commission and, indeed, for all of us here in this house. just to pick up one or two of the issues that have been raised. the first thing i want to say is that i think we should be proud of our values, including those of freedom of expression and freedom of belief. i don’t think there’s anything to be gained by stigmatising religion. indeed, that runs the risk of doing the extremists’ work for them. that said, we also have to be unremitting in identifying and tackling radicalisation and opposing violence from whatever source. on the victims, whom many of the speakers referred to with real compassion, the commission recognises the special character of victims of terrorism who’ve been indiscriminately caught up in attacks. that’s why we went to the trouble, with your support, of specifically reinforcing the means of support in the counterterrorism directive for the rights of victims and their family members. we now need to make sure that this is effectively implemented, and for that reason we are picking up your initiative and setting up a centre of expertise for the victims of terrorism, as a first step towards establishing a permanent eu coordination centre for victims of terrorism. that’s also why we are awaiting the report by ms milquet, the special adviser to president juncker on the question of how to do better on compensation for victims, including victims of terrorism. she will present her proposals, as you know, early next year. last point of detail: i agree with the many members who called on us to strengthen our agencies in this area, in relation to the support they can give to the shared effort and to the work of our member states. europol does an excellent job. we will continue to support europol in any way we can within the existing treaty provisions. europol has unique capabilities that are put at the service of law enforcement across our union and, indeed, beyond. europol builds trust and confidence among the member states and their law enforcement authorities, and that’s exactly what we need in order further to enhance police cooperation against terrorism. on these points, and on a wide range of other issues that have come up in the debate, i believe this report provides a significant and substantial contribution to europe’s approach to counterterrorism for the years ahead.
the rapporteur. the commission has already made a number of proposals. first of all, thank you for the lively discussion. i would like to counter the impression created by a verbal message by saying that we have not developed any measures or proposals together. i thank all the members who, with an incredible variety of 1 500 amendments, such a large number of measures, ranging from social, cultural, preventive, deradicalization, aid, security measures, judicial measures to it measures, have contributed to the fact that we have now been able to produce a really very rich report. i would like to thank you very much for that. i would also like to thank - but especially from here - those who are helping us to make this happen: all the non-governmental organisations, the many associations, the many volunteers, the victims' institutions, which are carrying out social and cultural work, and whose work we want to promote from here. i would also like to thank the security services and the judiciary for ensuring our safety. we want to support them too. we want to work here across factions and send a clear signal against terrorism and for peaceful coexistence. this applies to all religions that are with us and want to live in peace with us, and also to all people from all countries who live in peace with us. we must not exclude, but we must integrate and work together.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals. to put it quite clearly, the left group rejects the economic partnership agreement with japan precisely because we recognise the long-term importance of a strategic partnership as a common framework for a joint contribution to stability, peace and, above all, to the implementation of the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development over the next 11 years. we want fair and ethical trade, not modern free trade. we take seriously the well-founded concerns of thousands of citizens and ngos, and that is where the agreement has major holes. the agreement will undoubtedly massively accelerate the interconnection of our economies, but digitalisation and automation in manufacturing will increase competition in many sectors of the economy and cost many jobs. but you no longer see the structural adjustments as your responsibility. the social consequences are borne by the länder and municipalities. the agreed dispute settlement mechanisms are not sufficient. we must also honestly acknowledge that the cheaper agricultural products exported from the eu to japan will not only enrich the supply of goods in japan but will also contribute to the death of farmers there. this is not a contribution to fair globalization and the distribution of wealth. and, commissioner jourová, on the important area of data trade: when we talk about global value creation: the eu's advanced data protection is not reflected in this value-added process because it is not part of and reflected in the agreement. in the context of the future multiannual financial framework, the agreement will reduce the union's customs revenue by eur 1.6 billion - almost as much as if finland left the eu.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not prepared to accept this. the eu's jefta free trade agreement with japan is another step away from democracy to the dictatorship of the corporations. trade with japan is certainly important, but this agreement goes far beyond trade. it is an infringement of our basic democratic rights. this concerns local politics. their functions, such as schools, waste management, hospitals, regional transport, are being liberalized, that is to say, they are to be privatized as far as possible. the citizens on the ground should no longer be allowed to take these tasks into their own hands. once privatised, they are forever. they must not be returned to civilian hands. our governments no longer have the right to pass the social and environmental laws they want. the agreement says that the laws must not constitute a major obstacle to trade and investment. a particularly important case is the ban on genetic engineering. the european commission has failed to reserve this right for us. it would have been possible, but the commission obviously wanted to introduce genetic engineering in our country. jefta also abolishes rules designed to prevent a new banking crisis. we do not need a free trade agreement to enforce fair trade rules. the principles of our general data protection regulation were adopted by japan before jefta. (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to a question on the 'blue card' procedure. i was not talking about smes, i was talking about democracy. that here our rights are partly - only partly - transferred to corporations. just think of the possibilities of relaxing social laws, environmental laws. the limits are very clear and they are harmful to the economy.
i am not going to go into the details of the matter. the european union is not a party to the gatt, but it is a party to the gatt, and it is not a party to the gatt. so it is clear: it is up to us in europe and to us europeans to secure and continue to guarantee rules-based trade globally. that is why the trade agreement with japan is our way of advancing our european agenda. the agreement delivers what the commission has promised: 99% of all customs duties are abolished, more geographical indications of origin are secured than in any other agreement, and there is a separate chapter for small and mediumsized enterprises, which is extremely important for our member states in particular. if mr buchner is spreading fake news, then it is simply wrong, because the provision of municipal services is not under attack, but is guaranteed, because of course, after the expiry of a concession, each municipality can decide for itself whether it wants to provide a service of public services itself or not. i beg you . we know that russia, china and others are spreading fake news. but please, members of this house, spare yourselves that.
the commission has already done so. we live in a global village with global value chains, and that really raises the question of what to do. do we give corporations the benefit of the doubt or do we regulate the market? i am firmly convinced that in the interests of our citizens, only the second option can really happen. if we look at the agreement that is on the table, it is a rules-based agreement that sets standards, that contains a commitment to environmental protection and that concerns the obligation to respect workers' rights. it's certainly not perfect, no question about it. you can still make things better. but it is a clear sign to the tariff man on the other side of the atlantic, to one who does not want to enforce the law, but the law of the stronger. so i think it's also an important geopolitical sign that we want to establish rules-based trade with a reliable partner. this is also a signal to the united states for future negotiations.
i have to say, madam president, i have a favor to ask. a few days ago i was inundated with spam, thousands of emails telling me what fate awaits us if we agree to this contract. i would ask my colleagues who have contacts with these groups to tell them to stop bothering us with identical emails. i admire mr. scholz. you are a very smart man. and mr. buchner. if i can hear you. you know, the single market we have would not have come about if it had been your way. the single market means that competition will be more intense. this is the opportunity for productivity gains, for that is what we live on. i just don't understand why people like you, who have a clear mind, are against this agreement. that's an ideological bias you have, isn't it, mr buchner? it's just childish what i'm hearing about your affairs. you have to see the big picture now, not just the small one. i ask the groups to look at the whole picture and not just at the little things, but to put aside the ideology and to turn to the cause.
madam president, jefta is a landmark agreement for global free and fair trade. remaining committed to a rules-based multilateral order, we are as a european union proving that trade is about more than just tariffs – it is also about values and principles. trade is an important part of eu-japan relations; we have heard this this afternoon. however, securing peace and maintaining stability in eastern asia is also in our core interest. in april this year, i headed a committee on foreign affairs (afet) delegation to japan, with the objective of identifying areas of common interest in our foreign and security policy. out meetings in tokyo clearly demonstrated that japan and the european union are like-minded partners; we need to increase our cooperation, including at the global and strategic level. the strategic partnership agreement aims for solutions on common challenges such as climate change, energy supply and threats to security. i believe it is a major step forward and it demonstrates that we, as a european union, are a reliable and consistent partner and a true global player.
i have to say, madam president, as a member of the japanese delegation and with regard to our japanese friends, i would like to say something in japanese. the cabin knows. (speaker speaking in japanese)
excuse me, madam president, i had given the text to the german cabin and hoped the translation would work. i have said in short that both agreements are very, very important, that i will therefore be voting in favour of them, and that i am also convinced that both agreements offer great opportunities for the citizens of japan and the european union.
in writing. fair world trade is necessary. free trade agreements can be a good lever to promote, for example, better workers' rights and environmental protection worldwide. the free trade agreement with japan does not meet these requirements. jefta has some positive aspects. i expressly welcome the inclusion of the implementation of the 2015 paris agreement on climate change in a separate chapter of the treaty, thus going well beyond ceta. however, it is unacceptable that japan has ratified only six of the eight ilo nuclear work standards. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the drafting of the new treaty on european union. i also criticise the fact that the jefta is not taking advantage of the possibility of a stricter climate and environmental protection policy. again, no sanctions were included in the event of infringements. in addition, there is no right of action for employees. the agreement is characterized by an anti-democratic attitude which seeks to restrict the scope for policy making in so far as it has a negative impact on free trade. this makes it difficult for national and local authorities to adopt new environmental or occupational safety and health rules, as these can be considered as 'non-tariff barriers to trade'. the opportunity to shape globalisation and close the gap between the winners and losers of world trade has been missed again with jefta. that is why we should reject the agreement.
the spontaneous word exchange is now in progress. i'm very sorry that i have more verbal messages than we can take into account. i beg your indulgence. spontaneous speech
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i shall contribute to your efforts to manage time by simply thanking those of you that bothered enough to come into this hemicycle and take the floor to support the work we have done and the positions we have taken during these years in defence of all those in turkey who have worked and continue to work for human rights and democracy. it is not always an easy task, but we believe it is something we do not do against turkey, but for turkey and for all turkish citizens that aspire to a different kind of life. many of us have considered and still consider demirtaş an interlocutor, and i had the chance to express publicly in ankara just a couple of weeks ago the expectation we have – commissioner hahn and i, in the name of the european union – to see the decision of the court implemented by the turkish authorities. no clear position could have been expressed publicly at that moment, and i thank this hemicycle for supporting that position. the work will continue.
the debate is closed.
the next item is the joint debate on the report of mr mcallister, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report on the implementation of the common foreign and security policy (2018/2097 (ini)) (a8-0392/2018) and the report of mr paşcu, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (2018/2099 (ini)) (a8-0375/2018).
rapporteur. – mr president, with this year’s annual report on the common foreign and security policy, we have identified the major issues our union faces and we also outline possible ways forward. the eu security environment is today more volatile, more unpredictable, more complex and more ambiguous than at any time since the end of the cold war. we have often heard the high representative telling us about this in this plenary. we all know that we are confronted with a number of interstate conflicts, also in our immediate neighbourhood, with terrorism, failed states, cyber attacks and hybrid warfare. the european union has a growing responsibility to safeguard its own security, while, on the other hand, defending its interests and values in the world. the time indeed has come for the eu to take its destiny into its own hands and embrace its role as a fully-fledged sovereign, political and economic power in international relations. colleagues, we all know that no single eu member state can respond effectively to today’s global challenges on its own. we must continue to promote our european values while staying committed to multilateralism, a rule-based international order and economic cooperation. i would like to highlight two very important aspects that should shape the eu’s foreign policy in the future. the first aspect is the so-called integrated approach to external conflicts and crisis as a framework for a more coherent and holistic engagement by the eu. the european union is a major player when it comes to diplomacy, trade, development cooperation, humanitarian aid and – step-by-step – also in the field of security and defence. however, our union should act strategically by using its wide array of policies and instruments to respond to the challenges in our direct neighbourhood and beyond. the second aspect concerns the effectiveness of the eu’s decision-making process in foreign policy. as a union, i believe we should be able to reach positions by qualified majority voting in the council; the need for unanimity keeps us from being able to act credibly on the global stage. would this entail amendments to the treaty? i believe not, because article 31 already allows the european council to determine which decisions may in the future be taken by a qualified majority. colleagues, as this is a joint debate on both reports, a short remark on the european union’s common security and defence policy by my colleague mr paşcu. soft power and institution- building alone cannot be sufficient to exert influence in a world where power politics is increasingly significant. the effectiveness of the eu’s foreign policy will depend on an adequate combination of soft and hard power tools. looking to the left of the plenary, becoming a credible hard power does not mean militarising the european union; we should rather become more autonomous and live up to our global responsibilities. yes, federica mogherini, the european union’s common security and defence policy is on track. pesco has been launched to strengthen our security and defence, with 25 member states participating. moreover, the european commission has proposed an eur 13 billion european defence fund for the years 2021 to 2027 to increase our strategic autonomy, to bolster our ability to protect our citizens and to make the eu a stronger global actor. with today’s debate and tomorrow’s vote on the edf, this parliament can send out a strong signal in support of the fund. finally, i would like to thank my shadow rapporteurs for their good and fruitful cooperation. it was, and is a pleasure, to witness that at least the larger political groups in this house act in concert towards a stronger common foreign and security policy of our union.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this is a debate that i am taking as high representative, so this is the right side of the chamber. let me start by thanking david mcallister and ioan mircea paşcu for their excellent work. looking at your reports, i see very clearly a shared understanding of our world and of our joint place in this world as europeans. we all agree that no single european country can respond effectively to any of the challenges of our times and that we, the european union, have a responsibility to embrace our role as a global power, working together for peace, security and human development worldwide, and in some cases even filling a gap. and yet, we also have an interest in doing so, because together we have unparalleled leverage in shaping global rules, peace processes or trade agreements. let me say this very clearly: i believe there is no contradiction at all between european interests and national interests, in particular in this field. the european union is the most powerful instrument we have, as europeans, to serve our national interests on the global scene. none of our member states is big enough in the world of today to pursue their own national interests all alone, and this is why some in the world might cherish divisions among us. it might be in their interest, but never in ours. likewise, there is no contradiction between our support for multilateralism and the work to advance our european and national interests. we know from experience that our national and collective interests are best served through multilateral institutions, and the european union is in itself the most successful multilateral institution that was ever built. we need multilateral institutions to promote rights, to protect the environment and to govern globalisation. we need multilateral institutions to build peace and security worldwide. we couldn’t do this without them in our multipolar, disordered world. when we join forces, as europeans, and take part in global negotiations, we are not giving up on our sovereignty. on the contrary, we are exerting our sovereignty more fully and more powerfully on the global stage. this is why we have chosen the united nations as our fundamental partner. we are the first economic contributor to the un system, and we support guterres’ work to reform the un system and make it more effective. we are also exploring new ways of working together, for instance by ensuring full complementarity and compatibility between all our new projects on the ground. our foreign policy is cooperative by definition. the mcallister report rightly points out that the transatlantic partnership remains indispensable for europe, for america and for the rest of the world. in spite of substantial disagreements with the current administration on certain issues, we continue to work together on the great majority of issues, from ukraine to afghanistan, and from the balkans to north korea. in these years, we have also deepened our cooperation with other traditional partners – the african union: our cooperation with them is now closer than ever – and the same can be said about a great number of partners, from our eastern partners to asean, and from canada to japan or central asia. i also very much agree with your idea to work on issues—based coalitions of likeminded countries and regional organisations, but also with other global powers. this idea has already driven our foreign policy in these years, successfully, i believe. our work on climate change or the work to preserve the nuclear deal with iran are both examples of our readiness to engage selectively and with ad hoc coalitions. i will not go through all the geographical priorities and the current conflicts, but let me just mention three points as a matter of priority: first, the western balkans. david, i couldn’t agree more with the report. our common goal is to bring all the balkans inside the european union, and we have two urgent tasks ahead of us now: to continue to work tirelessly with our friends in belgrade and pristina so that they can reach a legally binding comprehensive agreement to fully normalise their relations, and finally to open accession negotiations with tirana and skopje. let me mention two other priorities: ukraine – we will have a specific debate on this later this evening so i will keep it for later. the third priority i would mention is the conflicts in the mediterranean and, in particular, syria, yemen – the beginning of a dialogue on yemen and with the yemeni parties in sweden is also part of the diplomatic work we have done to bring some of these parties to the table – but also libya and the conflict in israel and palestine. i believe the european union has had and continues to have a unique, even though difficult, role to play, but i am sure that we will continue to work together to support a sustainable political solution to each one of these crises. the mcallister report underlines that we europeans have an unparalleled potential as a force for peace and security with a unique set of foreign policy tools. in these years, we have invested to strengthen and to multiply these tools. our work on security and defence is not a separate chapter from this, but it has constantly been part of this broader engagement for peace, security and human development. i would like once again to be very clear on this, as you have been, david. our work on security and defence is not a way to militarise our union and will never be. for instance, it is not at all in contradiction with our work for non—proliferation and disarmament. on the contrary, as you all know, we are engaged on a daily basis against nuclear proliferation as well as to prevent new arms races here in europe and all around the world. our work on defence stays true to this approach. there is a unique european way to security and defence – a way that is very much needed in the world of today, that is very much appreciated, and for which i see a lot of demand. we have somehow the responsibility of exercising this special european way to peace and security. when we send a military mission abroad, it is to save lives, to protect peace or to help rebuild a country. when we invest in military capabilities, it is to defend our citizens from attacks or to put the best technologies to the service of peace. yes, we are investing in europe’s hard power – finally – and we would all prefer that we lived in a world where this was not necessary, but our work on defence is always – and will always be – at the service of peace. this is why it is so important to strengthen it at this time. it is also for this reason that i wanted a new compact on civilian missions to be an integral part of our work on a europe of defence. i talked about this in this chamber exactly one year ago, and last month the council approved our civilian csdp compact. the civilian dimension of our international missions is already a source of european pride today, from mali to ukraine, from iraq to somalia. we now want to expand our civilian action even more, with new capacities and shorter reaction time. the paşcu report calls for closer cooperation between our civilian and military initiatives. i totally agree with this, and it is one of the goals that we want to achieve with the civilian compact and with the reform of our command structures in brussels. our two command centres – civilian and military – will now work more closely together. on the military side, our command centre should also be ready by 2020 to run small—scale executive operations, so going beyond what it is doing now, which is commanding training and advisory missions. last month, together with member states, we also decided to double the number of cooperation projects in the framework of the permanent structured cooperation on defence (pesco) from 17 to 34. the new projects cover many capabilities that we collectively need, from drones to a european school of intelligence, from cybersecurity to aerospace. by investing together, we will invest our resources more efficiently and we will make it easier for national defence forces to work together. in the coming weeks, we will also finalise the general conditions for third states to be exceptionally invited to join pesco projects. the paşcu report also asks to move forward on military mobility and, as you know, work is going well on a project within the permanent structured cooperation, as well as at the european defence agency, and in full coordination with nato. let me add that this is not an investment done at the expense of civilian projects but, on the contrary, a clear dual-use investment. one of the main goals of all our work on security and defence is to help member states spend their resources more effectively. it is not up to the european union to define how much of the national budget is spent on defence, but we can help member states invest more efficiently and better. we can have an impact on the output of the investments. that is to say that, with the same investment, we will be able to achieve more for our citizens’ security. this is also the objective of the coordinated annual review of national defence budgets. we have concluded its trial run, and the review will become a standing activity as of next year. this will help coordinate defence planning among national governments to find new opportunities for cooperation and joint investments. finally, in support of this work, we have proposed a very substantive defence package for the next multiannual financial framework (mff). we want to address the fragmentation that has hampered europe’s defence sector for decades, again to make national defence investments more effective and efficient than they are today. i am particularly glad that the paşcu report supports my proposal to establish a european peace facility. our goal is to be more strategic in how we plan our missions and to work more closely with our partners to prevent new crises or to stabilise a country after a conflict. the facility would fully respect the legal parameters provided by the treaty, and it would avoid duplications with its existing instruments, as called for in your report. we all acknowledge the fact that security today is much more complex than it ever was. it is military, but it is also civilian. it is about defence, but also about development, artificial intelligence, climate change, crisis management and also reconciliation. it is about our own capabilities, but it also requires us to work to strengthen our partners and their capabilities around the world. i believe the two reports we are discussing today highlight this very well. there is no contradiction between investing in europe’s strategic autonomy and cooperating even more closely with our partners. on the contrary, we europeans are taking more responsibility for our own security and for the world around us, and we are doing this together – together with the united nations, together with nato, together with the african union, and with all our partners around the word. rather than discussing whether we have to choose between strategic autonomy or cooperation, i would say that we have chosen the path of cooperative autonomy and we’ve taken this path together, joining forces among the council, the commission, all our agencies and, of course, the european parliament, which has accompanied this process from the very beginning. this is a legacy that you can share with the council and the commission as the mandate comes to an end. we still have a few months of common work ahead of us. they will be important months for many of the issues we have discussed, so my appeal to you is that we can still continue our fruitful cooperation and make the most of these few months ahead of us. let me thank you again for all the cooperation and all the support in these four years of working together in this field.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the discussions. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: i would like to thank both rapporteurs on behalf of our group, although i am going to focus more on the mcallister report in my speech because i was a shadow rapporteur on it. the report has a clear message: the challenges of our time also threaten the security of europe and call for stronger european diplomatic responses and decisive responses. this also means that decisions must be taken more quickly. we therefore call for a shift towards more qualified majority decisions in the council, in particular in the case of eu civilian missions or in the field of human rights. europe needs a stronger and better coordinated foreign policy. this is not a criticism of the high representative, but rather a call to member states to continue to work in this direction. one reason is clear: the united states has turned its back on the multilateral world order on several occasions in recent months, for example by withdrawing from the iran deal. this deal is in our european security interest. the european union must not be allowed to become a mere spectator, but must be a witness to the fact that the european union is a great power. the only answer we can give to this is a united europe and effective multilateralism. now it's not just about soft power. we must also do more than we have done in the hard power sector. because it would be naive to say that soft power alone can solve the problems of our time. let me make one final point: we have tabled an amendment because we believe that the situation in yemen must be discussed. ... (the president withdrew the floor.)
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not there are indeed many things in the world that are of concern, particularly the fact that a quarter of the world's population lives in unstable and threatened states. mr juncker once said: 'we must defend our way of life - even militarily'. do we really have to, and should we? when two trains collide, it doesn't help to arm one; you have to use another track. for us, this would mean a different policy - an economic policy based on balance, on justice in a global context. unfortunately, these two accounts follow a different philosophy, a different logic. they are counting on isolation and militarization, on a military nucleus in europe which decides on war and peace without consensus. eu arms programme, defence fund, military mobility, pesco, combat groups of all kinds - all these projects are praised in the reports. but we think they are dangerous, and some of them - especially the defense funds - are illegal. because they are in breach of the law, according to article 41 (2) of the eu treaty. the eu has a right to prevent the eu budget from being used for military purposes, as a new legal opinion clearly demonstrates. we will make this legal opinion available to the public tomorrow.
unfortunately, dialogue without a microphone is not for posterity, if i may say so.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. the european union is the most important soft power on earth. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but we see that this alone is not enough. if soft power is not combined with hard power, it has only limited effect. i would therefore like to thank the two rapporteurs for presenting what they have presented. we need to be stronger here: with more majority decisions, more leadership. we need to use the coalition of the willing to find ways to make decisions faster, to become a factor. and we must make the necessary funds available more quickly to complete what we achieved with the defence union last december, where the member states are still too reluctant. the defence fund and the defence union must be done. but the pace is too slow because 230 billion euros are spent in europe on defence with too little return. mrs lösing wants to send the russian train armed to europe, not stop it. the christian thing, which mr schaffhauser .....
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to focus on the report by mr paşcu on the csdp and thank him for the good cooperation he has shown in this area. i think we can be proud as a parliament that we have not only accompanied but also pushed forward what has been developed in the field of csdp over the last one or two years. we also support the course the high representative has outlined in this context. i am pleased that we can see that, for example, the military planning and conduct capability can lead not only the training missions, but also smaller executive missions by 2020. and you can see that in these developments: it's going step by step. i also expressly support the proposed european peace facility. i believe that this will enable us to support those in third countries who do not want to be dependent on us being present in the country.
the spontaneous word exchange is now in progress. i have a lot more to say here than is on the agenda. i ask for your indulgence in this case too, if i cannot take everyone into account. spontaneous speech
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i shall vote tomorrow against the annual report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy and against the european defence fund, which is expressly welcomed in this annual report. why would you do that? the european union must be able to take action to ensure that the european union is not left to its own devices. the european arms industry is also indispensable for this. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. from a social democratic point of view, this would mean that the fund would also set itself the objective of achieving real budgetary savings throughout europe through genuine cooperation, and that the process of conversion of military and civilian production, which is necessary for this, would also be supported by industrial policy. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i will be brief. first of all i want stress the fact that it is exactly to strengthen the autonomy, but also a cooperative autonomy that the union has on foreign and security and defence policy, that we have done together with the support of the european parliament in this last couple of years a big work on the europe of security and defence and on strengthening our global role – exactly in a moment when the word is looking towards the european union, looking at us in search of leadership in many different fields. we feel the responsibility – i think rightly so – to respond to this demand in a positive manner. it is a demand from our citizens and it is a demand from our partners. i would like only to underline three points. first, some of you mentioned the issue of human security, and this is a principle guiding our action. i fully agree, for our security is never purely a military concept. the european way to peace and security is a way that comes from our history. we know perfectly well that there is no threat, no challenge, no crisis, that can be addressed only through military means. sometimes it is needed, and this is why we’re working on strengthening our defence work, but no threat can be addressed with military means alone. this is why we are strengthening our civilian and military cooperation in a way that has never been done before. the second point i would like to underline: it is not by coincidence that a strengthening, as never before, of the european union work on security and defence has gone hand—in—hand in these last years with a strengthening of eu—nato cooperation. it is exactly because we believe that strategic autonomy doesn’t mean going it alone, but means strengthening cooperation with our partners – starting from nato, but also with the united nations and other regional organisations that for us are key partners and allies. the third point i would like to underline that came up in the debate on the europe of security and defence: now, in these remaining few months of work this parliament has in front of it, i think we have some relevant work to do. first of all, consolidating the work that has been done so far on security and defence. and secondly, ensuring that there are adequate financial resources and instruments to sustain the work that has been envisaged so far. finally, let me thank the two rapporteurs, mr mcallister and mr paşcu, and i sincerely thank the european parliament for the support and the impulse it has given to our work in this field of foreign, security and defence policy. without the support and input of parliament we would probably have not got so far in our common work, so a sincere thank—you to all of you.
rapporteur. – mr president, i listened very carefully to what our colleagues had to say and i would like to thank everyone for an open and honest debate. special thanks go to the shadow rapporteurs and the speakers of the groups, but also to the high representative for her very constructive cooperation and her clear words and, in general, i would like to thank you, federica mogherini, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, for the good cooperation we enjoy. i would like to make one remark. this is also about what the high representative had to say at the end of the debate. this is the last common foreign and security policy (cfsp) report in this term. however, a lot of work lies ahead of us, in particular the ongoing negotiations of the next multiannual financial framework (mff), and i believe that with this next mff, adequate financial resources should be made available for our union’s external action, because this is a direct investment in the security of our continent. in these upcoming negotiations, we don’t only have to ensure adequate financing, but also the coherence, the effectiveness, the responsiveness and the flexibility of our external financing instruments and, most importantly, we shouldn’t get tired of stressing the need to adequately involve our parliament in the scrutiny and in the strategic steering of these instruments.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 12 december 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mr petras auštrevičius, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the annual report 2017 on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter (2018/2098 ((ini)) (a8-0373/2018).
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not this report contains many important recommendations and calls on the eu to develop a coherent eu human rights policy. the eu and its institutions must take a clear stand when it comes to attacks on multilateralism and human rights, to show that the law is for everyone and not just the strongest. we must show that a consistent human rights policy is not only possible, but necessary. despite many achievements in the field of human rights, we are again witnessing today strong attacks on fundamental rights, human dignity and also multilateralism. a few years ago, i had the impression that we democrats and human rights defenders were struggling to get off the defensive, that people often preferred to go after liars and right-wing populists who incite against refugees and minorities. but the impression was misleading. the call for the consistent protection of human rights has now returned to public spaces, including in europe. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and it is not the council that is responsible for these proposals.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. it is a very good report, and it puts the emphasis where it should be. i would like to congratulate you, ladies and gentlemen. it is important for the epp in particular that in future even more attention be paid to the growing problems in the area of freedom of religion and belief and in particular to the persecution of christian minorities. secondly, it is also essential to tackle more intensively the specific human rights problems associated with migration and the new information and communication technologies. thirdly, as trade coordinator, i am particularly pleased that the gsp+ programme is recognised in the report as an important instrument for the promotion of democracy and human rights.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i will just make three points. one is that, as some of you have mentioned – and some of you have mentioned specific human rights violations or specific work we are doing on human rights in the context of wars, crises and difficult situations around the world – the human rights component is, i would say, embedded and is at the core of every single action we take, every single policy we establish and every single piece of work we do daily in our services all around the world. from myanmar to yemen, from afghanistan to syria, libya to venezuela, to the balkans, the human rights, the promotion of human rights, the protection of human rights defenders lies at the core of our foreign policy in every single step we take. the second point i would like to underline – and this was not really underlined during the debate but still i believe this is very important – is that our credibility in our work on human rights in the world lies in our capacity to lead by example. the credibility of the european union as a global human rights defender and promoter lies in the standards we manage to keep inside our own member states and inside our own countries. for sure the commission can always do more, but i think that every single government in the european union has a responsibility and a duty to raise the bar and raise the standard of our implementation of human rights standards, because it’s not a mission accomplished and it’s not work finished. on the contrary, there are backlashes, also inside our european union, when it comes to standards of human rights and we should not turn a blind eye to this. this is also damaging our capacity to have an impact with our partners around the world. last but not least, let me thank the rapporteur for the excellent work done and for the excellent cooperation we have had over this time. let me also thank stavros again, as many of you have mentioned – and this is no surprise, coming from this parliament – but let me also sincerely thank the european parliament, as an institution, for the constant work and the constant credibility that has helped keep on our work on human rights. it has been really been an added value and a voice that has always been important to strengthen our work on human rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 12 december 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
the next item is the debate on the report by mr michael gahler, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the eu-ukraine association agreement (2017/2283 (ini)) (a8-0369/2018).
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. ukraine is making good progress in implementing the reforms agreed in the association agreement. we commend them for this. since signing the agreement in 2014, ukraine has implemented more pro-european reforms than in any previous year since its independence. the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement, which forms part of the eu-ukraine association agreement and entered into force on 1 january 2016, provides a solid basis for ukraine's economic development and modernisation. i am therefore pleased to say that over the past four years the ukrainian economy has not only stabilised but is also showing signs of recovery. but so far, the fruits of the reforms have not reached the citizens. twelve percent of the population have to save to afford food, 33 percent have to save or borrow money for clothes or shoes, 45 percent - almost half the population - have existential worries. these citizens rightly expect the country's new course to improve their living conditions. we are particularly concerned that despite all the progress made, corruption remains a serious problem. there is a widespread feeling of powerlessness towards the rich and the bold, especially the oligarchs. you can take out everything and still walk away with impunity. the fight against corruption must be carried out with much greater determination. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. our european experience shows that people are better off where small and mediumsized enterprises and freelancers can develop their economic activities without hindrance. we condemn the destabilisation of ukraine by russia. we demand the release of the arrested ukrainian sailors. we're calling for targeted sanctions if there's no release. we are about to celebrate christmas and new year's eve and we are asking mr putin to release the sailors so that they can experience this at home with their families. i want to say two things to the ukrainians. first, we will always support ukraine as a free european country. secondly, the best remedy against the destabilisation being undertaken by russia is to continue courageously on the european path. i would like to say to our citizens and to the friends and supporters of mr putin in this house: the future of the european union is also being decided in ukraine. if russia succeeds in destabilising ukraine, or even in bringing it back into its sphere of influence, with its increased activities against ukraine, this would have serious implications for european security, for the radiance of the western value model and for the effectiveness of the european union as a creative force. the european union is not prepared to accept the new situation in ukraine. that is why ukraine is not just any neighbour and the eu-ukraine association agreement is not just any agreement. that is why we are working for the common success of ukraine and the european union. i think that by awarding the sakharov prize to oleh sentsov, we are also giving the right signal at the right time, now, tomorrow. we appreciate his peaceful commitment to the rights of ukrainians in crimea. we are asking for the release of all ukrainian political prisoners from russian prisons, and we are, of course, asking for the release of oleg sentsov. russia must refrain from any further provocation and escalation in the region. international commercial shipping in the sea of azov must be able to pass through russian controls without hindrance and without delay, as required by international law.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the report by our colleague michael gahler comes at the right time. i thank you, even if we differ in our conclusions and evaluation of the implementation of the agreement for the bilateral relationship to be re-established. in view of the upcoming presidential elections and the continuing fragile security and dangerous conflict situation in the east of the country, it remains to be noted: the many domestic and foreign policy problems still unresolved - despite many reforms - and the growing gap between rich and poor require fundamental changes in the ukrainian government's policy. they require the overcoming of the oligarchic system as a prerequisite for economic progress. they require political readiness to implement the minsk protocol and to clarify it. the same applies to the russian leadership, including in view of the events in the azov sea, and to the russian leadership's refusal to take any action that would further escalate tensions in bilateral relations. it is a prerequisite for independent, active political and diplomatic international support for the urgently needed exit from the spiral of confrontation and violence in relation to the russian federation. the toleration of right-wing threats and attacks on dissidents, the politically motivated restriction of freedom of the media, the press and assembly, the imposition of martial law in the eastern regions of tension and the accompanying measures are only adding to the troubles of those who do not want to allow undemocratic structures to be overcome, who oppose the fight against corruption and the strengthening of independent judicial bodies.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the period of validity of the directive to the period of 1 january 1999. the commission is not thank you very much, mrs mogherini, for praising mr gahler and the delegation on ukraine. i believe that this report is indeed very balanced, critical and supportive in its treatment of all the progress, all the problems, but also all the blockages in ukraine. i would like to add very explicitly that i believe that in ukraine the direct influence of a few oligarchs on politics as a big problem still means that we are not making progress in some areas. i would also like to say, following the example of mr scholz: a friend wrote to me a few days ago, after critical debates about the imposition of martial law: if putin withdraws his troops from ukraine, the war will be over. if ukraine stops defending itself, then ukraine as it is organized today will not exist for long. we recognize this by trying to contribute to political solutions. after the escalation in the sea of azov, i would like to suggest once again that the osce observer mandate must be urgently extended to the sea of azov, that if the kerch strait and the shipping lanes are not opened to ukrainian shipping, we should close european ports to russian ships. i believe that we should also discuss personalized sanctions for those who are responsible in russia for the illegal arrest and pre-trial detention of ukrainian marines and sailors.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. despite some positive developments, i do not think that the implementation of the association agreement is satisfactory. the fight against corruption in ukraine has come to a standstill, and from a standstill, there can be rapid regression. the implementation of the electoral reforms proposed by the venice commission is also stalled, and the economic and social situation in ukraine is very problematic. all this is by no means a consequence of military conflicts and military conflict with russia, but is closely linked to the continued dominance of the oligarchs - to which mr poroshenko himself belongs - . the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has just recently authorised the payment of eur 500 million. the total amount of eur 3,3 billion has been disbursed since 2014 without sufficient progress in the fight against corruption, without any limitation of the power of the oligarchs and without any improvement in the economic and social situation of broad sections of the population. the commission is also expected to report fully to the ep on this.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, just a few words to thank again the rapporteur for his excellent work which will inform also the continuation of our work on the implementation of the association agreements. i would like to thank all colleagues for their input. this will also be reflected in the work we will do at the next session of the association council, next monday in brussels, with the prime minister of ukraine.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not thank you to the high representative also for the update on macro-financial assistance. and thank you very much to the members for highlighting some of the points which are also in the report. in fact, one aspect - freedom of the press - is important to us all over the world. the beauty of ukraine is that you can debate the deficits within the country, and they respond to criticism from outside the country. this is the difference with some countries even within the eu. i would also like to say that i find it remarkable that in this comprehensive treaty and in our monitoring of its implementation we have managed to bring together at least five groups in the committee on foreign affairs and tomorrow in the plenary. that is why it is important to send this signal that there is a broad majority here in terms of the policy towards ukraine, in terms of supporting the country both in its internal development, but also in terms of defending it in terms of the aggression that continues to be exercised by russia on the country in various ways. i therefore hope that we can maintain this broad consensus and that we can continue to work together to address the shortcomings that naturally exist within ukraine, that we support the real reformers and that we can continue to support the efforts of civil society, which is enormously strong. i hope that those who cannot agree with this report yet, although we have included some aspects of them in the report, will perhaps be able to do so next time. let us fight together for a democratic and stable ukraine! the people there deserve it, and they should always be assured of our support. i would also like to end with what mr demesmaeker said: (the speaker speaks a few words in ukrainian.)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. the commission is not i would like to begin by thanking commissioner oettinger and his team in the commission for the work they have done. i must congratulate you. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community, but that we should be concerned about the future of the community. you can put a little water in the wine, it comes out every year. in this respect, we must ask ourselves: is the procedure we are using here in the eu to draw up the budget really efficient? i mean, no. i say no because the members of this house should finally be clear: we are not talking about money that grows on trees or is dropped by helicopters; it is taxpayers' money. this is money that comes from the eu member states, which has to be earned first. it is incredibly disturbing to me when some speakers here pretend that the member states are the brakes and the eu is the great organisation that simply has to open the box and then we can immediately eliminate unemployment and support smes on an unprecedented scale. i think that is a completely wrong message; it does not send the right signals. the eu can do many things much better than individual member states, for example tackling the migration crisis. but we must also make clear what our political objectives are. before we spend money, we must first clarify what we are trying to achieve. the same is true of connecting europe and many other programmes we have that have their justification. but we need to do it more efficiently. until we do, we're on the wrong side of the tracks here. that is why i think we are going to remain below our means with this budget - unfortunately, god's.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i am pleased to be able to close this debate as the permanent rapporteur for the agencies in the budget of the european union. it is a very small budgetary area, but it is an important budgetary area because the agencies are very, very central to the functioning of the european internal market. they just can't do it with less and less money and fewer and fewer people. we have a situation where the number of agencies will continue to grow after the european parliament and the council have decided. i am talking about the european labour agency, the european labour authority, which will play an important role in monitoring the labour market. we have seen for years in the budget negotiations that the agencies are kept shorter than necessary, shorter than they want, and that this undermines the work of the agencies. the problem is that when the number of agencies increases and the budget does not, the work gets worse. it's actually a truism, only the council doesn't understand it. i think we need to change that. at least when asked to clarify that the agencies have reached their 5% staff reduction target.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i'm surprised it's my turn. we are connecting regions with the connecting europe facility, and those who connect regions by means of transport add value. i am therefore pleased that the commission's proposal for the cef is already of such high importance. i am also pleased to see the european parliament's position, particularly on rail and waterways. we therefore support the report, but we are having some problems with the votes to be held. i think that the point here should be even more that the cef funds cannot be blocked for years. if countries are not able to use the money, they must be able to release it for tendering. the financial resources of the cef are unfortunately not what the construction needs require. i therefore feel that it is a really destructive signal from the european parliament that we in the committee of the regions want to reduce the 10 billion we are entitled to for the cef to 4 billion. this is destroying the cef in eastern europe. i ask the european commission and i ask the council not to follow this destructive vote of parliament, because we want to keep the cef in eastern europe.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on foreign affairs. the commission has already made a number of proposals. chancellor angela merkel said here four weeks ago - and i quote her word for word - that the days when we could rely on others without reservations are over. end of quote. yes, it is. we europeans must strengthen our destiny and take it into our own hands. but a european union which protects must not only want to act, it must also be able to do so. as rapporteur for afet, it is important to me that the eu's strategic autonomy is not a matter of whether, but of how. with increasingly complex weapons systems, it is becoming more difficult for each member state to research, develop and ultimately procure and maintain such products on its own. the european defence fund promotes cross-border cooperation and the joint development of the next generation of defence assets, whether in land systems, new aircraft developments, naval projects or in the cyber domain. we are thus taking an important step towards a european defence union and thus - and this is crucial - towards greater security for our citizens.
rapporteur. – mr president, when we talk about research, are we just talking about research or are we talking about, in substance, the basis of the well-being of this continent? we owe to the labour of our working population in europe, but the basis of our well-being is innovation. we are just 10% of the world population but we are consuming practically more than 40% of social welfare expenditure. and the reason why we can do that is innovation. labour costs are fairly high, we are in a global competition. the reason for the well-being of this continent relates, starting in the 18th century, to its ability to innovate. the historic legacy of the enlightenment is very much related to that. i am referring to that because we are at a crossroads. we decided, and the heads of state decided, almost 10 years ago that we were going to spend 3% of our gdp until 2020 on innovation, just to keep up with the chinese, the americans and other competitors. but we failed. we are spending almost 2% of gdp but we have to catch up. that is the reason why the ambitious budget proposal by the commission and the even more ambitious budget proposal by parliament are so important. it’s not for soapbox speeches, it’s not for the sake of academic life – it is about the substance of the well-being of this continent. i think what we are going to achieve with that programme is, first of all, going back and tackling the big challenges which are related to the ordinary life of citizens. we want to tackle children’s cancer. in terms of technology, we want to have a quantum computer. we are leading but we have to do something about that leadership and we want to have a quantum computer 10 years from now. i think what’s important to understand is that this is not just another programme, that it is one of the biggest contributions to the european economy, but also to the well-being of european citizens. that relates also to the fact that we want to have a programme which is open to the world. we don’t want to be copycats like china. we don’t want to have an ‘america first’ like the united states. this is the continent which is open to the world; we are not naive, but we want to ask the world to work together with us. a second issue which is important and also an achievement for parliament is that we are reflecting on the fact that we are living in an ever-changing innovation environment. it’s new, it’s fast, it’s ambitious, it’s driven by vc capital and it’s competitive. and we did that in the past in a top-down way, starting in the 19th century where the sovereign and then later the state or the commission top-down decided on the issues. i think the fast track the commission and parliament are now attributing is an achievement because its bottom-up. if you’re a researcher, if you’re an innovator, if you’re smart, if you’re innovative, you can go to the commission and say: ‘in the framework of what has been decided in the programme, do we get funding? are we ambitious? are we fast enough in the international context?’ and i think that is an answer. it’s a game changer that we have more of a bottom-up approach. i would like to refer also to revolutionary issues such as what we did in the energy challenge. for the first time, we don’t fight the fight between co2 reduction and competitiveness, we just focus on energy production. what we are going to say is: yes, it’s not a contradiction both to do co2 reduction and to be competitive, but we have to do something about that and that is to focus on manufacturing. we want to have co2-free steel plants. we want to have more ambition but we want to align co2 reduction and competition. so it’s a big programme, it’s a smart programme, it’s a progressive programme and i think we would like to see the council acting as fast as parliament. we did that in six months and we cannot delay that. we should have a deal before the election to show europe, to show the world, that we are able to act.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you so much for all the comments and the suggestions and i really feel that we all agree on the main points, and that really is extremely important for europe. so thank you very much to all of you and the work of the rapporteurs and everybody around. i wanted just to make a very quick point on something that the member of the european parliament marisa matias brought on the innovation principle, because i think we have some misunderstanding here that is important that all the members know. first, that the horizon europe proposal does not in any way establish the innovation principle or incorporate it into eu law. it’s referred in the recitals, but it’s not something that is in the proposal. second, i think there’s a misunderstanding in between what the innovation principle is. we need an innovation principle as we need the precautionary principle. both are complementary and both are important for europe. that’s something that i’ve said, it’s something that was in the council conclusions of last year, of the competitiveness council. because if you want to protect people, and if you want to have rules that are future proof, you really need to think about innovation because technology changes every day. the innovation principle is about helping us future-proofing our rules and i wanted to be quite frank on that. second, i think that really, i want to call both on the european parliament and also on the incoming romanian presidency. i think that we have such a great momentum. we have such an amazing energy that we can swiftly go and do it as far as we can and have an interinstitutional negotiation as soon as we can, and i’m convinced that there is still a window of opportunity to conclude the political agreement. that, i think, is the dream of everyone that is today in this room because we want to have that political agreement. so, please, i think that more than ever we should unite, because i see from today in our discussion that in the very main points of the future of europe – of the well-being of the citizens – we all agree.
i have to say that i am not in favour of this. the commission is not first of all, in a political dialogue between the european parliament and the european commission, which is sometimes quite critical, i should like to say that you have presented an ambitious programme. thank you for that. they picked up on trends: we are more innovative in the programme, we are faster, we are more ambitious, and with the eisc we are addressing for the first time the new start-up scene that brings us new technologies almost every day. i think parliament has taken up your proposal. but i would also like to address the citizens of europe - in these days when we often talk about the difficulties in europe, also about a europe which sometimes threatens to fall apart - that is the good europe. we have taken up the commission's proposal here in parliament within a very short time, we have substantially changed it - but as a contribution and not as a criticism. we did this together. it has been supported by all the political groups, but also by all the nationalities here in parliament. i think it is just important to understand that this is not a research programme, but an important contribution to the people of europe - also to young people - in terms of innovation, in terms of start-ups. for artists and creatives, because we have for the first time taken up the creative industries in europe, for classical research, for basic research. we have taken care of gender balance. we have tried to find a compromise between reducing co2 on the one hand and on the other hand europe's competitiveness, and we have done it together. we share a dream and a vision to be proud of the fact that we are launching the largest research programme in the world. i would like to say to the council: the commission was ambitious, parliament was ambitious and fast, and now we must take the decision in the council so that we can send a signal for a europe that is determined to act before the european elections. mr macron, mrs merkel, the heads of government can be heroes, but they can also fail a little if we put the whole thing off.
president of cyprus. mr president of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament, allow me first to condemn in the strongest terms the terrorist attack that took place yesterday here in strasbourg. i express my deepest sympathy and condolences to the families, and wish a speedy and full recovery to those who were injured. terrorism constitutes one of the more serious threats to the peace and security of our union. we shall not allow fear and terror to prevail. instead, we shall remain united in enhancing our efforts to eliminate this deplorable phenomenon. mr president, it is a great honour for me to address the plenary session of the european parliament in the presence of the presidents of the eu's political institutions and before the european citizens, and to have the opportunity to present my thoughts and ideas, but most of all, my vision for the future of the union. i do so, ladies and gentlemen, with the full consciousness that i am addressing the institution and symbol, if you will, of the heart of democratic europe, where the timeless principles and values that permeate the development of the great common european family are embodied. as the european parliament, you are one of the most important pillars and safeguards of the democratic functioning of the union, and your role is and will remain crucial. ladies and gentlemen, for cyprus and its people, its accession to the european union in 2004 was the sealing of a european orientation and a millennium-old identity. it has been strongly supported by the cypriots not only as a source of stability and prospect of prosperity but also as a potential catalyst in the ongoing efforts to reunify and consolidate security and peace in my country. i would like to emphasise that in 2004 greek cypriots and turkish cypriots identified their own future with the future of europe, in the belief that the same conditions of order, peace and security prevailing in the other member states would soon prevail in our country. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today's europe was founded on the horrors of two world wars as a result of the collective conscience and responsibility of courageous leaders who believed in cooperation and unity. their aim was economic cooperation in principle, but in the course of their evolution the safeguarding of human rights, the rule of law, the well-being and security of citizens through economic integration and the establishment of the four fundamental freedoms. in order to achieve these goals through collective, hard work and labour, the union has emerged as the most valuable model of peace and prosperity in modern history, a model that we must preserve and strengthen, and it is indeed with great anxiety that we are watching the latest developments and trends that tend to shake the unity that has for years distinguished the union. i believe that we should be very concerned about developments and trends such as the withdrawal of a member state from the european union, the closure of borders in breach of the schengen treaty, the resurgence of nationalist tendencies, the devaluation of the role of the union through the rise of populism and the attempt to implement the principle of solidarity, and the intensification of the phenomenon of terrorism, such as the one we unfortunately experienced yesterday. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a step in the right direction, and it is a step in the right direction. ladies and gentlemen, president juncker has presented an ambitious programme for the term of office of this commission, with a view to the next european elections, which are now approaching. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is a first-class opportunity to listen to civil society so that we are better able to assess effectiveness and to re-target our policies to make them more beneficial to citizens. we need to listen to the people in order to understand the deeper causes of the indignity expressed as a sign by the high abstention rate in the european elections and to understand the reasons for the gap and the crisis of confidence. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. what kind of europe do we want, and what lessons have we learnt from europe's course so far? what is it that we need to improve and how? how close are we to the civilians? what are the root causes of the growing tide of nationalist and populist movements and how could this phenomenon be tackled? how are the growing social and economic inequalities within europe being tackled? i believe that there is an urgent need for clear answers in the context of honest self-criticism, reflection and, ultimately, re-orientation, so that we can see where we have failed and what we must do better, so that citizens can once again trust the union and its institutions. to feel secure again, convinced that all challenges are being met, to experience in his daily life the positive impact of common policies in areas such as health, the environment, working conditions, areas affecting the problems of everyday life and the well-being of citizens. the european union is a mosaic of states and peoples whose beauty and value derive from their composition and diversity. each piece has its own value, greater or lesser, as well as its own peculiarities. the mosaic is incomplete in any case when even the smallest fragment is missing. so the power and the value is in the composition and the unity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the future of the european union. ladies and gentlemen, in 2013 when i took over the presidency of the state, i was faced with painful dilemmas. cyprus has faced a severe economic crisis which, given the size and nature of its economy, has affected the majority of its citizens negatively. by taking difficult but necessary decisions, by taking concrete and concerted measures and by supporting the cypriot society, which has experienced economic consequences comparable to those following the 1974 invasion, we have made substantial cuts and implemented reforms that have enabled our economic reconstruction to take place sooner than the most optimistic would have expected. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the information provided by the european parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to take a decision on this matter in due course. among other things, i could briefly mention the exit from the economic adjustment programme, and in fact in a shorter period than the international community expected, continuous upgrades by the rating agencies and the reintegration of cyprus into the investment grade, the exit of cyprus to the international markets, a positive growth rate of close to 4% for the fourth consecutive year, a continuous downward trend in unemployment, recording the highest annual decline among the member states and, for the fifth consecutive year, we are now expected to have a budgetary budget. ladies and gentlemen, we are committed and determined to maintain macroeconomic stability, to extend the conditions under which surpluses and high growth rates have been achieved and to give further impetus to the excellent prospects created in the main productive sectors. the same approach is being taken with regard to the european union budget, the ongoing negotiations on the new multiannual financial framework for the period 2021-2027, which should reflect the growth trajectory europe has entered after a difficult decade due to the global economic crisis. we want an ambitious budget that includes those expenditures necessary to address contemporary societal challenges; challenges that address a wide range of priority areas such as the digital transition, promoting sustainable development, climate change, innovation, migration, the rise of extreme nationalism, asymmetric threats and the fight against terrorism. at the same time, the new multiannual financial framework must be people-centred, focusing on the european citizen and improving his quality of life. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area. the new budget, now that we are going to be a europe of 27, must be suitably adapted but also flexible and balance our traditional policies with modern needs. in this context of closer economic cooperation, we must also seek to complete the banking union project in the light of a renewed monetary and economic union and to promote the capital markets union which will mobilise capital for investment in the member states. mr president, the common market, which recently celebrated its 25th anniversary, is undoubtedly one of the most important achievements of the european union. the long-term objective of defending the acquis of the common market requires all the necessary measures to be taken to adapt to the new data as they have developed, to respond fully to the modern needs of the digital age, to the challenges of the low energy footprint of a circular economy and, above all, to have a positive impact on the daily lives of its citizens. i look forward to discussing these issues tomorrow at the european council, from which i expect a strong commitment to a strengthened common market of the future. ladies and gentlemen, as we move from soft power to the common defence armament of the union, it is a fact that much has been achieved with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon. there is clearly room for further improvement, always in a climate of consensus and respect for the particular sensitivities of each member state. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. cyprus has been and continues to be a strong supporter of the ever-growing defence and military cooperation between member states. it is one of the countries which expressed from the outset its desire to join the permanent structured cooperation known as pesco. although we recognize pesco as a decisive step, our vision remains the military autonomy of europe. the creation of a euro-army, a force that will shield the union's borders and will operate - and i want to stress this - always deterrently and defensively and not aggressively in the interests of the european union. the european union is a political union, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people, a political union of the people. the unprecedented humanitarian crisis we have been facing in recent years imposes above all the need to put aside different approaches and narrow nationalist priorities. the southern neighbourhood of europe is facing massive migratory flows and the burden is disproportionate for the member states, especially those at the front line, including, i must admit, our country, which has recently been subjected to increasingly excessive migratory pressures, with the result that it is now the country that receives the most asylum seekers, always in proportion to the population of course. the commission is also aware that the turkish authorities have not yet taken any action to ensure that the turkish cypriot authorities are able to comply with the obligations imposed on them by the european union. it is not even cooperating with the cypriot authorities, because it considers that the republic of cyprus, a member state of the european union, is no longer a candidate country. i would say more generally, as regards the system, that there is an urgent need for a review of the common european asylum system and the dublin regulations to ensure a fairer distribution of the burden of migration and refugees among the member states, as this is now becoming absolutely necessary. another challenge, ladies and gentlemen, that we are called upon to face is that of climate change. i think that our commitment to the paris agreement and to systematic and coordinated action for a more ambitious policy in the context of the ongoing meeting in katowice, poland, is imperative. if we underestimate the visible risks, the consequences will be tragic not only for the ecosystem but also for the economy and, as you all know, for the daily lives of our fellow citizens. within the framework of our broader regional role and trilateral cooperation, we intend to take on a coordinating role at regional level to address the consequences of climate change and related synergies with countries in the region. as you know, the eastern mediterranean is one of the regions most affected by the effects of environmental change. mr president, the most significant challenge in the union's long history is the decision of the united kingdom to leave, with the result that the 27 are called upon to manage such a project for the first time. respect for the decision of the british people was of course the only option. as the european union, we have negotiated in earnest and with unity, supporting the michel barnier group, which has prepared the framework of principles that will allow the united kingdom to leave the union as smoothly as possible. we must admit that we are very satisfied with the overall result of the negotiations. we support a broad and multifaceted relationship between the united kingdom and the european union and we will continue to work towards that. the new relationship must be mutually beneficial, in full harmony with the principles of the european union, its structure and its autonomy. as regards the british bases in cyprus, we are also pleased that we have secured what we had set out to do from the outset, namely the unhindered continuation of the application of the european acquis, so that all european citizens residing on british bases can benefit from the benefits of the european acquis and continue to enjoy the rights and benefits of the union. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we in cyprus wish to contribute by our actions to a strong and united european union which promotes peace, stability, security, solidarity and the well-being of the peoples who make up its unique mosaic of values. in this context, taking advantage of our geographical position and our excellent relations with the neighbouring peoples, we have in recent years developed actions and synergies in the eastern mediterranean area. in a volatile region, we have methodically established, together with greece, tripartite cooperation mechanisms with countries in the region such as egypt, israel, jordan, lebanon and palestine on the basis of international law and the values of mutual respect and solidarity. on the recommendation of the cypriot government, our proposal to establish a permanent tripartite secretariat based in cyprus has been approved, in order to make our coordination more effective and to continuously monitor and evaluate the progress of this cooperation. the institutionalisation of tripartite cooperation is also proving to be of particular benefit to the european union, particularly in the energy sector, by contributing to the objective of energy security and diversification of the union's energy sources and supply corridors. it is also very important that the european union remains clearly in solidarity with the republic of cyprus in exercising its sovereign rights to explore and exploit its natural resources within the exclusive economic zone, while consistently and consistently pointing out the avoidance of any threats or destabilising actions incompatible with what is required by international and european law. ladies and gentlemen, in the introductory part of my speech i pointed out that the cypriots, at the moment of cyprus' accession to the european union, identified their own future with the future of the union and of the rest of the european citizens. they expected that membership would be a catalyst and would confer on them the same rights and the same level of respect for their fundamental freedoms as other european citizens enjoyed and enjoy in their own countries, without dividing lines, without the guaranteed and encroached rights of third parties, the presence of an occupying army and restrictions on basic freedoms. i often refer to my vision of a cyprus as a beacon of stability in the eastern mediterranean region. realistically speaking, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the light of this lighthouse will be less than its potential maximum power as long as cyprus remains divided. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. while the union is dealing with the management of new tragic wars that have resulted in millions of people becoming refugees, the refugees of cyprus continue to be deprived of their basic freedoms, unable to enjoy their property in peace and to live in their homes as they have every right to do. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is the european union which is the most important force in the world. the president and the members of the committee on petitions of the european parliament are fully aware of the facts and allow me to express here on behalf of all the cypriots my gratitude and satisfaction for the response of the committee and its action, particularly with regard to the besieged town of famagusta. i cannot but agree with the conclusions of the report, in particular that the return of the varosians to their legal residents would be the most ideal model of confidence-building measures, a model of coexistence and cooperation between greek cypriots and turkish cypriots. a great precursor if you want the total solution. i would also remind you that in 1984 and 1992 the international community, through the united nations security council and through resolutions 550 and 789, called for the transfer of the administration of this area, which is under turkish occupation, to the responsibility of the united nations. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, europe, which rightly takes an active part in or takes initiatives to solve international problems, i believe has a moral duty to help solve the problem of a member state. a problem that is an open wound in her own body. the healing of this wound will strengthen the union not only morally but also substantially, since only then will cyprus be able to play its role to the full in an area of particular importance to the union's interests. what i want to assure the members of the european parliament is the will and determination to work tirelessly to achieve a solution that will not create winners and will not leave any losers, a solution that fully respects the expectations and concerns of the greek cypriots and turkish cypriots, that will create a functional and viable federal state, on the basis of the united nations security council resolutions, the occasional agreements between the leaders of the two communities, a sovereign and independent state, free from the conditions of dependence on third parties through interventionist or guarantee rights or an occupying army. a european state whose structure, institutions and functions will be fully in line with european principles and values. we therefore support in every way the efforts of the un secretary-general and his special envoy, in the hope that conditions will soon be created which will allow us to return to the negotiating table, to the table of an agreed framework and the terms of reference being drawn up with a view to a comprehensive solution and the reunification of the country. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it would be an unconscionable omission, i believe, if i did not take the opportunity afforded me today to express the grateful thanks of the cypriot, greek and turkish cypriot people to the european parliament for its unwavering support for our efforts to find a peaceful solution in a european state. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion i would like to thank you once again for the opportunity to develop my vision of the future of europe, how we cypriots see the european union. there are many, ladies and gentlemen, challenges and justifiably high expectations from us. the european union is a great example of the kind of europe that can be built on the foundations of the european union. we are the continuators of the original vision of a strong and prosperous europe, not only to preserve our precious mosaic but to further highlight it. it is for this prosperous europe that we must join forces, putting aside different approaches and narrow national interests, in order to deal effectively with common challenges. the european union is a great example of a great europe, a great europe, a great europe. thank you very much.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, president anastasiades, our thoughts and hearts are with the victims of last night’s horrible attack against humanity. this we condemn with great firmness. we are grateful for the tireless work of the first responders, and we trust in the work of the law enforcement services to bring those responsible to justice. we will continue to defend our free and open societies by all means available to us. the city of strasbourg is a symbol of european peace and democracy: values that we will always defend. the european commission stands alongside france and the french people at this very difficult moment. honourable members, i wished we had a better situation to talk about the future of europe than where we are today. nevertheless, we cannot give up. we need to continue building a better and safer europe for our citizens. intolerance and hate don’t belong in our societies, and they don’t represent our values. i want to thank mr president, my good friend nicos, for being here today to debate the future of europe. i remember when we talked about the future of the eu in the prime minister’s office in finland many years back. we have continued this discussion during all these years, and now we are here in the european parliament to discuss with you, honourable members, the challenges, opportunities and direction of the european union. mr president, you and your country has always shown a great european solidarity. you have shown this time and again over the years. when it comes to migration, you have always been there and taken much more than your fair share of responsibility. the financial economic crisis also hit cyprus harder than most. the effects will not go away overnight, but today i see a recovering labour market and economy – growing by over 4% in 2017 and continuing at an impressive rate this year. i see a more stable financial sector with a lower – although still too high – rate of non-performing loans. i see also investment returning thanks, in part, to the juncker plan, which has helped trigger eur 109 million of additional investment. it has also supported 124 smaller companies, or start-ups, to grow and create jobs locally. i will visit cyprus at the end of january to discuss further use of the juncker plan in order to help boost growth and job creation. but if the situation has turned around, it is because of the strength and hard work of the cypriot people. i want to pay tribute to them in particular, for everything they have done. i also want to pay tribute to you, mr president, dear nicos, for your commitment to the programme of recovery. tough decisions made and the commitment to making them work should never be overlooked by anyone in europe. we know there’s still a long way to go and the commission will assist you every step of the way, including through tailored support offered by a structural reform support service. it has already provided eur 520 million to support the economic integration of the island and improve links and contacts between its two communities. but it also continues to support cyprus across the board, including meeting its climate and energy costs. the point is that as we look to the future, europe will stand in solidarity with cyprus, just as cyprus has always stood in solidarity with europe. and nowhere is that more important than when it comes to bringing to an end the division of the island. the commission will stand ready to assist any efforts. the commission will always answer your call to support any negotiations or discussions held under the auspices of the united nations that work towards a fair, comprehensive and viable settlement. this would be beneficial for cyprus, for europe and for the wider security and stability in the region. there would be no more important message for our common future. but we must prepare that future as of today. later this week, european leaders, including the president, will have a real discussion on our future long-term budget. this is not about numbers or figures only; it is about our future. it is about deciding what europe should achieve, and it is about deciding where to invest in our future, on the issues that matter to most to the people of cyprus and the whole of europe. this is why the commission has put forward a fair, modern and balanced budget. a budget that is more efficient and more focused on the issues that matter to most – just as cyprus has all along been calling for. for instance, there will be an almost three-fold increase in funding for migration and security, to make sure that europe can protect its citizens. this will be especially important for cyprus, as a country that has taken so much responsibility in this area. funding for research and innovation will be increased by 50%. we have also proposed to double the means of erasmus+ and a new digital europe programme worth eur 9 billion will support europe’s digital transformation. all of these will provide real opportunities for cypriots and further boost the productivity of the cypriot economy. we have also proposed an enhanced reform support programme with eur 22 billion earmarked for key reforms identified in the european semester. all of this will make a real difference on the ground in cyprus and across our union. so it is crucially important that we can agree on our new budget as swiftly as possible. mr president, i count on your support, your counterparts’ support, and this house’s support, in order to make all this happen.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr anastasiades for his report. we've had a terrible night. i would like to begin by thanking you, mr president tajani, for the procedures you have followed and for the management of this difficult night for us. you have led this parliament strongly. and i would also like to thank the staff for ensuring the supply in the house and the drivers working at night. everyone was ready to take responsibility in this difficult situation. and for that, let's extend a heartfelt thank you to the staff of the house. (applause) ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. it's a day to remind us of our values, of the peaceful coexistence of this continent. in this night and in these hours, we are above all democrats. europe is for us the continent of freedom which must be defended. that is why, in the face of the terrible events of the last few hours, one thing must be made politically clear: that we will not be incited by radicals, that this is not a chance to sow hatred, that there is no clash of cultures. there is no battle of religions, but what there is is a rising of humanity against blinded criminals. we cannot allow hatred to be sown. (applause) the best answer we can give is what our president said: to continue our work. tonight, we learned a lot about our identity, about freedom in the european union. when we look to cyprus, mr president, we can learn a lot about our identity. seventy-two per cent of your citizens in cyprus feel like citizens of the european union, so they feel at home in the european union. sometimes we probably make the mistake of talking too much about the few anti-europeans in europe and forgetting about the millions and millions of europeans who really feel like europeans, like your citizens in cyprus. even in difficult times, they continue to do so. cyprus managed to overcome the euro crisis jyrki katainen was referring to this. in just three years, cyprus has completed the adjustment programme and gdp grew almost twice as much as the eurozone average in the last year. today, cyprus enjoys the highest government surplus in the european union 1.8% and in the last year, the unemployment rate decreased from 10.5% to 7.5%. twelve thousand cypriots have found a job during the last years, in a small country that matters a lot. so congratulations, mr president. i'm going to have to ask you. (applause) it is the achievement of your country, and it is the achievement of you as the president of this country and your idea to have stability, to have the will for reform and also the will for investment, which is exactly what jyrki katainen proposed for the future for the eurozone, to have positive economic development. what i want to underline is your readiness to take over responsibility. you didn't blame brussels for any kind of measures; you didn't attack brussels for any kind of activities, like so many other leaders in the european union are doing every day. you took over responsibility, and that's why i really want to congratulate you for the efforts you made. the second point i want to underline is security. cyprus is one of our smaller countries, and in your country's geographical situation, it is important to talk about defence. that's why i thank you so much for your clear commitment towards a strong pillar of defence for the european union. my group is strongly supporting the idea of a cyber-security unit, and also of a unit for drone technologies, though especially in the modern forms of defence we have strongly to work together. and on the turkey question, we know turkey goes in the wrong direction: away from democracy, less freedom of press, less rule of law. turkey is distancing itself from the values of the european union, and that is why i think it is time to consider a new approach on the cooperation with turkey. take case by case relationships to open a door for the future. on the concrete cyprus question, it is clear to us that the interests of cyprus are the interests of the european union. mr president, please pass a message in this question of turkey: we are all cypriots, we are backing the position of the cypriot president. and on the energy union, as a final point, i want to underline that today we, as europeans, are depending a lot on oil and gas from foreign sources. the efforts of cyprus to find greater supply of natural gas would not only benefit your country, but also benefit the interests of the whole european union. that's why we, as europeans, do not allow any forms of threat and blackmailing from our neighbours. we must stop, on the one hand, nord stream 2, which would make europe more dependent on russian gas. and on the other hand, we will not allow turkey to slow down the cypriots in their search for different energy sources. cyprus can count on europe in this concrete question. and for the conclusions, cyprus is a small country, but it makes a difference in europe. many big member states should take cyprus as an example for the determination and for the courage you had and you showed. the people of cyprus have to know that europe is your safe home and europe will stand by you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to join colleagues in expressing my solidarity with the victims of yesterday’s attack and their relatives. i would like to thank all the emergency services and everyone who helped yesterday in the city, as well as here in the european parliament. president anastasiades, thank you very much for joining us in this debate on the future of europe. cyprus is, of course, in a very difficult spot on the european map. your island is still divided, and i want to applaud you for all the efforts that you have undertaken in the past to overcome this divide and to get closer together for a solution on the island, based on the un parameters. but i am also worried that we haven’t seen much progress – any progress, really – on the talks recently. i would really like to urge you not to let this favourable political constellation pass by, because we might not have that opportunity in a long time – we might never see it again. we have a once-in-a-lifetime chance to find that solution. and just as in europe overall, a united cyprus will be beneficial for all its citizens. the eu also needs to be there and ready to provide any help necessary to achieve a solution. and you are in that unique situation right now to overcome the last divide in europe, to bridge the last divided capital in europe, and i wish you a lot of luck in dealing with that situation. but i’m also afraid that luck alone won’t be enough. it also needs common action by all of us. you are in a very unique spot, so it will need a lot of courage and a lot of action. president anastasiades, i am very grateful that you brought up the issue of climate change. i have to tell you that not many of your colleagues have done so before you, and of course cyprus is also one of the countries that’s most affected by climate change in the european union, even though none of us is going to be spared. we’ve seen desertification happening on the island, also extreme weather events. all those effects of climate change are very well known in cyprus. right now, we have the climate summit happening in katowice, and the eu’s role in achieving a safeguard for our common planet is absolutely vital. but the eu can only be as strong as its members are – and are willing to be – so i’m asking you: what is your government strategy and concrete proposals to mitigate the impact of climate change in cyprus? and what can you do in order to pressurise the other member states to do their share as well, because not everyone is really helpful in doing so? and of course to put words into actions we also need exactly the money in the long term budget that mr katainen mentioned earlier. the mff will be absolutely crucial in putting money behind words. words alone are not enough, and we need to act now in order to save that planet, because we only have one. cyprus would have a great potential, for example, for renewable energy. it could be a frontrunner in this regard, showing other member states the way forward, showing the whole eu how it could be done, and it could also become a hotspot for the relevant technology – but only if your government is ready to do something for that. finally, i would like to stress that the future of europe depends on all of us. it doesn’t only depend on big countries, some countries; it depends on all countries. it depends on all of us together – bigger or smaller countries, north or south, all member states have a responsibility to bring europe forward or it will not go forward. and we, in this house, also share that responsibility. no matter what party we are from, no matter which country we are from, the future of the european union depends on all of us inside this house, but of course also on each and every citizen. and there are always many opponents and many obstacles and times are always difficult, but that can never be an excuse for concrete action.
president of cyprus. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be very brief. plus the number of answers given in my secondary. i think that the first thing to be done is to thank the european parliament, and in particular the committee on missing persons, for their support in their efforts to give greater attention to another humanitarian problem, namely the search for missing persons, and to press turkey to finally accept the opening of thirty new points in so-called military zones. i wish we could change the geography and move either turkey or ourselves elsewhere, but as you can see we are condemned by geography to live next to each other, and that is why we prefer turkey to be a european country rather than an uncontrolled country which may have expansionist aspirations that often put security at risk. the german and cypriot governments are investigating the german tanks. what i want to repeat in closing is to reaffirm my determination and willingness to work with all the determination and courage required to achieve a solution that will finally allow the peaceful coexistence of greek cypriots and turkish cypriots in one state - and i want to emphasize this - that can work, that can inspire, that can sustain, that can give perspective to all the inhabitants, regardless of race, colour, origin and so on, religion and so on. we've proven in the past that we can coexist. we can prove this in the future, provided that there are no elements which would justify the overturning of the objective pursued, namely a state in which its citizens live and are guaranteed all the privileges of the rest of the european citizens. i thank you very much and i hope that the next discussions in the european council and, of course, in the european parliament will always be about the future of a strong europe, marked by the principles of solidarity and unity. thank you very much.
in writing. i support the president's call for a stronger europe. and the basis for this is unity and solidarity. but today, the focus is on a very different aspect: security and peace. i welcome the initiative of cyprus to promote, together with greece, close exchanges with countries such as egypt and israel. we need cooperation with these countries if we are to guarantee peace and security in europe.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to express my sorrow and sympathy for the victims of last night's heinous attack, for the people who lost their lives, for the injured and for the many who are still watching the images of yesterday, who were in the city centre, who, amidst the terrible impressions, also had to spend a terrible evening in fear and terror. i would like to thank the emergency services, the police, the many volunteers in the city centre who have taken care of the people, and all the colleagues in this house who have maintained order and provided care. we are deeply in their debt. please understand, mr president, that was the discussion last night, that we members insisted that we go with our colleagues and not before them. we, the family of the european parliament, belong together, and even in a dangerous situation we go together or we stay together. that was our wish. you followed through, and i thank you for that. let me say this: no violence, no attack... no attack, no violence will be able to undermine our passion for freedom and democracy. this is the house of european democracy. this is the house that will always defend freedom and democracy. we will not be shaken but, on the contrary, will strengthen our fight for our european values, for the european society of the equal and of the free.
rapporteur. – mr president, i will keep it short. this is a good day for europe, albeit against a very problematic background. we had the ambition of reaching 3% of gdp for research and innovation for 2020 and we failed. now, for the first time, we had an ambitious proposal by the commission; we had an ambitious and thoughtful parliament; we were super-fast and we are super-united; and we are now asking the council, in the name of researchers, in the name of european citizens, to get a deal before the european elections, so as to keep up with the competition and keep up the well-being of european citizens. this is a good programme and this is a united parliament. as rapporteur, i would like, in accordance with rule 59, to propose that the matter be referred back to the committee on industry, research and energy for interinstitutional negotiations.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i would like to begin by thanking my co-rapporteur, helga stevens, my shadow rapporteurs, the coordinators and all our teams, the commission and the experts who have supported us. our report is based on a year and a half of really well-founded and very intensive work. we have debated, we have argued, but we have all tried to come together to propose the best way to win the fight against terrorism. our report contains many proposals and recommendations to prevent radicalisation, to ensure social, cultural and security prevention, to involve citizens in volunteering and to support local organisations, then, going beyond that, to prevent the financing of terrorists, their supporters and networks, to identify and close loopholes in the law and to make appropriate proposals. we have also made sure that fundamental rights are respected and we have particularly emphasised our free democracy based on the rule of law. i would like to conclude by saying that i myself have lost friends to terrorism, and today i would like to express my deepest condolences to the victims, my deepest sympathy, and ask all of us to send a strong signal to the outside world. (applause from the centre)
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. this proposal is a bad proposal, and it is ill-conceived and it is not made any better by the fact that it is argued here, particularly by the social democrats, with very strong populist prejudices, all of which can be refuted if you think about it a little more closely. we are all for a fair and just tax system, and we are all against tax evasion and avoidance. but first, we have to realize that tax evasion and tax avoidance is of course a much wider phenomenon than just limited to the digital economy. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax is not applied to the entire territory of the community. we have other instruments for this and we should use them. but it also raises the question of whether the starting point that taxation is currently unfair is even correct. what are we taxed for? taxation is paid for companies using the infrastructure of a country the public services of a country . if digital companies don't have a physical presence in a country, then the question is: isn't it natural that they use less public infrastructure than companies with a physical presence? is there really a distortion, an injustice, as everyone in this house so casually says? in any event, the commission has not been able to prove that there is any unfairness. she didn't say how we should measure fairness in this case at all. what is being proposed is something that would be very complicated, very expensive and very bureaucratic to raise. and it's not clear that we're making any kind of improvement. because, of course, the profits from digital activities are taxed, but perhaps not at the corporate level, but only after distribution to shareholders. but of course, taxation takes place in the context of personal income taxation. so it is important to note that this is a struggle for distribution. it is a struggle for distribution between different states. it is difficult for the european union to brand unilateral measures by trump as protectionist and to demand unilateral measures itself.
i am sorry, but i have to say that i am not in favour of the amendments. the commission is not at my meetings in germany, people always ask me: yes, when will the digital tax finally come? because the european public expects politicians to do their part to make taxation fairer. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the contested tax rulings were based on the arm's length principle. every bakery and barber shop on the corner pays more, and people rightly feel that's unfair. it is finally time that the internet giants like google and facebook have to pay their fair share of tax revenue. it is up to the politicians to make these companies pay. the european parliament has once, in a rare unanimous vote, taken the path towards the introduction of a digital tax. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but in the end, a solid agreement was reached, until - yes, until the council announced that it wanted to postpone the introduction until st nimmerlein day and then only charge it on the advertising revenue of digital companies. yeah, where do we live? the german and french finance ministers and others are coming along and are making a fool of the european parliament by the european council. who else can explain this to people? let's send a strong signal to the european public tomorrow that the european parliament wants the digital tax! but let us also send a strong signal to national governments that tax justice is the order of the day and they must drop their blockade!
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this digital tax jumped like a tiger and ended up like a bedspread. originally, the tax was to apply to 180 digital companies, and now it is to be waived for the big players, such as amazon and apple. a digital tax that doesn't apply to amazon and apple is a bad joke. the delay and dilution of the digital tax by the federal government is a serious and costly mistake. but even this poor, minimal compromise has now failed in the council. the real problem is that unanimity is paralysing european tax policy. so let us overcome this unanimity! the treaties already provide for the possibility of taking decisions by majority vote under article 116 in the event of serious market distortions. so don't keep us waiting any longer! let us introduce the majority procedure in the field of taxation. mr juncker, mr oettinger, mr moscovici: it is in your hands to finally clear the way.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. that was just corrected. until now, it was a proposal for 1 cp, so that there would be no mistake. it 's motion 20 .
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, commissioner, honourable members, let me assure you that we agree that it is of the utmost importance to apply strong mechanisms to protect the union’s financial interests. where the council agrees to finance research, infrastructure or small and medium-sized enterprises, we do so on the understanding that this will improve the living conditions of our citizens and the competitiveness of our companies. we cannot allow money to be spent in an inappropriate way. the council is therefore a strong supporter of legal initiatives that strengthen the protection of the union’s financial interests, such as the recent creation of the european public prosecutor’s office (eppo) or the directive on the fight against fraud to the union’s financial interests by means of criminal law. the investigation into individual incidents and allegations is, however, the task of either national prosecutors and judges or the european anti-fraud office and, in future, as already mentioned, of eppo. i cannot therefore formulate any council views on specific cases of fraud or corruption allegations. i will however listen to your debate attentively.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the debate will give the commission the opportunity to inform you of the facts which concern you concerning the possible misuse of european programmes in a member state and a possible conflict of interest in this area. we're going to approach this matter broadly and without prejudice. let me give you a brief overview of the different periods: the most important current period is the one since 2 august this year. since then the new financial regulation adopted by this house and the council and the new article 61, which expands the definition of conflict of interest, has been made more specific, one might even say strengthened, have been in force. it concerns the direct, indirect and shared management of european budgetary funds. as regards this period, since 2 august, we have written to the government and the head of government of the country concerned to clarify our legal position on article 61 on conflicts of interest. we have received a first response and will now evaluate it further. important: during the period of the new financial regulation, no funds from european programmes have been paid to the member state concerned and/or to projects in the member state concerned. this means that since 2 august we have not observed any budgetary relevance in the implementation of the 2018 budget. we have also made it clear in a letter that we have no intention of pursuing any measures until we are satisfied with the legal situation and the conflict of interest has been resolved. secondly, in our letter we also clarified whether and how the duty of the person concerned to provide assistance and to resolve the conflict of interest could be fulfilled. conflict of interest under the financial regulation means that the person concerned must refrain from any action which may bring his interests into conflict with those of the union. the person must take appropriate measures to prevent a conflict of interest arising in relation to the tasks within his or her remit and measures to remedy situations that could be objectively perceived as a conflict of interest. the new rules also apply to shared management and are primarily the responsibility of the national authorities. the commission's role is to establish and maintain internal control systems and to take measures to prevent conflicts of interest, in accordance with the financial regulation. this obligation applies to all member states. we have therefore taken steps to inform you accordingly, to give you advice, and we are monitoring the measures that are being taken and have been taken. it is also clear that this is not just a matter for national authorities, but that the commission - our departments - are responsible for protecting the financial interests of the european union and are therefore also empowered to act accordingly. the commission's directorates-general for regional policy, agriculture and employment are doing this in liaison with the legal service and the general secretariat, as well as the budget dg, the agency for which i am responsible. we have received a number of official complaints for the period since 2 august, including from a czech member of parliament, from transparency international, and the prime minister concerned also wrote to us to explain the matter. we will thoroughly clarify the matter with the aim of resolving any conflict of interest and not make any payment from the 2018 or 2019 budget until then. the second period is the period before 2 august, which i shall divide again into the period when the persons concerned were not yet members of the government and the period when they were ministers in the government or were prime ministers. we divide these periods very precisely. we have arranged through our services for a comprehensive audit to be carried out, which our officials will carry out on the spot during several working days in january. what is the point of looking at the volumes, if you take into account the two budget periods 2007 to 2013 on the one hand and 2014 to 2 august 2018 on the other? it is a question of several programmes, it is a question of the second pillar of our agricultural policy, it is a question of the erdf in our coalition policy, and it is a question, to a very small extent, of the esf, the european social policy. agri our rural development programme , if you add up the two periods, is 115 projects with a total volume of european funds, so our co-financing size, of a total in both budget periods added together 12.4 million euro. we have co-financed 115 projects. a further 26 projects have been approved but not yet paid for. looking at the projects co-financed by the erdf regional policy and employment esf, the total for the 2007-2013 budget period is 76 projects with 44.3 million added total payments from the european budget. for the current budget period 2014 to 2020, again regio and employment, there are 26 projects with a total volume of almost eur 3 million. as i said, for the period after 2 august, we will work to ensure that the conflict of interest is eliminated, in our view, with our interpretation of article 61, and that no payments are made until then. we will be conducting comprehensive audits by the directorates-general in january covering the whole period from 2007 to the end of 2013 and from 2014 to august 2018 and will then provide you with a comprehensive progress report and an overall assessment. we have handed over my letter to the prime minister at the end of november, to mrs gräßle and mrs ayala sender, and we are also prepared to forward it to all the other full and deputy members of the committee on budgetary control, if they so wish, in the context of the confidentiality agreed. we would like to draw your attention to the confidentiality of the information that has been provided. what i could also offer you is to also give you our announcement to the services in prague that we will and how we will and when we will and to what extent we will carry out audits in the next few days.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am very grateful to you, commissioner, for all the texts you have sent us. i have not yet made the letter available to my colleagues because we were expecting a reply from the commission. therefore, the letter can of course be consulted afterwards under the agreed confidentiality conditions. this is a point on the agenda where we must make a statement. i would like to say that we in budgetary control are following developments in the czech republic with growing concern. we have been working on this conflict of interest since 2014 and have already tabled resolutions here on several occasions, including passages in the respective discharge reports. it's time for something to happen. i would like to thank you very much for taking up this matter and for the clear words you have used. we see that we have now received a payment to the companies of the former finance minister and prime minister. these payments increased from eur 42 million to eur 82 million. there is a saying in germany, a beautiful song: at the spring the boy sat. the minister of finance was the head of the audit authority for eu funds and has been shown to intervene in the work of these authorities. the prime minister now chairs the structural funds project board, and is thus once again at the source. in my member state, this would also be considered a criminal offence: it would be treason. the czech authorities must therefore really ensure that they do the job that we all, the whole of europe, expect them to do. i have a very good impression of the state of the czech authorities and also of the czech press. we have seen - commissioner, i told you - a rather dispirited european commission for three years. but we are now pleased that the latest amendment to the financial regulation is actually making a difference. and, madam president-in-office, it would be your task to take this debate forward in the council. i know it's a difficult file. but precisely because the credibility of the european union as a whole is at stake, you are called upon to do something. we welcome the study by the legal service and the letter from you, commissioner, to the czech prime minister. but we are also demanding action now. and the fact is that no more money will be given to agrofert as long as this structure continues, in which, firstly, equal opportunities are massively damaged, secondly, competition is eroded, thirdly, self-service is operated with the money of eu taxpayers and, fourthly, the suspicion of tax evasion and dishonesty that hangs over everything is not cleared up. i'm also talking about the tax-free kronen bonds from 2011 and 2012. what shocks me is the way we're being danced around on our noses. there have been many lies. i met the prime minister when he was finance minister and i believed him. and that was a mistake, because we stopped working for a very long time. but he's announced and delivered nothing of what he promised. and now, i fear, it will be the same again. i am disappointed in the alde group. mr verhofstadt is standing here and railing against hungary, and rightly so. but i would have expected mr verhofstadt to stand up here and call his friend, his czech friend, to order. we expect something to happen here not because of party politics but because it's a question of the hygiene of this house. (applause from the centre) we face the whole world with our index finger raised. the rule of law is important to us, and the rule of law is a nail-biter, especially in the czech republic. something has to happen here! i call for the resolution to be adopted tomorrow and i ask for a large majority.
mr president, it is good to see you commissioner oettinger facing our questions tonight, because the conflict of interest of prime minister babiš cannot be ignored any longer. mr babiš became minister of finance already in 2014 at the time when he already owned agrofert. agrofert is today the biggest receiver of eu subsidies in the czech republic and operates in several other eu countries. there are still some uncertainties about the relation of mr babiš towards the czech legislation on conflict of interest, so the reasons to adopt new european financial regulations are clear: to definitely avoid these types of conflict of interests. today, thanks to the czech pirate party, who was the first to notify the commission, there is no doubt that czech prime minister babiš and czech minister of agriculture toman are seriously violating the financial regulation. national authorities of member states are obliged to secure preparatory measures, audit and control of financial resources from the eu budget, but we can’t expect the authorities in the czech republic to be able to properly comply with such rules in a situation where both the prime minister and the agriculture minister have confirmed relations to companies drawing agricultural subsidies. this is why i call upon you to take swift and strict measures to control the flow of eu financial resources to the czech republic and to implement the necessary corrective measures to end this illegal conduct. such shameful conflict of interests of executive powers, who will actually participate in the european council this week, have to be solved urgently in order to avoid further damage to the czech republic and to its people, as well as to the european union. (applause)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if a member of the enf group defends mr babis by arguing that he is also a xenophobic populist, so he must be right against the eu, then i can put that aside and say with shakespeare: even if it is madness, it has method. if the czech communists hypocritically defend a billionaire in their country whose anti-european sentiment they share, when otherwise they can only go after big business, the same verdict applies. but what really shocks me is when i listen to my colleagues in the liberal group. a very esteemed colleague of mine in the liberal group said that we should turn to the real problems. if this isn't a real problem, then we've all got something wrong. and a colleague from the liberal group has just said that the czech republic is being damaged. are we really to believe this totalitarian nonsense that a ruler is identified with the whole country? is that liberal thinking? (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure under rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
blue-card answer. – it might have been more decent if you had started with that little propaganda speech in the first place, because what you said before really destroyed any credibility that you might have had – even in the eyes of your own voters, because you punted for a corrupt person and you laid your credibility on the table for that. (applause)
member of the commission. – mr president, first i want to personally thank the rapporteur and also the shadow rapporteurs for their work and for their really devoted support for this file. we see this file as very important for the future position of europe as a global and competitive space actor. let me just briefly say a few words on what the idea behind it was and why we decided to table this proposal. europe has definitely gained momentum in space. our space programmes, as we call them, ‘flagship’ ones – galileo, copernicus and egnos – are operational. they are on time and on budget. they offer really quality services to users with performances that really exceed expectations – ours and everyone’s. in the coming years, the european space sector will also have to deal with major challenges in relation, of course, with global evolutions on environmental, economic, security and geopolitical levels, and additionally there is a disruptive wave in the making. of course, it is especially coming from the us, and we also see the emergence of the new private space actors, new business models and new technologies in this field. this is what the space programme that the commission proposed is all about. climate change, digitalisation, data economy, security, safety of people and goods, competitiveness of the european space industry, strategic autonomy – that was mentioned before – and technological independence are all issues that are directly linked to the space programme that we are discussing here today. following that space strategy that we adopted together and that was endorsed by this parliament just two years ago, the eu space programme has the following objectives in order to address those key challenges that we are facing. the first very important one is to ensure the continuity of the existing space infrastructure and the services, and at the same time, the development of the new and enhanced ones. the second is to foster an evolution to ensure that our current programmes and projects are responding to the new needs – more precise positioning for connected cars, for example – but also fighting climate change and ensuring more security for europeans. these are all issues that we want to tackle with our space programmes. additionally, we want to promote the emergence of the european ‘new space’ approach. this is not about copy—pasting what is done in the us, but to invent a genuine european approach to maintain an innovative european space sector that is able to compete globally. the third point is to adapt to new realities. we must see the space sector as an enabler of our security. that is why we are proposing to launch two new components: space situational awareness (ssa), allowing to protect our satellites in orbit, and govsatcom, to allow secured communication by satellites. we also proposed an element to maintain the eu capacity to have autonomous access to space, relying on eu independent industry – again, it was mentioned by the rapporteur. for all these priorities, we proposed a budget of eur 16 billion for the next mff. this is, of course, an ambitious agenda, but one we think is necessary to make sure that europe remains the second space power globally. i’m happy that the commission’s proposal for the eu space programme has been equally supported by the committee on industry, research and energy (itre), but also by the associated committees: the committee on budgets (budg), the committee on agriculture and rural development (agri), the committee on transport and tourism (tran) and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi). i know that these committees have, in particular, raised some important elements to our discussion: for example, the importance of ensuring the adequate funding necessary to maintain state—of—the—art and innovative galileo and copernicus initiatives, and the importance for the european union to be ambitious on the new programmes, including ssa and govsatcom, as i mentioned. these programmes are really crucial to protect the key interests of the union, and the commission noted with great interest the remarks from the committees on the need to ensure sufficient budgets for them. the impact of the space programme on the whole european economy, in particular for small and medium—sized enterprises, but also for mid—caps, and the need to better support space startups, the importance of maintaining an autonomous access to space and the impact of the european space initiatives on the other policy areas – that was also mentioned before – agriculture, transport, of course, environment, climate monitoring, security and defence. i cannot agree more with those comments, so i’m looking forward to this important discussion and to your remarks.
i am speaking on behalf of the ppe group. the commission is not i would like to thank commissioner bieńkowska, and in particular mr salini, for putting this dossier, which was presented as a proposal by the european commission to launch an integrated space programme, into practice. i think it's absolutely necessary that we continue the existing activities with copernicus. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the data, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i'm telling you, this space program is critical infrastructure, and we can no longer rely on the comrades across the atlantic that we used to rely on. i think that cooperation with russia and china is also possible, but europe needs its own space programme in the digital age. we need not put our light under the bushel with galileo. we have our own space station, a spaceport with launch vehicles, the 20th. the satellite will be in orbit in 2020 and galileo is operational and can provide data particularly for maritime safety. we have often discussed this in the committee on transport: is it necessary to use pilots, or can we guarantee the safety of shipping, say in the strait of gibraltar, say in the bosphorus, say in the mediterranean as a whole or in the baltic sea at the kadet channel, also with such a programme? it is possible. pilot programmes are already under way in this area, and this is very important. i'm the vice chairman of the fisheries committee. we are discussing a control regulation which will have a vessel monitoring system, so to speak. it's only possible via the appropriate satellite systems we have. it is therefore clear and necessary that the european fisheries control agency in vigo should be able to record all the data that is necessary in this respect in order to have a real control. this is of course a matter of ship safety. in conclusion, i would like to make one more point: if we have our own gps system, which is even better than the american one, it should be built on a samsung android, so that every european citizen can also identify with his continent and with his own space programme.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 december 2018.
the next item is the debate on the report by angelika mlinar, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing the 'digital europe' programme for the period 2021-2027 (com ((2018) 0434 c8-0256/2018 2018/0227 cod)) (a8-0408/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 13 december 2018. written declarations (article 162) the following documents shall be submitted to the court of justice:
before i close the sitting here, because this is the last night sitting of this parliament in 2018, i would like to thank once again all the people who have worked here, who have worked in the background, and the interpreters for their excellent work. all these people are making sure that we can make good decisions. i hope that we will reach good decisions tomorrow, and i will conclude the sitting with that. (the sitting was closed at 10.46 p.m.)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. this debate shows once again that some speakers are trying to undermine the sovereignty of the eu member states with humanitarian aspects. and part of sovereignty is securing the borders. it is not a new insight that a large number of migrants are so-called economic migrants, that is, they are not persecuted politically, but they are looking for a better world. this is permissible, but eu countries cannot accept unlimited and even uncontrolled immigration. we can see the problems that this is causing at the moment. and i must also say to you, mrs guzmán of the gue: you have tried here in what i consider to be a shameless way to immediately spread a halo over all migrants, following the motto: if someone says yes, crimes also originate from these, this cannot be. it is clear that not every migrant is a criminal. whoever says that is stupid. but conversely, migrants also, of course, cause crime, and that is why we must control the borders.
a writer. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a great help to us. i would like to make three points. the first is: we stand in solidarity, without if and but, with all the people in iran who are demonstrating against social and economic injustices, against corruption and mismanagement because their living conditions have become unbearable with the truck drivers who are not getting paid, with the environmental activists who are fighting against climate damage. and i say no one should be arrested for demonstrating, and nowhere else. to be thrown in jail and persecuted just for protesting is unacceptable. the second is: we demand the immediate release of nasrin sotoudeh and her husband nasrin sotoudeh, a courageous lawyer, it must be said, who has remained in iran, representing the women who are fighting for their freedom. it is unbelievable to me that a sakharov prize winner is thrown in jail and then we are expected to support the iranians. but we also support those women who are now in prison just because they decided against wearing a headscarf. man is born free and should remain so, and should be free to decide for himself. that's the minimum we can ask for. and the third is, yes, we stand behind the jcpoa because we don't want a nuclear arms race anywhere, and because it's about time we finally got rid of the patronage of an irresponsible us president who acts like emperor nero. europe needs an independent policy towards the middle east. it is time to do so now, and it also calls for a revolt against the us sanctions.
i would like to thank mr lamberts. i think everyone's drawing their own conclusions. you can send packages like that back.
the next item on the agenda is the vote. (the results of the vote and other details of the vote: see minutes)
mr president, we have carefully assessed the draft negotiation position of the parliament and listened to the statement of the econ chair before, however we are convinced that the draft negotiation position of the parliament is not good enough. it is not enough to get the risks in the balance sheets of european banks under control, and it is not enough to prevent indebted consumers and small enterprises from being abused by unregulated credit purchases. the stock of non-performing loans is bigger today than it was before the last financial crisis. nevertheless, the new rules for the provisioning of bad loans will only apply to newly issued loans, and only for this partial solution the european parliament’s position is weaker than of the council and weaker than of the european commission. but tough minimum requirements for credit provisioning for non-performing loans are necessary so that taxpayers do not have to rescue struggling banks again in the next economic downturn. lastly, those who now demand weaker rules on these loans are risking that the banking union cannot be completed. even worse, there are no binding rules so far for the credit purchases, and this means that blackrock, blackstone and many other credit purchases can continue driving people who are indebted from their homes, and this is why we think this negotiation position is not good enough and we ask colleagues to send the committee back to the drawing desk in order to have strong rules on consumer protection and strong rules on our banks. (applause)
i am not going to go into detail. before the last vote this year, allow me to thank the services, the staff, the servants, all your staff and all the staff of the house. (applause from the centre) when things go high next year, please remember this week's events, including oleh senzow. in the election campaign, too, you only deserve the respect you owe others. (applause from the centre) the vote will be taken at the end of the debate.
i should like to begin by informing you that we are starting with the explanations of vote which could not be dealt with yesterday after the voting session from 12.00 to 14.30 because of the length of the votes. the explanations of vote on the items voted on yesterday at the voting session from 5 to 6 p.m. will follow. we shall then proceed with the explanations of vote on the items voted on today. i must inform you that we have received many requests for an oral explanation of vote. we can only continue the sitting until 2.45 p.m. at the latest, so that the services can make preparations for the resumption of the sitting at 3.00 p.m. the remaining explanations of vote may be submitted in writing. (voting time on wednesday 12 december 2018)
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. the eu-japan free trade agreement is not perfect. the amendments tabled by my group have highlighted areas where we would like to see improvements. but in my view, the fact that we didn't get away with it is not a sufficient basis for a rejection. i cannot, for reasons of time, mention the positive provisions which i find good in the agreement. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and whether it is not in a position to do so. that's why i was considering a yes vote. in the end, i abstained out of loyalty to my group, which voted against the motion by a majority.
a writer. the commission has already made a number of proposals. there are only a few of us. that 's clear . it's almost christmas, and most of them are already gone. before christmas, you want to be concerned with beautiful things and not with illnesses, that's clear. we all want a stable health. it is also possible to think that the way we are doing medical research in europe is almost all good. the point is, there are diseases that are so rare that they're not all that good. and we want to improve that. rare diseases are generally defined as those affecting fewer than 2 000 people. this is actually still a relatively large number of people in the european union who may have rare diseases. in total, it is said that there are between 6 000 and 8 000 rare diseases in the european union, but in total, 30 million out of 500 million people are affected by them - a considerable number. and you have to think, what does this mean for these people? and what that means for these people is that when they get the diagnosis -- which hopefully is the right diagnosis, because you can be uncertain about the diagnosis of rare diseases -- there are big question marks, big uncertainties, not just from the medical community, but from the family, of course. usually, when a person gets sick, you think you have a cure. you can take this, and everything will be fine. as i said before, it's not exactly like that in this case. i'm getting very personal here. i can say this from my own distress. my father died early from a rare disease, and my brother died very early from a rare disease when he was a child. in both cases, the research was too late, and there was no way to help them. my father, who was a well-known politician -- and i say this very personally -- was the reason why we, as a family, said, "we don't want to facilitate research, we don't want to show it off". maybe it was wrong, maybe it was selfish, but it was our decision. my own son was diagnosed with a disease six years ago that hadn't even been diagnosed yet. it was the first case in the world, and it's still being studied today. and i know, of course, that the research is helping him, because he says that he knows that the research on his disease, which was so unique, has helped so many people. that's good, of course. but the thing is, it couldn't help himself. not only is there no proper diagnosis, there's no known treatment. it's trial and error, and you have to do it from the heart. i've seen it myself, and i've seen it with my son, many times, how trial and error can lead to success and save lives, but of course it can't help in the long run. and those are things that we want to improve. so it's very important that we enable research and that we also look at how we can secure funding, how we can improve the networks that already exist to create better futures for the people that are affected. it 's just like this: the medical profession is already very advanced, but in some ways it is still in its infancy, because new cases can arise, especially from tropical diseases. my son was infected with a tropical virus that has not been discovered to this day, although many are trying to figure out what it was. in this context, it is very important for us to see what can be done to enable people everywhere in the eu to have access to treatment, good diagnosis and also appropriate medicines. we have prepared a number of questions to this effect, which i shall now read out. the first question to the commission: what measures has the commission taken so far to ensure accurate and early diagnosis of rare diseases and access to affordable medicines needed for their treatment throughout the eu? how does the commission support research on rare diseases and the development of new or better early detection methods, and how does it intend to promote these efforts and achieve measurable improvements in outcomes for patients with rare diseases in all eu member states? secondly, how does the commission intend to ensure access to information, medicines and medical treatment for patients with rare diseases throughout the eu? given that access to early and accurate diagnosis can have a significant impact on the prognosis and quality of life of patients, how is the commission promoting the improvement of coordination and learning processes in all member states? thirdly, what plans does the commission have to ensure the continuing funding of patient organisations that support the european reference networks for rare diseases, for example through the joint european programme for rare diseases?
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. thank you very much, commissioner andriukaitis, for being here today. the committee on agriculture has put this question because there is a major problem here. i do not want to go into the problems now; they have been very clearly described by my colleagues. but i have found that wild boars are a big threat, and i have just looked at the numbers of shootings in germany: in 2007, 287,000 wild boars were shot, in 2017 590,000 were shot by hunters. here, commissioner, you might want to think about whether you are not giving a launch bonus so that we can fight back even more. i would also like to take this short time to thank you, commissioner andriukaitis, for your interest in agriculture, and to wish you a merry christmas and a happy new year.
