rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. – mr president, let me catch up on the very good speech by mr turmes and the highly relevant question he asked. how can we ensure that member states deliver on their targets? this is crucial, as governance is the backbone of the energy union. unfortunately, our answer to that question is: we don’t know yet. my proposal, which was adopted by the committee on agriculture and rural development, was to change the commission’s recommendations into requirements when member states fail to meet their targets. unfortunately, this proposal was not adopted by the lead committee, and i must say i regret that. it should have been the answer to mr turmes’ highly relevant question.
mr president, i would like to thank you. then another meeting was held, another declaration was signed, another speech was made, and not least, more steps were taken towards a united states of europe. but, frankly, you talk about taking the concerns of the citizens seriously, but you forget to listen to them. millions of citizens are unemployed or living under dire conditions, with poor pay and poor working conditions. we all feel the effects of the deterioration in welfare which comes from economic cuts. if we are to take citizens seriously, we must dare to break with the eu's single market. this requires that we dare to break with the eu's austerity policy. i would therefore like to invite you to stick your head out of the eu's glass bubble, to talk to the citizens, to listen to them and to ask them whether they really want a united states of europe or whether they want to take back power in their own hands.
mr president, i would like to thank bernd lange for raising this very important issue and also to thank the commissioner for the answer. saying that trade is part of our policy and the values that we have in europe on sustainability, human rights, labour rights and the environment are fundamental to us. i will have to disagree with my colleagues from the ppe who spoke earlier. this is a very important debate and what we have neglected in the past is that the trade-related rules we have introduced haven’t respected the fundamental rights of workers or the environment. we have put a lot of effort into ensuring the rights of investors. we have discussed investor- state disputes and mechanisms for dispute settlement, but what about the right of workers to organise themselves for collective bargaining? these rights are even denied by european companies in countries where we trade, so we need to have not only a value-based trade order, but also a value- and rule—based trade order; and with rules that can be enforced by sanctions if they are neglected by our partners. therefore, it is important to link trade with sustainability and, i would say, with behaviour on how the rules work in globalisation. the commission produced a very good paper on harnessing globalisation last year and one of its aims was to empower the eu to harness globalisation to benefit people. what we are unfortunately seeing today are rising inequalities and, if we want to fight that, we need a rule—based trade order in which rules on workers, the environment and human rights are at the core. these rules must be implemented. if not, then we should punish our partners.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i wish to thank taoiseach varadkar for an excellent speech, for his commitment to europe and for his commitment to cooperation. the european union is the foundation of our prosperity, our security in europe. ireland and my own country, denmark, share a similar history. we joined the european community at the same time – 1 january 1973 – 45 years ago. both of our countries have seen tremendous changes. we have benefited from the single market, from the wealth of trade agreements with third countries, and from eu funding and cooperation throughout its history. but for us as socialist and democrats, europe is much more than trade and profits. it is about solidarity. it is about the prosperity of our people. it is about protecting strong welfare states where no citizen is left behind. solidarity is the future of europe, and working together to help each other to overcome shared challenges in the 21st century. globalisation, climate change, the refugee crisis – all of these we have to face together. next year the united kingdom will leave the european union. (applause from certain quarters)this, of course, will have a special impact on ireland and the people of ireland. let me be absolutely clear: the european parliament will stand firm on upholding the good friday agreement and securing peace, cooperation and prosperity throughout the emerald isle. it is very important. (applause)we also expect solidarity from the irish government – and i must take the opportunity this debate offers to express this – and the same commitment to solidarity, fairness and cooperation on other issues. so when we build a single market in europe, with the free flow of capital, goods, services and people, it is also important that we fight tax evasion and avoidance, protect our tax bases, our welfare states, our people, against the tax evasion we are seeing. what we have seen in europe – and i have also to give the example of ireland – when apple only pays eur 50 per eur 1 million it earns on its profits, is a disgrace. it is not acceptable. we need to change that behaviour. (applause)we need to stop the never—ending race to the bottom on corporate taxation. we need to protect our welfare state. we need a common rule book in europe on corporate taxation, and that is also why i am asking you, prime minister, to fight for the common consolidated corporate tax base, creating a tax system in the 21st century that is fair, that serves our states, that serves our citizens. i also want to say we share a lot of challenges. we also need to build a europe, as you said, mr varadkar, that will protect the citizens of europe, the workers. good decent work and good salaries are the basis of our societies, and therefore also the social europe you mentioned is part of that agenda and we need to see action in that field as well. we also need to ensure, when we do trade liberalisation and make trade agreements, that these trade agreements also follow our values, our rules on sustainable development, protecting the environment, protecting labour rights, protecting human rights, and ensuring that big corporations pay their fair taxes. this is equally important. in building a europe of the 21st century we are, as you said, much stronger together than apart. that is true. and you said the single market is not just for all of our citizens if we do not also protect our citizens against, for example, big corporations, against people that take advantage of a single market to undermine our society. that is very important. so, mr prime minister, i have to commend you for standing up for europe, but i think we also need to talk about what type of fair europe we can create for the future. thank you so much for this and i look forward to working with you and all others who want to change europe for the better of the people. (applause)
mr president, i would like to thank you. you guys! fake news was not invented in russia, and the debate about fake news is much wider than russia. there is no doubt that russia has helped to open the latest and most important round of the debate and that russia will also be the place where this debate ends somewhere. but in the liberal group we have made some efforts to come up with a broad plan with a lot of suggestions on how to actually do something about it. a multi-pronged plan. we must promote data protection and transparency, including the restriction of the misuse of personal data - an extremely important area! we need to focus on a much better education of the young people so that they are able to navigate the web in a proper way. we need to have an online media responsibility. we must ensure that the players on the market introduce some form of self-regulation. we must ensure that there are support mechanisms for proper journalism, for cross-border journalism. finally, we must of course make sure - as several colleagues have already said - that we do not allow fake news from russia, among other countries, to be published. we can do this by also supporting - as several colleagues have pointed out - the east stratcom task force which we have already set up in the union. we are also in favour of strengthening it. with these points we should be able to address this problem in a sensible way.
mr president, next year the citizens of europe will elect a new european parliament. this raises an uncomfortable question: how many seats will russia get? let us not kid ourselves; russian meddling in democratic elections is no longer the exception – it is becoming the norm. from the us presidential election to brexit, the hands of kremlin have been busily dancing along keyboards, churning out disinformation – the real fake news and propaganda – the full extent of which is yet to be uncovered and the consequences yet to be fully understood. in the eu alone, we know for a fact that russia has conducted propaganda and misinformation campaigns in several countries: latvia, estonia, lithuania, denmark, sweden, finland, the uk, france, netherlands, spain, germany, hungary, bulgaria, italy and so on. all of these eu member states have been – and continue to be – the target of russian misinformation and propaganda campaigns. our best defence is to stand firm on european values, principles and ideals: democracy, freedom of the press, speaking the truth to power. the eeas and this east stratcom team is doing a tremendous job, as several have noted. they are the front line, defending democracy and the free press, but they are caught in an uneven fight and that is why i am calling for a marked strengthening of east stratcom and an eu action plan for countering russian meddling in the 2019 european election. and so i return to my original question: “how many seats will russia win in the european parliament?” let’s make sure they win no seats.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. madam president, this is a great day indeed! it is after all four years since the commission, and commissioner timmermans in particular, and i were really at each other's throats. the commissioner was sure that plastics were 'small things' and the commission should be picky about 'small things'. now we are here, and the commission has recognised that plastic pollution is "big things". they've also come up with something that's reasonably "big". i am going to have to praise timmermans, and i do so gladly whenever he gives me the opportunity. thank you so much! but there are a few things, of course! but first, let me take the rose further: it is good that there is a coherent description of the problem, so that we have both health, climate, nature, jobs and resource efficiency, and that the need for competitive advantages is mentioned. i also think that we must have industry fully involved, as has been mentioned by several people, including peter liese. i support the idea of providing progressive support for industry. we need mid-term evaluations to see if we're actually getting anywhere. i would also like to share the regret that there are no concrete proposals. but now that i have been so happy, i will content myself with being happy that we have been promised that the proposals will be submitted in may. i hope that the main parts of them will be completed so that we can meet our citizens with proof that we are indeed taking their concerns seriously. i think the best thing we can do to strengthen the union in this matter is to do something really good here. i have one more little thing: i know that the commission has a problem with endocrine disruptors. i don't know if they've been disturbed in their own minds since we can't get them to come. we must therefore ensure that the hormone-disrupting substances are also removed from plastic if it is to be recycled and recovered. but let me say thank you very much for finally getting an oxo ban. it must be banned as soon as possible. it's a disaster that this substance is in our environment.
i have to say, madam president, it is very welcome that we now have a plastics strategy for the eu. it contains a lot of good intentions and goals. plastics need to be better regulated, and waste in particular is a huge problem that we are now taking responsibility for. the 2030 targets with their high demands for reuse and recycling are therefore absolutely right. the eu is becoming a world leader and the strategy is both needed, necessary and good. so thank you for that! but i must also say to the commission that you are a bit disappointed here by not acting more quickly! i think you should have presented three or four bills with the strategy. you know very well that we in the european legislative machinery do not work very fast, so it will take several years before the legislation is in place. so promise us that you'll meet the deadlines, and promise us that you'll come up with something as soon as possible. we have to act now!
mr president, i would like to thank you. it's a great day! i have been with you for all the ten years we have been fighting for this cause and i can assure you that parliament would have been very good at supporting it. the problem has not been just the institutions, it has been a very intense lobbying by the rights holders. they've also lobbied my government, and it's been really embarrassing to see how big countries have tried to hide behind pretty little denmark, which was just run over by the copyright holders. but let me warn you against one thing: recital 14. it allows for the establishment of national compensation schemes. make sure that doesn't happen! it is a hole in this system and we have never yet seen rights holders able to demonstrate that they have suffered more than minimal loss, as stated in recital 14. now, fight at home to prevent this loophole! it could be devastating to the whole thing, and that's the only weakness in what we're facing right now, and part of our compromise. i hope very much that you will do your best at home.
i have to say, madam president, i thank mr danti for having produced a very good and balanced report. the eu's single market, with free movement of goods and people, is undoubtedly a good thing. it is valuable and it has created growth and development. this is also true of the services sector, where consumers and businesses are greatly benefitting from the fact that we have removed a number of unnecessary barriers. but when it comes to setting requirements for, for example, the qualifications people must have to do a job, we social democrats believe that the considerations of the total free market should not be paramount. we believe that the single market works best when we regulate market forces. this also applies to the professions regulated by law. we social democrats do not want regulation for the sake of regulation, restrictions for the sake of restrictions. we believe it is entirely appropriate that the interests of the patient in the hospital, the consumer in everyday life and our collective nature should be allowed to take precedence. on the other hand, we wholeheartedly support the idea that when regulations are made, also in the member states, there must be full transparency. it must be clear to everyone what our demands are to each other. we therefore also support the need to draw up national action plans. it is, however, absolutely essential for us social democrats that those who encounter regulation in their daily lives should also be involved in the work. this is particularly true of trade union organizations. i would like to thank mr danti very much for ensuring that these very considerations are included in the report so that we can achieve balance and have a good and well-functioning internal market.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as we can hear here tonight, confidence in the european car industry is at a very, very low level and quite justified. dieselgate with cheating, monkey tests with exhaust gases and manipulation of test results. it's just not working! we have to do something! and yes, new legislation is on the way to allow member states to do better controls, but it will take more than two years for that legislation to be in place. mrs bienkowska, it is very good to hear that you want the same thing as us, namely that action should be taken, but then look at the eu legislation and see if there are any tools we can use to punish the car industry in europe. this is not good! we must have examined whether it complies with the competition rules and we must have set up some new ethical rules for our car industry. the losers in this are the consumers and our environment, and that is not possible! we need to rebuild trust, and the only way we can do that is if we show the auto industry that we're not gonna get away with this.
madam president, mr vice-president, as you said vat fraud costs eu member states more than eur 50 billion in lost revenue each year and now, i think, finally we are taking this seriously. we have popped the hood of europe's ailing vat system and, let's be honest, it's a mess as must now be painfully obvious to anyone who has worked seriously with the issue of tax, vat fraud and avoidance and evasion. national laws, schemes and regulations are not a deterrent to these abusers. on the contrary, they are enablers of them. the more rules and the more exemptions, the easier it becomes to find loopholes. in the eu we still maintain no less than 28 different national vat regimes, all with different rates and exemptions. i'm happy to say that we the fair tax package proposed by the commission we are finally taking action to plug the gaps of europe's leaking coin coffers, to deny those who would cheat and swindle their way out of their fair contribution to society and, at the same time, making life just a little bit easier for the vast majority of companies who pay their fair taxes and their fair vat. finally, we will set up a system that returns control over individual vat rates to member states’ own discretion by doing so in a way that will not distort competition and that will not allow for a race to the bottom. i look forward to our continuing work on these important files and to ensure a vat system that is fit for the 21st century.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you for finally bringing us this debate on palestine, which is good, but there is a mighty elephant in the room that is not being mentioned: israel's total disregard for its obligations under international law to pay the cost of its occupation. israel and the occupying power do not pay a single cent to unrwa. furthermore, the attacks on unrwa are shocking. the thousands of dedicated employees will remain at their posts while others are evacuated. dozens of them have been killed. they should be honoured and thanked for the outstanding work they are doing for the palestinian refugees in lebanon, jordan, syria, the west bank and especially gaza, who have suffered under the israeli siege for 10 years now. the sudden breach of the united states of its obligations is shocking, and so, as i said, is the failure of the gulf states. so, thank you to the eu for making an effort to ensure that unrwa can continue its impressive work. finally, a question to mrs mogherini: where is the clear protest against israel's destruction of the eu-funded school in abu nawar in area e1? where is the claim for compensation from israel? we still need to hear a clear message here.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it often happens that when we have important votes in this house we are bombarded with e-mails and letters from citizens and with all kinds of expressions of concern from citizens about the environment or the economy or whatever it may be. but on this particular issue - the question of transnational lists - there has been remarkable silence. there are not even, let us say, many citizens who have found it worth the trouble of coming into this chamber to follow this exciting debate. the desire of the citizens, of civil society, is hardly overwhelming. i must therefore say that the argument put forward by some in this house that it should be a requirement of the europeans to have the transnational lists is rather bizarre! the transnational lists are fundamentally european and undemocratic: they are not european because europe is our common member state, where we have much in common and something in common that sets us apart. but where the gathering is so much more! where we know each other, where we speak the same language. where we may disagree! but where we have the conditions to be together to make difficult decisions. and it is undemocratic, partly because it will lead to an a and a b membership in this parliamentary chamber, because the members who are to be elected on transnational lists will not have a member state, a national parliament, to answer to, and partly because it confronts the whole myth, narrative and identity that europe is. i therefore hope, in the name of europe, that this proposal will be rejected.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, first of all i would like to thank the social democrats for putting this very important matter on the agenda. there is no doubt that we agree with much of what has been said here today. there are big, serious problems. there's a lot of social uncertainty. there's a lot of unemployment. in addition, far too many citizens today are concerned about their own future and that of their children. but would it not be wonderful if we in the european parliament could send a positive signal that this is moving forward? or at least that we are actually taking the concerns of the citizens seriously? that they're being heard? i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. if we are to face the people, we must be honest. the problems have become stronger and have become bigger because of the eu's internal market and because of the economic austerity policy imposed by the fiscal compact. if we are to tackle the growing inequality, it will also require a break with the eu we see today. this requires a break with the economic policy of the fiscal pact. if you social democrats are going to help us make that break, we would welcome it very much. it's very much needed.
madam president, i would like to thank the council and the commissioner for their response. i think this debate on rising inequality and the consequences of it is core to what we should do, as politicians, to fight these consequences, to ensure that we have policies that will change this behaviour and ensure that, instead of inequality, we have quality spread out through our societies. it has been said many times that eight men now own the same as half of the world’s population. it is a disgrace and, also, if you look at the years 2008 to 2016, we spent eur 653 billion to save the banks in europe, but how much effort do we spend to save young people and the people who are suffering the inequalities that are on the rise. it is economic inequality and inequality in health. it is in education and all aspects of society. i have to say to my good colleague, mr kamall, that fighting inequality is more than charity. actually where we have well—functioning welfare states in europe, that is the biggest equality machine we can create on this planet. it is proven. come to the nordic countries and you see that it works – and listen. what the eu can do is important. the commissioner alluded to it. we need a strong social pillar. we need to ensure that we support our member states so they can fight inequality and create opportunity for all of us. we need a strong social contract because our social contract is jeopardised in our societies today, with severe consequences for democracy and for extremism. so we need to rebuild our social contract and i think we also need a social contract that will ensure that the big multinational corporations and the rich individuals pay their fair tax. it is too easy for them to avoid paying their fair tax and it is undermining our welfare state and undermining the fight against inequality. so, friends, we believe in a european dream and a european dream is that all people, regardless of their background, have the chance to have a good life, good education and good work. (applause)
i have to say, madam president, i too think this is an important debate. i have also learned about both banana flies and health, and if it is really true that an hour's shift twice a year is causing major health problems, then i think we should start a major campaign to stop all travel from east to west and vice versa. then it's much, much more dangerous than people have discovered! then people should be lying sick around us! this house should be full of sick people, since many change their clocks twice a week! no, i love the summertime. i like the long, bright nights, where those who want to work can work longer, where you can have fun, where you can be out. it's not just in denmark in denmark it's absolutely wonderful also in holland i've experienced it. well, in norway too, although the sun hardly sets any further north. i have experienced it myself in strasbourg. the bright summer nights, the warm summer nights are wonderful, and i think that you who just think it can be free to abolish, to take these wonderful nights from people, you don't know what you're doing. let us not, however, preserve our delightful ... (the president interrupted)
for the ecr group. madam president, today's debate once again shows quite accurately that the eu was on the wrong side during the so-called arab spring. for too long we have been blindly accepting cooperation with forces such as the muslim brotherhood. the current egyptian regime is not without its faults, but it is completely out of proportion to spend so much time debating egypt, when you see how much silence descended on european capitals during the very recent riots in iran and what was the response that ultimately came from the eu to that situation. so i think that the people who are very busy today talking about the death penalty should spend as much energy talking about iran, china, the united states, but this is not a debate we have here every two or three months. so perhaps people should try to put this in perspective and recognize the egyptian fight against terrorism, which we share with them and which is a concern that we have both here in the eu and in egypt.
mr president the latest agenda and informal summit are important stepping stones towards a better and more inclusive europe. the open and frank exchange of ideas on the future of europe is how democracy works on a truly european scale. not all ideas are good ideas, and only a fraction will become reality. personally, i do not believe in the idea of a transnational list, but i think it’s important that we had the debate and found a clear majority, both in parliament and in council, of the same opinion. on the budget, it’s clear that it’s not set in stone. we need to adopt the budget so it represents the real needs and concerns of our citizens. we wholeheartedly support additional eu spending to stop illegal migration, trafficking and to counter human smugglers and criminal networks who prey on those who are already most vulnerable. but at the same time europe cannot and will not isolate itself from the world. we need to step up our engagement with and in africa. the mff should be a cornerstone in a new marshall plan for africa, so we can help those who are most vulnerable more, help them sooner and help them where they are.
madam president, after delaying the adoption of an eu blacklist for more than a year, it only took the council 49 days to remove half of the countries on the list. panama and seven other countries were removed from the list, based on secret letters of intent and closed discussions in the council’s working group. as a co—rapporteur of the committee of inquiry on the panama papers, i find this decision deeply problematic. what is truly indefensible is that the citizens of europe, the parliament and the commission have been kept entirely in the dark during the process. now, finally, we have a council representative to answer our questions. i have three simple questions: what concrete guarantees did council ministers obtain from panama and the seven other countries removed from the list? secondly, what sanctions have the council of ministers prepared, in case they do not fulfil these guarantees? finally, when will the council abide by the recent conclusion by the european ombudsman that the current lack of transparency and access to documents constitutes a clear democratic deficiency and publish documents and minutes from these closed and secret working groups? we need transparency and we need it now. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for this very important question. yes, i do agree that this is a very problematic case. we have a clear suspicion that the country is the united kingdom, and i want to say that this illustrates the problem of the lack of transparency. we need transparency on the council side, in the code of conduct group for business taxation, in the way they deal with this issue on tax havens and tax transparency. it is the only way to be accountable to the citizens and to parliament, and i think it is needed very much. thank you for this question. i agree very much with the question asked.
i have to say, madam president, it is good that the european parliament, with the report we are considering today and with the setting up of a committee on counter-terrorism, is beginning to take the threat of and the fight against terrorism seriously. for too many years the european parliament has been the bottleneck for effective anti-terrorism legislation. we can only look at the whole process of getting european pnr rules adopted. that is why i welcome this report and the work of the rapporteur. i am sorry, however, that in the afet vote we voted down a number of ecr proposals which could have made the report even more robust and even more effective in preventing the financing of terrorism. in particular, the state sponsorship of terrorism, which we see from certain countries in the middle east, has unfortunately not been given the role in the report that we in the ecr group would have liked to see. i therefore hope that we can tackle the challenges posed by state-sponsored terrorism more effectively in the context of our recommendations from the committee on terrorism.
i have to say, madam president, in the center of copenhagen, large concrete blocks are everywhere, and in most other major european cities the same sight is seen. they don't add to the city's image, but they're there for a reason: to protect us from terror, to stop those who would do us harm! just as we put physical stop-cuts on terrorism in our cities, we also need to put regulatory stop-cuts on those who fund terrorism. unfortunately, too many banks put profit before principle. they don't keep track of who's transferring money to whom, and which pockets the money ends up in. in addition, european banks are unwittingly helping to finance, to help finance terrorism and terrorist organisations through money laundering, fraud and fraud. money laundering fuels and enables terror, and both are best fed in the dark. it is therefore high time that we hit hard at the money laundering banks that do not take their responsibilities seriously. thank you for a good report and for the important decision we are taking here in parliament.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is a matter of blindness, deafness and dumbness to believe commissioner oettinger's assurances that this appointment was made in accordance with the letter and spirit of the rules. that is why i feel sorry for the commissioner today. i regret that president juncker has chosen to send a goon to explain this appointment rather than to appear in person and explain to parliament why it is absolutely necessary to insist on discrediting the highest level of officials in the commission with political appointments. this is something that will harm the commission not only today, when we are discussing this appointment, but also in the years to come. if the european citizens do not fundamentally believe that the senior officials of the commission have been appointed because of their qualities as neutral officials, as guardians of the treaty and as those who are to convey in a neutral way the political visions of parliament and the council, then the whole idea of a democratic union suffers and therefore it is a pity that jean-claude juncker will not come here today and stand for his appointment.
mr president, i would like to thank you. year after year, month after month, we see the terrible civil war in syria continue. and the simple conclusion is that we in europe and the united states were wrong not to decide not to intervene seriously until the situation was completely wrong. unfortunately, we in europe could say that for many, many years before that we had been very much behind the americans whenever they had tried to intervene in relation to humanitarian disasters, and now we are faced with the result: the result where iran, turkey and russia have been allowed in as key players in the middle east, the result where we see a civil war that just goes on and on with no realistic end in sight. so there is only one thing left to hope for, namely that the failed policy that obama and the eu have been pursuing towards syria must stop and that we begin to realise that only if we take the situation seriously, only if we intervene properly, can the situation in syria be brought to an end and the suffering of the civilian population be stopped.
mr president, we all know that the post-world war order of free and fair rules-based trade is something we built together with the americans, and therefore we also know that what trump is doing right now is a major tactical and strategic mistake by unilaterally imposing tariffs that could disturb that rule-based order. that will be a long-term consequence if we enter into a trade war, so we should avoid that. we also have legitimate concerns about actors like china that are dumping steel on the global market, and we have to face them together – china and others – in the world trade organization. we agree upon that. secondly, we live in integrated economies, and we see that globalisation is changing the nature of work and of our industries rapidly, and i think that conversation – how to help workers and industries to transform – is an important discussion that we share with the americans, and we should have that discussion with them. bilateral tariffs will only damage workers and will only make it more painful on both sides of the atlantic, so let’s get to help the workers in a real way by discussing how they can be qualified and helped to get new jobs and live in a globalisation area where they are challenged.
madam president, it is high time to ensure that taxes are paid where profits are made, and the sad truth is that, a long time ago, we, as member states and nations, lost sovereignty around corporate taxation in the age of globalisation. what this proposal on a common consolidated corporate tax base is doing is actually taking a first big step to ensure that we can regain sovereignty around corporate taxation – ensure that big multinational corporations again start paying their fair share of taxes – and it is also creating much better and more equal competition between small and medium-sized enterprises and big corporations, thus ensuring growth and jobs in europe. it is important to note that what we have been seeing now and over the past decades is a race to the bottom on corporate taxation, raising inequalities between our societies and in our societies. with this common consolidated corporate tax base we are taking a step to eliminate that race to the bottom. so this is an important step we are taking in parliament and in the european union, and we should go global with it. this is the first step. we need to create a corporate tax system that fits the 21st century, and what we are doing in europe is actually not impeding nation-state sovereignty. it is a step to enhance sovereignty and also to ensure that everybody contributes with fair taxes – and that we should applaud!
for the ecr group. i would like to thank the president-in-office. free trade is important for all of us, for prosperity and for freedom. now we see the united states starting a spiral of tax cuts. today it is olives from spain, tomorrow it may be pork from denmark, and this is a threat to our growth and prosperity. that is why it is so important that we speak with great words and reason to one another. no one benefits from trade wars, especially not working people who are taken hostage. restricting trade is a socialist idea that has never worked. it's not american, it's selfish. we must now send a clear signal that we want free trade and dialogue with the united states as well. the united states should also know that we do not always buy products from the united states that are not environmentally friendly.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i would like to thank the president-in-office. i thank mrs sârbu and commissioner vella for a good report which contains reasonable answers. we've enjoyed working with you. i particularly need to stress that one of the serious shortcomings of the eu's environmental efforts is that our biodiversity has been so terribly damaged. it has become a big discussion in denmark, but i think in many countries the number of insects has fallen dramatically. and it's really violent! we know this from our car windows, which suddenly no longer need special washing because there are no insects! it's a big blow to the birds, but it's a lifetime blow! and biodiversity itself is at the heart of all of our lives. it's also of enormous value to the climate. i think we should give it special weight and ask the commission to take its responsibility as guardian of the treaty much more seriously and go after those countries which are failing to comply with the requirements imposed on both pesticides and the protection of habitats so that we have a chance of saving nature.
mr. chairman, please. the conflict in syria, now in its seventh year, shows very clearly that there are also moral consequences of a laissez-faire attitude, of non-intervention. it shows in the highest degree how we in europe, with our rhetoric about american activist foreign policy, are equally complicit in genocide by being passive and - if you look at it from a syrian perspective - showing indifference to the terrible events taking place in syria now in its seventh year. i think it is good that the international community, with the united states, france and the united kingdom as examples, has now drawn a red line on the use of chemical weapons. but let us face it, chemical attacks are only a small part of the many civilian casualties that occur in syria every day. if we really meant it, we would have put in a much better strategy where europe had supported the americans in an intervention in syria. we could then have stopped these human rights violations instead of just talking from a moral high ground and then, by the way, allowing the disaster to continue.
for the ecr group. madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work put into the report. it is extremely important that we look at how we can use our resources in the right way and in the most flexible way. the ecr group is therefore also pleased that we are given more flexibility with the proposals contained in this report. if we cannot vote for the overall result, it is primarily because we do not think we can propose increases in the areas of the eu budget before we have addressed the financing. as we do not believe that the eu budget needs to be higher as a result of brexit, we also believe that we have a responsibility to address how the funds are to be raised before we propose to use them. the second thing that bothers us in the ecr group is that the unilateral criticism that has been repeated in connection with the destruction in gaza and the west bank of demanding eu funds for buildings back from the israelis, without thinking that the palestinians have contributed to a very large extent to the destruction that has occurred, including by deliberately using soft civilian targets as launching pads and hiding places for terrorist attacks against israel. on the other hand, we welcome the criticism in the report of the funds allocated to turkey by the applicant countries. it is quite clear to the ecr group that we have to confront the rather uncritical approach to funds for turkey in previous years.
mr president, i would like to thank you. have we got the wrong president in the white house? at least we now know that the road to the oval office has been paved with fake news and the misuse of facebook data - and even that the brexit vote might have had a different outcome. it's just a horrible thought! there is only one year to go until the next elections to this parliament, and how do we ensure that this does not end up the same way here? if there is one thing that this scandal has taught us, it is the importance of common rules in the european union. how many of you think that small countries, including my own, denmark, alone and on their own, could get marc zuckerberg and facebook to speak? the new european data protection regime is a step in the right direction. the new european rules show that the best solutions to common problems are common. we are stronger together than we are alone - and we must continue to be stronger in the future to ensure that citizens and voters are truly protected online.
mr president, i would like to thank you. facebook is in many ways a great digital social network to keep in touch with family, friends and old colleagues. but facebook is also a giant company with a business model that challenges our society to that degree. when you don't pay with money to access facebook, it's because you're paying with a different currency. in the case of facebook, you are the product, and the currency is all your personal data. facebook has now become so big that it's not only a problem for our privacy, but also a huge challenge for our democracy. data is collected at a scale that even our preferences in a parliamentary election can be predicted. and if it can be predicted, it can be influenced. our society and our democracy are suffering from the way we do business. the eu should take action against the monopoly status and position that facebook has acquired, both to protect the personal data of its citizens but also to protect our democracy.
i have to say, madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. we have succeeded in getting a new anti-money laundering directive in place, and that is a very good thing. it is a step in the right direction against tax evasion and i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their enormous and hard work. that said, there are still problems with the deal. the strong interests of the member states have succeeded in driving parliament over the edge on some points, and this has made the agreement we have reached far from being as good as could have been hoped for. it just leaves too many loopholes. this means that the journalists who are doing a tremendous job of shedding light on tax evaders are still not being provided with the information that can help them in their important work. the rules on trust funds, such as those which have been used quite recently to hide large sums of money in, say, panama, are still far from strong enough. and let's not underestimate the size of that hole. but i'm satisfied that we've come as far as we have. it is an important step that we have secured public access to the register. but there is no doubt that there is still a great deal to be done. we are a long way from the goal if we are to stop tax evasion and money laundering.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i've been looking forward to this day so much. we can finally put an end to the dieselgate scandal, both legally and politically. and we do it the right way. for although we european social democrats would very much like to see even more ambitious legislation, we are, after all, at an important milestone today. the new legislation we are now getting will give us a much more robust system for both the approval and the control of cars on the european market - much better than what we have today. why is that even necessary? yes, dieselgate revealed that a number of car manufacturers deliberately cheated with diesel cars' emissions of the health-damaging nox gases. it was not only illegal, it was deadly! thousands of eu citizens have lost their lives because they did not comply with the rules we had in this area. this is unacceptable! it is a scandal that they cheated, but it is also a scandal that our system was not able to detect it - that we did not detect it ourselves. it was the americans who discovered our problem with dieselgate. but that's what we're going to fix with this bill. there will be far more and far better controls both before cars go on the market and when they are running. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and not only that, we've also learned that we have to check that we're doing it well enough. that is why we are also giving the european commission the power and the opportunity to carry out market surveillance itself. i think that is something very central, and i also think that it will be part of what will prevent a new dieselgate in the future. but that is not all: it is also important that we can sanction fraud in the future. with the massive fines we impose on cheating, we think it will have a deterrent effect. finally, we also allow ngos to help us to check the market. we know that it was american ngos that discovered the tram scam. we're creating a more transparent system with an online database, which means that there are also others who can help check. it's really important. i would also like to say that if it had not been for the european social democrats, i do not think we would have had a system as good as the one we are going to have. there were many in the council and in this parliament who were not as ambitious as we were. so i am very proud today, and i also think that the european citizens will be very happy with what we are doing.
the rapporteur is mr genscher, who has been appointed by the commission to the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. - madam president! competition policy is essential to the proper functioning of the internal market. but competition policy today is also a multifaceted field. for example, it is essential that all companies make an adequate and fair tax contribution to the common fund, and if someone cheats on the tax bill through cunning business structures or illegal state aid, well, then it creates unfair competition for everyone else. competition policy is also labour market policy, because bypassing the rules on posting or social dumping means that competition is no longer on equal terms, to the detriment of firms, workers and consumers. it is therefore also crucial for competition that the national competition authorities help to ensure the uniform enforcement of eu rules, and that is why we also say a big thank you to - and we are very pleased with - the new ecn+ network, which can help to increase the independence of the national competition authorities. and finally, mrs vestager, thank you for taking on the big tech companies. but remember also the large and mediumsized companies in europe. they must not be forgotten in the battle for the high-profile cases.
the commission. i am not sure that this is the case. when gandhi in his day launched his nonviolent resistance to the british, the colonial powers simply fired on them. many died. but gandhi went on. the violence of the british might have done so too, if it had not been for a vigilant press in england reporting back to the united states the military atrocities against the unarmed indians. protests arose in england, and the matter ended, as is well known, with the liberation of the indians. without the public's attention, the violence against the indians might have continued. we in the eu have a historical responsibility for the situation in palestine, and it is we who now have the responsibility and the duty to stop the dehumanization of the palestinians, who have wisely chosen the path of gandhi, even with hamas' support for non-violence. the joint motion for a resolution is not good! it is full of contradictions, even demonstrably false accusations as in paragraph 3, but it also contains important points, such as the condemnation of the killing and wounding of unarmed civilians. the demand is for an immediate and unconditional end to the blockade of gaza and the opening of all the crossings and other important things. that is why most of our group can vote in favour of it.
for the ecr group. mr president, the resolution we discussed yesterday is of course a compromise. but this is a compromise which we in the ecr group have chosen to live with. we are pleased that it has been emphasized several times in the resolution that hamas is a terrorist organization and that the gaza strip functions as a hub for international terrorism. we are also pleased that the resolution calls for the bodies of the two israelis held by hamas in the gaza strip to be returned so that the two dead can be given a dignified burial. that said, there is no doubt that the ecr group is firmly of the very clear view that terror must stop and that israel has a right to defend itself and its borders. until a political solution to the conflict is found, it must be maintained that israel has a sovereign right to defend its borders and to defend its territories both against the terrorist attacks coming from hamas and the gaza strip and also against overrunning in general.
madam chairman! we voted against this report because cohesion policy, which sounds very good - as something that can unite us all - in reality seems to be more of a word or a concept than it is a cover-up of reality. when we look at the disastrous infrastructure projects that have been carried out in southern european countries in particular, where one ghost airport is empty after another, where perhaps 20 or 30 planes a year take off, or the kilometres of motorways that the eu has financed where no cars are driving, or ports where no ferries are being added, bike lanes where no bikes are driving, etc., etc., it is very, very difficult to see whether cohesion policy is really about making the continent work, or whether it is really more a matter of using some fine words that are going to look like the roses that cover the seasons. we are deeply sceptical about this whole part of the eu budget and that is why we are voting against.
madam chairman! i think we have all been moved and affected by the images we have seen on television screens of children drowning and, of course, adults in the mediterranean. it is therefore completely incomprehensible to me how there can still be members of this parliament who cannot see that the only way to stop this is by closing and consistently guarding the european border. instead of helping people here in our part of the world and thereby encouraging people smugglers and inciting people to use people smugglers, we should help people in the north african countries. if the eu is really going to contribute anything to helping people who are fleeing, then it should be by ensuring that without crossing the mediterranean, without spending all the wealth on human smugglers, you can be helped, by building camps and cities and good civilized regions in perhaps north africa where people can live until they can return to their own countries. it's the mediterranean route that kills people. as long as it is possible to enter europe through that road, parliament has a responsibility here for what happens.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. madam president, first of all i would like to thank my colleagues. thank you for your cooperation. thank you to the rapporteurs for an inclusive cooperation. we've never been completely in agreement, or we've disagreed on a lot of things, but we've respected each other, we've listened to each other, and we've negotiated, so thank you for that. let me start by saying this clearly: does the new directive solve the problem of social dumping? no, i'm not going. does the new directive guarantee equal pay for equal work in the same workplace? no, it doesn't. we must be completely honest with the citizens. a labour market in which workers and employers negotiate collective agreements voluntarily on the one hand, and on the other hand a single market in which employers move workers around and use wages as a competitive element - the two things do not go together very well. it is therefore a question of whether we want to support the internal market or whether we want to support workers and solidarity and equality. the new directive is still based on the internal market and free movement, and therefore we are not going far enough. however, there are also good elements in the directive: we will remove some of the worst barriers from the old directive, we will secure better opportunities to create equal pay, we will secure better opportunities for the trade unions and for the member states to fight for equal conditions for all workers. the freedom of workers, the freedom of trade unions, i really hope they will take it up now, because there are so many consequences of social dumping.
i have to say, madam president, the hypocrisy of this matter, when it comes to the israel/palestine conflict, will not end. it is quite remarkable that the same parliament, without any conditions for a peace agreement, approved a palestinian state - an act that is at least as aggressive from the israeli point of view as the american embassy move from the point of view of others - and it did so on the condition that it would be accepted only from the israeli side. now we have the opposite situation, where the americans have made a decision that we think is right that we make ourselves the moral arbiters of. it is also linked to the situation with hamas, from which israel withdrew, and we are seeing the consequences even today. the consequences are that a terrorist organization has taken power. it exploits the local population, it carries out terrorist attacks against the state of israel, and yet there are many in this room who insist on doing its job by accepting that the violence it carries out is the victims' own fault. let me be clear, let me be clear: terrorism is the responsibility of the people who commit it. terrorism is never the victim's responsibility. that's all it is.
mr president, first of all i don’t understand the right wing of this chamber arguing that when the us is imposing tariffs on steel and aluminium on europe as a response to china, then we shouldn’t react. it’s okay to face china, who are actually violating the principles of wto and doing unfair practices, but why is the us imposing tariffs on europe? this is in violation of wto rules and also the multilateral trade order. so we should be very strict here. people are talking about retaliation; no, it is a reaction. we need to use and protect our own workers our own industries against unfair trade practices vis-à-vis china or the us, as is the case now with trump. secondly, i just want to say we live in an integrated economy. so it is little absurd in 2018 to talk about this as if it would resolve any problems. and thirdly, i’m very preoccupied with how to defend the rights of workers in a time of globalisation. so we should start a dialogue with the us on how to implement ilo conventions, how to ensure collective bargaining and how to ensure that the things we get from trade agreements also benefit the people. that’s a real discussion.
for the ecr group. the whole schengen project has lost the confidence of europeans to a great extent, and with good reason, because the schengen project has failed in all that is the essence of a border. it has failed in the fight against organised crime, it has failed in keeping uncontrolled migration out of europe, and it has failed in the fight against terrorism. the greatest tragedy in the history of the schengen system's failure has been that it has once again implemented a european prestige project without having the underlying structures in place. the european union has a duty to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the european union is able to take action to combat terrorism. so it is clear that we have to do two things: firstly, the external border must be much more robust, much more secure and much more impenetrable for people trying to get to europe. secondly, we must say that as long as there is no fundamental control of the external borders, of the external security of the union, it is the prerogative of each member state to maintain internal border control and to ensure that the citizens of our member states are as safe as possible. we are therefore still far from our goal in terms of schengen cooperation and internal border control must therefore be allowed to continue until it is achieved.
mr. chairman, please. iran has long played a dangerous game, using the threat of developing nuclear weapons to turn the world's attention away. it is about the terrorism they are committing against their own citizens, it is about the terrorism they are spreading in the region and throughout the world, and it is about the general instability throughout the middle east, which is largely rooted in iran. unfortunately, the iranians have also, to a far too great extent and for too long, led us to look the other way on human rights violations in iran, because the greater threat of a nuclear power in the world has been in the foreground, so that effective action against iranian human rights violations has been put in the background. it is this situation that brings us to our debate today, which in my view has a much too narrow focus, but which nevertheless still has a very central and important focus, namely the question of the persons with dual nationality who are imprisoned in absolutely appalling conditions in iranian prisons. i think it could have been extended to include all those iranian citizens who are being prosecuted every day because of their political beliefs or political attitudes or even their sexuality, but we have taken a good first step along the way. i hope that we in the european parliament will begin to focus more critically on iran and its role in the world and not just on the iranian nuclear deal.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. mr president, i thank the rapporteur, mr zoffoli, for an excellent report and a very good result. why is this a good result? i think most of us have tried to drive on the motorways of the european union, and we see one truck after another driving on the roads. there are simply so many trucks, and that's kind of good for our trade, but it's not very good for the climate if our trucks and other heavy vehicles continue to emit as much co2 as they do. about a quarter of all co2 from the transport sector comes from trucks and other heavy vehicles. we need to do something about that. the legislation we are now going to vote on is exactly a step in the right direction. it is the first legislation to help us monitor and report the co2 emissions of lorries and other heavy vehicles. it is essential if we are to see what this looks like and to create a competitive situation in the eu's internal market. we need those who make the trucks to make them more environmentally friendly, and one of the ways we can do that is by making sure we know how much they emit and how much fuel they use. we in the socialist group do not think that this is enough, but that we must go further. but this legislation is, after all, a step in the right direction, so we warmly welcome the fact that we now have legislation that allows us to do this. this is also the lesson of dieselgate: we know that more transparency is needed in this data. if we have that transparency in the data, then we also know that we can put pressure to create a development so that we can have some cleaner and better vehicles. we are also very pleased that the european commission has been given the tools to issue fines if producers are not given the information they are required to provide. again, because we know it's so important - this transparency in our data is a critical tool to ensure that we have a more climate-friendly transport sector. finally, it is also important to say thank you for the fact that we now have the opportunity to carry out road tests. we know that it is not enough to test our heavy vehicles in laboratories. we'll also have to test them on the roads so we know if they're complying with the rules we're given. so thank you very much to mr zoffoli for a really good result, and this is a step in the right direction to make the eu more environmentally friendly and to comply with the objectives of the paris agreement.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the nuclear deal with iran was problematic from the beginning. the problem is that the american president who signed it knew full well that it could not be ratified democratically in the united states senate. so we are now in exactly the same situation as we were in relation to the paris climate agreement, that it is the prerogative of the president in office at any given time to decide whether to abide by the agreement or leave it. on top of that, there is the very fundamental problem with the iran deal, which is that it does not take into account the many aspects of iranian problematic behaviour. we are talking about the development of ballistic missiles, about a situation in which iran is spreading terror both in the middle east and in europe. the agreement is therefore not good enough or thorough enough. so, of course, one can sit here, as many do, and lament that the americans have withdrawn from the agreement. we could also try to find a more constructive model where we actually -- together with the americans -- find a way to contain the damaging iranian influence, both in the region and in the rest of the world.
i think that everyone fundamentally thinks there's something positive about recycling and recycling. it's good for the environment, it's good for health, it's good for the way we design our societies. but as we hear from several of the speakers who have been here today, socialism is easily inserted into this. suddenly it's not about the environment and health and consumer protection anymore. so instead, it's about distributing the values between people. it's about creating a new tax system, a new way of democratizing our economy, as they call it. it has been experimented with in eastern europe throughout the ages. i must therefore say that i am very surprised that we cannot simply say: let us do something good for the environment, let us do something good for public health. all this talk about the eu collecting taxes from some places and some countries and distributing to other places and other countries and so on - that is not what anyone outside this house wants! that is why i am voting against this report.
i think that most people - at least i do - have a very difficult time understanding what is really happening in ukraine. that is why i have voted and abstained - i voted blank on this report. on the one hand, of course, it is very good if we can contribute to economic stabilisation and structural reforms that can modernise the economy and so on. on the other hand, i cannot help but sit back and ask the question: does it really work? i think we have been talking about ukraine for a long time, that we have spent an incredible amount of money, and it is very difficult to trace whether there is really value for money. that is why i am also pleased that a so-called sunset clause has been inserted into this report, so that it simply insists on checking the programmes - whether taxpayers' money is being spent properly or whether it is being wasted. it is a step in the right direction, but still not enough to convince me.
may i begin by asking, for the record, why we should sit and look at the flags of a territory that is in the middle east? there's not even any members behind the counter. couldn't they have been removed? i didn't think that's the way you were supposed to make visual markings in this room. that said, in relation to free trade, this report is certainly a step in the right direction. in the next 10 to 15 years, 95% of the world's growth will take place outside the eu. it is therefore absolutely essential that we conclude trade agreements, both with the emerging economies of mercosur, but certainly also with the united states and asia and elsewhere in the world. we cannot - although it sometimes seems to be the case when we hear speeches from this chamber - simply isolate ourselves in the small nucleus of countries that is the european union. the growth and the way forward will take place in many places in the future, outside the eu. so this is a small step in the right direction.
i have to say, madam president, it is good that we recognise cross-border professional skills in the eu. the member states must therefore of course also observe certain common rules. i am quite happy that we are updating these rules in the new proportionality test and that we are also strengthening transparency. but - and there is a but - when it comes to health and the rules for doctors and nurses and social and health workers, etc., i think it is up to the member states themselves to decide how they regulate these professions. health is something very special - it is a very special sector and member states organise this sector in very different ways. then there is the language barrier. that is why i am very sorry that we did not have an exception for health in this legislation on proportionality tests. i don't think that should be part of the proportionality test. health should be above the market. i support the proposal in general because it is good that we are getting an update of the rules.
mr president, i would like to thank you. weeks in the truck cab without a proper rest outside the truck and a poor wage that is hardly enough to live on are some of the main issues when we are dealing with the commission's proposal for a road package. and the answer is no, it's not right! no, there is no need for worse rules! the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem. that is why the trade union movement has tried to call us out. we must listen to them, ladies and gentlemen. social dumping on the roads is largely a result of the eu's internal market and unfair competition and it must be stopped! in the employment committee we invited the drivers and the unions inside. we had a real dialogue with them about the problems they face on the roads. that is why the committee on employment has tabled such important amendments. we take their problems seriously. ladies and gentlemen, listen to them! listen to the drivers! listen to the unions! i am not going to go into the details of the amendments.
mr president, i would like to thank you. tomorrow we will take a decision which will have a major impact on drivers throughout europe. in terms of driving/rest time, we have two options: we can improve the working conditions of drivers, or we can choose to make working conditions on the roads even worse than they are today. for me, the choice is easy, and there are two reasons for that: firstly, we must not accept that drivers have to live a nomadic life, living in their lorries and camping in car parks around europe in miserable conditions. when drivers have a weekend, of course, they don't have to sleep in the truck, they have to go home to their family if they want to. secondly, we must not accept that drivers are forced to work 20 days in a row with only two days off. we must fight social dumping and unfair competition. i would therefore recommend that you all vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on employment. we owe it to the drivers!
mr president, i would like to thank you. we voted in favour of this report, even though armenia has rejected a partnership agreement with the eu. and i can actually understand the armenians when you look at the way turkey and the eu are acting. because even if we are currently sending one bandit after another against erdogan and his regime, it is still a fact that turkey is a candidate country for eu membership. in the light of what we know and the way turkey is acting particularly towards armenia, i can well understand the armenians' desire to enter into closer cooperation with this union. and perhaps it is a little hint with a cartwheel that it is time for the eu to reverse its policy towards erdogan and turkey. if we are really serious about the criticism we are making of constantinople and the government, etc., then we must also adjust our policy accordingly. and say that turkey should not be a member of the eu!
mr president, i would like to thank you. the key point in this vote was not really the final one, but the amendment tabled no 1, which - unfortunately, against our wishes - was rejected. it is worth recalling that turkey, which as we know would like to be a member of this union, has not yet implemented the zurich protocols, which clearly place the historical responsibility for the terrible genocide against the armenians on turkey. it is a complete mystery to me why this house will not take a stand on something so completely fundamental and correct. we are dealing with a country which, if not revising its history, will not accept the historical responsibility which turkey has, of course, along with other european nations. if we are serious about influencing only our neighbours, we must also stand firm on the historical facts vis-à-vis turkey and insist that the zurich protocols be implemented.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i think it was a serious dilemma how to deal with this report as a critic of the european union. on the one hand, there is no doubt that involuntary marriages, children who marry before they are of age, we are all against this. it is disgusting to see what is happening in certain parts of the world. on the other hand, yes, the question is: is this really something that the eu should be concerned with? is it really the eu that is to ratify the un convention on the rights of the child? is the eu to have the authority to deal with issues of children's rights and marriage, etc.? i would like to say no to all of that. it is a matter for the member states. nevertheless, we ended up voting for this report because it is so important. but also because the report has no legislative significance. all these issues must be decided by the member states, not by the eu. we will ensure that this is the case in future and that the eu does not take advantage of this opportunity to assume this competence. but the matter is important, and that is why we voted in favour.
for the ecr group. i am not sure that this is the case. today's debate follows a long and sad tradition here in the european parliament, where there is a tendency, whenever a government is elected in a european country with which one disagrees politically, to start a shame game and such a constructed indignation here from the sacred halls of europe, to hit the voters who have dared to disagree with what has been agreed upon here in the brussels bubble. it started with the condemnation of the jörg haider government in austria in the late 1990s, it continued with an endless stream of accusations against governments in poland and hungary, in slovakia and malta. and now we have the next country in line, italy, which has chosen to elect a government that is not liked here in brussels. and that is why we are now going to spend our time in the house debating statements by an italian minister, a former colleague, which have been taken out of context and which can only be used to fuel the indignation that is clearly being felt in this city. but that indignation is a powerlessness! it is a defeat because most of the colleagues in this house are losing at national level. you have lost the trust of your people. europe is in a fundamental crisis and if we want to save the european project we must listen to the concerns of the europeans and not continue to ignore them, as is almost always done here in brussels. i wish the new italian government good luck in managing the internal political situation in italy and i hope that more people will listen to this reasoning that is coming instead of continuing the policy of closing their ears and going on as if nothing had happened!
the committee on culture and education has tabled an opinion. mr president, i thank commissioner oettinger for a good speech in which i stressed the priorities which the commission will pursue. the most important aspect of the culture committee is, of course, the extremely successful erasmus programme. i am glad to note that this was one of the first things the commissioner mentioned. all of us in the committee unanimously and a lot of other people in this house expect that there will be room for a substantial increase, both in 2019 of course, so that we can honour our commitments to the existing programme, but of course also to the erdf, if you look further into the future. this suggests that we at least have a broad consensus here, and i am personally very pleased about that. otherwise, as you know, the two major programmes that we are working on in the committee on culture are creative europe and europe for citizens, which are not as big as we had always hoped. i have been following this for some years and i can see that the ambitions have never been properly followed up with the budget. there has always been too little money, these programmes have been chronically underfunded. so i hope, if nothing else, that brexit and the migrant crisis, which we talk about so much, have meant that both here in the house and in the commission, you can see that you must not spare contact with the citizens. it is important to ensure that the european project also receives a budget when it comes to contact with the citizens. so we are certainly giving priority to this, and we hope and look forward to the commission helping to give priority to this as well.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is clear from this debate that it is approaching the tragicomic. this house, which enthusiastically welcomed the new member states of central and eastern europe, made it quite clear that it would welcome them into the club, but not the views coming from the countries. i do not understand how a commission which is not elected and a parliament which has lost the proportion of people who are willing to go down and vote for us in every direct election can preach about national democracy in the member states. it's beyond my comprehension! but that is why we can say here today that if this parliament and the commission continue their attacks on hungary, on poland and probably soon on italy, on austria and on whoever else comes after, the only thing that will be achieved is to push the europeans away from us and to destroy the cooperation that should actually be working well in the european union. it is certainly not to unite europe in diversity. and if you really believe in diversity, then you also gave the hungarian people, as you give all other people in europe, the opportunity to go down and vote, to choose their government and be governed accordingly.
mr president, madam high representative, taking stock of eu—us relations on this day, 9/11, is a sobering proposition. the life lost 17 years ago pains us deeply still and reminds us of the strength of a special bond between us europeans and americans. this is not a day for petty politics. this is a day to look past tweets and trade wars and forget bullying and bravado. when americans fought for freedom, help came from general lafayette, a great european who became a true american hero. after world war ii left europe devastated, the us’ marshall plan helped us rebuild. we have always stood up for one another and not against each other. today, however, our relationship is sadly and needlessly strained, not because of the peoples of europe or united states, but because of misguided politics. europe and the united states are the pre-eminent carriers of our western ideas: democracy, rule of law and freedom of expression – values now under pressure both from foreign agents and from within. let us stand together on this day instead of drifting apart.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the transatlantic relationship is without doubt the most important and strongest link linking europe and america as continents. that is why it is also important, at a time when many on both sides of the atlantic are questioning the necessity of the continued close ties, to stand up for it and remember that, although americans have been quite dissatisfied from time to time with the leaders we have democratically elected here in europe, the relationship should also survive the fact that many europeans are currently disappointed with the leader elected in the united states. that is why i also think that the report does too little to emphasize that the american military guarantee in europe remains the only thing standing between us and president putin in russia. it is important for us to stress, in relation to the report before us, that whilst we repeatedly complain about trump's internal interference in european affairs, the report contains too many examples of our interference in american affairs. i think the relationship would be better if we both refrained from that kind of interference.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i would like to remind the vice-president / high representative, that you started your mandate, ms mogherini, by telling this house that the israeli-palestine conflict was your foreign policy priority. you told this house that you would not accept any more demolitions of eu-funded projects. you told this house that you would do all you could to uphold international law and preserve the two-state solution. and what has this house witnessed under your mandate? no eu initiatives. an eu special envoy has gone missing in action; eu aid worth millions of euros destroyed in full impunity and no adequate labelling of settlement products. the village of khan al-ahmar that i and countless friends of the bedouins have visited is about to be destroyed. you have warned of severe consequences. this is your moment to save your record on this file, and that of all europeans. will you take action at last? if not, then when?
madam president, as co-rapporteur of the special committee on financial crimes, tax evasion and tax avoidance, i was pleased to hear you talk about the need for combating money laundering. what we see in europe is a crisis, and we need a real, comprehensive reform of anti-money laundering systems, regulations and authorities. it’s not only a money-laundering crisis, it’s a tax evasion and tax avoidance crisis too. it’s corruption, it’s terrorist finance. it’s already too rich and too powerful, swindling the tax coffers of our countries, and this must be stopped now. for some of europe’s largest banks, the free movement of capital has become freedom from responsibility. it is because these banks are so-called ‘too big to fail’. let me tell the commission: these banks have already failed. they have failed their responsibility to society, and we need to hold them accountable. in the danske bank case alone, transactions worth more than the entire state budget of denmark are now under suspicion of money laundering. so, president juncker and commission, we need not only to talk tough on holding banks accountable, we need to be tough on the banks.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in one respect this report has been quite outstanding. yeah, actually, a positive light in this house. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. time and again this house votes through sweeping reforms that limit democracy, that make it harder to be european, without anyone waking up at all, neither the press, the domestic bureaucrats nor the voters. but here the voters, the citizens, have been engaged after all. i think we have all received an enormous amount of requests, which has shown the interest in the case. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. is this really going to be a restriction on freedom of expression, as some fear, as i fear and as many fear? it's your job to prove that it's not happening. thank you for speaking.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there are many good reasons for controlling the money that is channelled into the eu both physically and electronically, and one of the areas that is unfortunately not covered by this report but which is of growing concern to me is the way in which certain countries in the middle east finance mosque activities. we have seen how a ministry in turkey, diyanet, is simply financing mosques on a growing scale throughout the european union and using them as a kind of bridgehead for a particular islamist propaganda. we have seen in denmark how the turkish government has given direct instructions to the mosques in denmark, and also how the embassies cooperate in monitoring turks in denmark and so on, and this is completely unacceptable. that is why i am disappointed that something so topical is not included in this report.
mr president, i would like to thank you. there is something paradoxical about the fact that, as the rules are today, you cannot go down to the post office and pick up a package, a birthday present, or whatever it is that you have sent, without having to have id and all sorts of other things to identify yourself. at the same time, it is perfectly easy to send thousands of euros to organisations and people all over the world who may be in third countries, whatever their intentions and whatever their plans for spending the money. there is, of course, something paradoxical about this, partly the way in which we are suspiciously making perfectly legal and regular citizens who just want to receive a birthday present from a nephew or another family member, and partly that in parallel it is so easy to finance and send money to organisations of which we have no idea at all, whether they are peaceful or not, whether they are with us or against us. this is a small step in the right direction, but unfortunately not at all the step we want, namely the intergovernmental model rather than the federal model. it's a shame we don't do the right thing when the opportunity is there.
i have to say, madam president, the european union must be a union of strong welfare states, a bulwark for each country and a genuine opportunity to ensure its citizens a well-maintained social safety net, including a fair pension system, with respect for the national and historical differences between our countries. social democracy was the father of the danish welfare state. it was built up through the toil of generations, and it suits us. but europe's welfare states are under pressure, from international tax fraud that drains the public purse of desperately needed billions for welfare, from bourgeois politicians who claim that you can privatize, outsource and save for better welfare. it is not possible, and that is why europe must be the defender of the welfare states and of the citizens for a proper pension system, proper welfare, proper health, proper education, it must ensure the freedom of our welfare states and the sustainability of our welfare states.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. the transition to a sustainable and circular economy is necessary. for the sake of the environment, to reduce the pressure on our planet's resources, and then for our health. so it is very good that we are now taking a big step, not least in the area of plastics. the plastic strategy presented is ambitious in terms of reuse and recycling. but this level of ambition for plastics has to be applied to the whole way we produce. in our circular economy, all our products must be capable of being upgraded, they must be durable, they must be repairable, they must be reusable and recyclable. we need to do this in all areas as well, not just in the area of plastics. but to ensure that this happens in a circular economy, it is also very important that we ensure that no dangerous chemicals enter our material circuits. that is the aim, the commission has said so, and everyone in this house wants it. but we are not at the finish line yet! until we reach the finish line, it is very important that we make a huge effort. we must intensify our efforts to substitute particularly problematic substances, not least endocrine disruptors. we must ensure that very comprehensive product information, especially on problem substances, is provided so that recycling and reuse take this into account. and we must also strengthen our efforts to classify, register, track and dispose of waste containing dangerous substances. because we must not compromise consumer safety on the way to a circular society. we have a long way to go before we have a well-functioning circular economy, and products already in the design phase take these things into account. to achieve this, we must all make a great effort: the commission, the member states, our agencies, our companies, etc. everyone must be involved! in our resolution in this house we are putting strong pressure on the member states to do what they have promised, otherwise we will not achieve our objectives. but fortunately, the ambitions are in place, and thank you for that!
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank mr mark demesmaeker for an excellent report. i could almost say that i completely agree with what the challenge is here, so i will not repeat it, but in general i would say: remember that when i made the plastic bag law in my day, it was used by the commission to say that it was 'small things'. it was something we were not supposed to deal with in the eu. and now frans timmermans has admitted he was wrong, and that was in jean-claude juncker's 'state of the union' speech - something to celebrate! we need plastic, that's right, that's what a lot of people have said. but there must be no poison in it. it must be used as little as possible and it must be recyclable and recoverable wherever we need it. and let me say that this is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity for all of us to go out and meet our electorate and be able to tell them that we are indeed taking a concern seriously that has now become pan-european. you have to be on the far right or a co-producer of oxo not to take this seriously. we're sitting with frédérique ries, working on a ban on single-use plastics. it's very important legislation coming up now. i would like to emphasize three things here, which are crucial: no toxic plastic. this is not just a problem for the marine environment, it is also a problem for the rest of nature. and let me say at the end that i think the commission is being too unambitious with oxo. we know it's just falling apart, we know symphony is trying to spread it in africa, in asia, and it's just spreading microplastics! it's not doing anything good for our nature. and i don't understand why we can't stop right now and say that this should be banned. there's scientific evidence to back it up.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i very much welcome the agreement on a common digital portal, the 'digital single gateway'. it is important that we create the best possible conditions for our citizens, and not least for our small and mediumsized enterprises, which are so crucial to growth in europe. the administrative simplifications play a very important role here, and the common digital portal is a very good step along the way. however, there are two things i would like to point out here today that are absolutely crucial to the success of this project. firstly, the member states must and must play their part in the practical implementation of the portal, we know that implementation is extremely important. the portal, like the eu in general, can only do so much as the member states are willing to support. member states must ensure digital solutions and provide access to their national procedures and schemes, otherwise the portal cannot be the success it should be. secondly, i really hope that the commission will ensure that the practical implementation of the portal is firmly anchored in dg grow. dg grow already operates successful portals for citizens and small businesses. it is important that we draw on the many years of positive experience with successful eu tools such as 'your europe' when the new portal is now established.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i don't have that much time, so let me be very direct. it is completely unacceptable in the eu's internal market that our consumers are treated differently depending on whether they come from western europe or eastern europe. we have now ensured that companies have a single market where they can sell their products everywhere. and yet there are companies that choose to treat consumers very differently. the same product on the outside, but vastly different qualities on the inside. we don't want to get in that mess! i think we should ban this unfair trade practice in the eu. we have no second-class consumers in europe. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the community. i really hope that we will get a clear signal from the european parliament today, and i really hope that we can stand together in this european parliament to ban this totally unacceptable, unfair trade practice. the consumers of europe must be the same, they must be treated equally and not on two different levels.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i was myself a member of that delegation and i can tell you that there was a great deal of joy in the village that parliament had made such a strong statement. i have some difficulty in understanding why the president of this parliament cannot say that we stand by what we have said, that we mean it seriously, and that if israel does not care what not only we, but the world community and international law say, then it is a scandal, to put it nicely. it is a disgrace on the part of this parliament and i think that mr cristian dan preda should be too good to abuse the situation of suffering people. i think the president should make a statement.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. once again, my group thanks unrwa for their wonderful work. it will be disastrous for the palestinian refugees if this aid is not provided. but we must take this into account in the context of the situation in occupied palestine, which has now reached a new low. read the press: palestine is on fire, the roads are flooded with blood. just a few examples from the last few days: on friday 7 palestinians were killed in gaza; on sunday there were several attacks by settlers against palestinians in east jerusalem; yesterday 93 palestinians were wounded in gaza, 7 were killed, including a child; yesterday there was the largest demonstration by israeli arabs against the knesset's recently adopted racist national state law; today there are general strikes all over palestine, also against the national state law, but also in support of the town of khan al-amar, which israel wants to demolish despite protests from all over the world, including a strong resolution from this parliament last month. what is the eu's response? a little worried muttering and a few extra euros. but we have very close ties with israel. we cannot ignore israel's systematic violations of international law and eu law, which are getting worse. commissioner: now the eu must live up to its own legislation and demand that it be respected by those with whom we cooperate. we must do so for the sake of the palestinians, but we must also do so for the sake of the european union itself. when we flout our own laws, we undermine ourselves as the rule of law.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the definition of insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting a different result, and i suppose that is what one might say that europe's approach to the israel-palestine issue has been all along. we are stuck in the same rut, and it is worrying to hear from somewhere the great support for an organization like unrwa in this house - an organization that has been repeatedly accused of fraud, corruption and anti-semitic messages towards its staff; a un organization that has almost the character of a state within a state, with such an exorbitant number of people on the payroll that it almost constitutes a whole faction in the palestinian authority. compare that to the fact that the only place in the world where refugee status can be inherited is apparently palestine. the european union is not only a political entity, but also a political entity, and it is not only a political entity, but it is also a political entity. this organization has not earned continued western support. that is why i think it is good that president trump has decided that the americans no longer want to support unrwa. i hope that the danish government will also stop its support. and one could also hope that one day it would make so much sense for the eu to stop ours.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today the danish government has proposed that we in denmark completely stop selling petrol and diesel cars by 2030. look at that ambition! so as i listen to the debate here tonight, i do think it is regrettable that there are some who think that a 45% reduction target for co2 emissions by 2030 is too ambitious. we need to ensure that we comply with the paris agreement on climate change, and we cannot do that without the transport sector contributing. we have to be ambitious. and we also have to be ambitious, because if we don't set the standard for our own car industry, we're going to be overtaken by industries from other parts of the world. the most ambitious thing is to make demands. it is ambitious to demand a 45% reduction. i fully support the position of the committee on the environment on this matter.
rapporteur. – mr president, mr commissioner, we politicians are often, and sometimes deservedly so, criticised for being all talk and no action. when it comes to the supposedly temporary system for cross-border vat in europe, that criticism has surely been warranted. for 25 years, nothing really happened. think about that: a quarter of a century has gone by with a patchwork of a system for cross-border vat in europe, full of loopholes, mismatches between 28 different systems of vat and outright black holes where even authorities didn’t know how to accurately assess vat dues. this system of compromises upon compromises and patchwork upon patchwork has been a contributing factor to the growing vat gap in europe. the problem has now reached a shocking and completely unacceptable scale, with an annual vat gap of around eur 150 billion every single year. now vat is of course short for value—added tax, but today i would propose that vat might also be short for value—added talk, because now apparently the right politicians have started talking to each other and action has indeed followed. commissioner moscovici has spearheaded a much—needed reform of the eu vat system, and we have had many constructive and productive talks with the commissioner and his team. in these talks, we have found workable solutions to a range of specific problems with the current vat model in europe. now, with the adoption of these new measures, as proposed by the commission and amended by parliament, we can reduce the current vat gap in europe by upwards of eur 41 billion a year, and at the same time ease the administrative burden for trusted companies who pay their fair taxes by an additional eur 1 billion a year. now that is only the start, we have some way to go, but it’s an ambitious and highly effective start. first of all, we will establish the legal cornerstone for a new and defined eu vat system. secondly, we will be adopting a number of urgently needed quick fixes to the current vat system. and finally, we will introduce a new safeguard against cross—border vat fraud in the form of certified taxable person status. however, before a definitive new vat system can be put in place, we need to address a number of urgent problems in the current system. these come in the form of four so—called quick fixes and will resolve long—standing issues related to the so-called call—off stock arrangements, where goods from one supplier are stored in the location of the customer but ownership of the goods is not transferred until the exact moment of use. here regulation and interpretation of rules vary between member states, which leads to legal uncertainty and to administrative burdens. now we will ensure simplified administrative requirements that will clarify legal requirements and ease cross—border sales. we will also introduce simplified procedures for so—called chain transactions, where again a problem of legal uncertainty as to where vat is ascribed in transactions between two or more companies currently exists. and finally, we will add simplification in relation to the proof of transport between companies and clarify that vat numbers must be duly recorded. however, these quick fixes and simplifications cannot stand alone. this is very important. by introducing the status of a certified taxable person, we ensure that trustworthy companies who dutifully pay their fair taxes will be able to benefit from the simplified procedures for cross-border vat, which will effectively cut down their administrative costs. it will also free up resources for member states’ authorities to more effectively scrutinise companies which have previously failed to pay their taxes. it will also give a clear incentive for businesses not only to obtain the status of a certified taxable person, but also to maintain that status. as the european parliament rapporteur, i urge member states to fully implement the ctp provisions as proposed by the commission and parliament. i’m a little disappointed by the decision today by the economic and financial affairs council (ecofin) in that regard. talking frankly, the quick fixes and running – as some have been tempted to do on the council side – are extremely ill-advised. this is a package and this must be adopted in its entirety. let’s not waste this opportunity by being reckless and throwing the door open to simplification of vat requirements to all corners. that would undermine the very purpose of these new initiatives and risk opening a new avenue for vat fraud in europe, and that would be the responsibility of the council if they did so. i would like to commend the commission, and commissioner moscovici and his team, for their dedication and excellent work in paving the way for a definitive vat system. i would also like to thank the shadows from each political group for their constructive approach, their cooperation on this file and their support in ensuring a very large majority for the adoption of these new measures in the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ). i look forward to our ensuing debate on this topic, and hopefully to the swift adoption of these urgently needed improvements of the vat system in europe.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it was a bit of a beauty contest to see what was going on in the environment committee here during the process leading up to the vote today, with all the incredibly ambitious proposals put forward by the various groups. we ended up with a good compromise, and our delegation and our group were able to agree with that, partly because of course it is important to do something about the climate, but it is also about our strategic and major political independence, which is a neglected theme in this debate. when we import large quantities of coal and gas and oil, it is from regimes and states with which we generally do not want to be associated and certainly not in the pocket of - in the middle east, russia and so on. i think it is important that we also talk about this dimension of the whole energy supply business, that it is really also about who we ally ourselves with - and that must of course be the western alliance with the united states at the head, nato, etc. not various regimes in the middle east.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is absolutely central to the independence of a nation to have control over the economy, i.e. tax collection, fiscal law and also the way in which we tax trade. that is why we voted against this report. we will not support the eu's imposition of a ceiling on vat payments. fundamentally, how the member states finance their budgets should be a matter for the member states - and when the eu is to finance its budgets, it should be the member states that collect the taxes, not the eu itself. so we are fundamentally opposed to the whole line taken in this report, because it leads to a greater federalisation of the whole financial system, the whole financial regulatory system in europe. i do not think that is what the europeans want, to be honest. that is why we are voting no.
mr president, i would like to thank you. one of the areas where globalisation has really taken a toll is, of course, the financial sector. i think we're all aware of that and have been for the last ten years, starting with the financial crisis, which was kind of an eye-opener, and what's happened since. it is therefore also sensible to make these new rules, to have insurance contracts which ensure a more transparent and comparable system. as international developments and financial globalisation continue, more and more consumers will need tools that allow easy comparison of services offered across national borders. i believe that what the econ committee has come up with in relation to insurance contracts is something that will benefit a great many consumers. that is why we voted for it.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the situation in the community. it's actually a big deal that we're standing here today to discuss this legislation on the free flow of non-personal data around the eu. it is a great step forward for us to establish this in the eu's internal market. it is part of the effort to ensure that we also have a digital single market. i am therefore glad that we have managed to find some good solutions which have the broad support of the political groups. it will provide many good opportunities for many companies and, therefore, it will also ultimately mean that the consumer will have much better choices. i can mention that in my own country apple, google and facebook are building data centers for the very big gold medal. a great many are being built, and it is good that we are now also creating legislation which makes it possible to attract data to countries which want it - and not least to countries which produce green energy. so i'm pleased. but i would also like to say that it is important that in working on the free flow of non-personal data we pay close attention to the rules we have agreed to. it's important that we make sure that wherever there's any personal data involved, the gdpr applies. we also need to be aware - but we have also written this into the legislation - that there is increasingly the possibility of converting non-personal data into personal data with technology, and here we also need to make sure that the gdpr is the legislation that applies. but when we secure it, i'll be very pleased. i am sure that we will have a better functioning internal market, we will have a boom in cloud services, and we can be sure that consumers will end up with better offers, better products, because with this competition they can also get cheaper offers. so i am very pleased and thank you for your cooperation, especially to mrs corazza bildt.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, europe has a huge money-laundering problem, from denmark to estonia, latvia, the netherlands, malta, germany and france. scandal after scandal has been uncovered, each one bigger than the last. in the danske bank case alone, upwards of eur 200 billion has been laundered through a single branch, in estonia, and at least some of these funds have been actively used to bribe european politicians to corrupt our institution and to whitewash authoritarian regimes. eur 200 billion: that is about ten times the size of estonia’s gdp. we have long known that these banks have grown ‘too big to fail’, but now, apparently, what has happened in these banks is that the people supposedly responsible have become too rich to jail – or at least impunity is more the rule than the exception. take the case of danske bank: not one member of the board has been kicked out. not a single executive has been fired, not even the ceo who was responsible for the estonian branch. no, they have been stepping down of their own accord, with full pay and a golden parachute. so, i ask you colleagues, commission and council: how is this justice, in the eyes of the people? what message does it send to would-be whistle-blowers who have inside information on illegal activities in european banks but fear to come forward? in the danske bank scandal, the whistleblower wasn’t even contacted by the danish financial supervisory authority, despite the fact they had his contact information. so, supervision of european banks seem to rely on a trust and honour system, and this clearly isn’t working. too many banks have abused our trust. therefore, we need a dedicated eu authority to supervise and assist national supervisory authorities in these complex money-laundering cases. we need drastically to improve protection of whistle-blowers in europe and we need to force national authorities to cooperate loyally, effectively and systematically because they are simply not doing that today and they are not implementing the anti-money-laundering legislation. bank fines in money laundering cases must no longer be counted in millions, but in billions. and we need to strengthen fit and proper requirements to ensure that those responsible never set foot in a bank boardroom again. we have a lot to do. i look forward to this debate.
the gue/ngl group is therefore in favour of the report. mr president, first of all, thank you for taking this debate. there's a lot of problems. over the past several years, several large banks have been responsible for great misery. first, they throw us into a financial crisis, which costs hundreds of thousands of jobs, sends people into poverty and costs our society dearly. in addition, several of them have actively helped shady individuals and businesses launder money and evade taxes. in other words, the banks have cheated and deceived us all, all the while paying staggering sums to one director after another. to make matters worse, we as a society have poured billions of dollars into the pockets of those very banks. why would you do that? because we're afraid that our communities won't survive if the banks go bust. but it is shameful - shameful for the banks, shameful for us, and not least for the system that allows it. a system which turns a blind eye to tax evasion and even to the fact that the authorities of some countries have helped to circumvent the rules. so here we are again with another example of a big bank that has once again deceived us all in every way. and the answer? the answer is some vague phrases about tightening up surveillance and intelligence a bit. but, frankly, if we're going to be able to face ourselves, we need to do more than that. we have to go where it hurts. what is the solution? the solution, funny as it may seem, is not this time either, that we just need more europe. no, the solution is to give the member states more rights, the right to break up the biggest banks, so that we no longer have to accept 'too big to fail' banks, and we have to give the countries the opportunity to set up sensible state banks so that ordinary citizens can choose a bank that does not speculate on profit. i would also like to see the countries limit the unregulated movement of banks across borders. it is the big guys who benefit from the unfettered free movement of capital. our society is a loser.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. i am not sure that this is the case. the fight against plastic pollution in both the sea and in nature has become a people's issue, and that is why it is important that we now deliver something proper so that the people - our citizens - can see that we are doing something right here. so thank you to the commission for a good proposal which follows the strategy we also had in my plastic pollution law, namely prevention. this is the most important thing of all: prevention! i also thank frédérique ries for an excellent report which has been further improved. i hope it will be adopted with little change. so a small remark to my italian colleagues in particular, who apparently believe that it is more important to save italian industry than nature, and who believe that plastic can be replaced by bioplastics: bioplastics are as polluting in nature, they do not break down in the sea, and they must be used with the same care as ordinary plastics.
blue card questions. what are you talking about? mr president, two municipalities in denmark have tried to ban balloons flying in from england because they are used for advertising. they're being carried in by the westerly wind. i know that coastal areas are not the great scourge in germany, but there have been large areas in denmark where they are coming in like a blast, and there one can of course say that producer responsibility is already clear because one can see that they are being used for advertising. but it's actually a burden on these shorelines, and i can...
i have to say, madam president, this commission has been marked by crises: from the euro crisis over brexit to the migration crisis and now to a general crisis of confidence on the part of the european people. it is therefore almost tragicomic to imagine that the main theme of the presentation of the work programme is the prohibition of single-use plastics and balloons and the idea that member states should now be free to choose whether or not they want summertime and to which time zone they wish to belong. if the commission had really wanted to tackle the root of the problem - instead of talking about future projects with the united states of europe, a common president, a common foreign policy, a budget for the euro zone, etc. - but had instead addressed the very real concerns of the people of europe about their security and the totally uncontrollable migration, and if it had left the internal democracy of the member states alone, the eu project would have a much better chance of surviving in the long term after brexit.
mr president, i have to say, this cum-ex scandal is a true scandal of how you can do a robbery against our population, against our state coffers. taxes that people have paid out of their hard work were stolen by people working in the biggest banks in europe – lawyers, accountants, advisors. to me, this shows that we need really to do much more in europe. i want to use an example from this scandal. germany already discovered, in 2012, that there was a cum-ex scandal. they even started to arrest people. but they didn’t warn the other member states on the list that they found among these fraudsters. they didn’t warn denmark, france and the other countries that they were the next in line. and now we have a bill of at least more than eur 50 billion stolen from the population. so what we need in the eu is a 112 number – an emergency number you can call when you see fraud in your member state and have tax authorities and the police working together in a coordinated fashion, assisting member states and stopping these fraudsters once and for all.
the alde group is not in favour of this. i would like to thank the president-in-office. three years ago, european leaders joined hands in paris to sign an ambitious climate agreement. hands on the front lines of the climate fight. but sometimes it may seem that the governments themselves are suffering from what might be called acute green amnesia. they promised us gold and green forests at the paris toast, but at the negotiating tables in brussels, suddenly there may be a long way to go to deliver on the promises. and that also applies to my own government in denmark, which used to be even more ambitious in the green area. just look at the new renewable energy and energy efficiency targets we are voting on this week. it is a clear opportunity to raise green ambitions. obviously, because we know that climate change is a bigger threat than ever before. and of course, because we know that the price of solar and wind energy is falling year by year. obviously because we need to be independent of putin in the east and the sheikhs in the middle east. it is good that we were able to make at least some agreements, and congratulations to all the rapporteurs involved, but we are not ambitious enough on behalf of the climate. we must be even more ambitious, otherwise we will lose the fight against climate change that is currently under way. we are the first generation to experience these climate changes, and we are the last to do anything real and effective to limit them. that is why our governments must keep what they have promised in paris, and if they forget it, we in the european parliament must be more than ready and willing to help them along the way, as we have done through all the negotiations we have been through here.
i have to say, madam president, i thank the commission, the rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs for a very solid result. you have helped to lay the foundations for a more sustainable european energy system with the new rules. and there is a lot at stake: the future climate, our international climate agreements, and with these rules we actually have a huge european growth potential. our imports are increasing, and this makes us vulnerable in the eu in the long run. we cannot continue to become more and more dependent on gas from putin and oil from the middle east. and then we are also talking about the fact that it is the energy bills of citizens and the competitiveness of companies and export opportunities that are at stake. if we don't use our energy wisely and better, our companies will pay the price through higher carbon pricing. so it takes ambitious, long-term priorities to get europe on the right track. all energy is valuable and must be used optimally, so the concept of 'energy efficiency first' must be put into practice. the new enforcement rules will ensure that eu countries deliver. european energy policy is only as strong as the eu countries make it. it is therefore a question of good implementation and timely implementation. the updated renewable energy framework sets a clear path for europe's green transition and global leadership and even more european innovation and new thinking in, inter alia, the bio- and transport sectors.
the rapporteur is requesting the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. i would like to thank the president-in-office. we are in the midst of a new digital age, and this places extra demands on all of us to create the best possible environment for european users and european citizens. our community is best for europe's citizens and businesses when we can travel, trade and, above all, communicate across borders without barriers. and that's kind of what this telepathic package is all about. we in the liberal group are pleased that we have succeeded in securing a faster and better internet throughout europe. we are glad that it has been possible to make it cheaper to call from one eu country to another, and we are very glad that this proposal establishes a so-called reverse 112 system, where we as citizens can receive messages on our mobile phones in the event of an emergency. i personally think the reverse 112 system is a great idea. during the terrible terrorist attack in brussels, i remember how we did not know what was happening, other than what we could read about on the news, but with the reverse 112 system, we as citizens will be able to receive secure information from our authorities. it will be able to save lives in practical terms for the benefit of all of us, for the benefit of europeans, and we should be glad of that, thank you very much for your cooperation with the other rapporteurs. that is a very sensible package we can adopt here today!
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is interesting to hear the debate here, how everyone is fighting over how to distribute the money of the european taxpayers as much as possible. but in reality, it is not a question of who gets money from the eu's swelling budget that is the key issue. no, the question is really how the money gets there! the fact is that today the 28 member states pay into the budget by agreement, but what is being proposed here, and what the vast majority of meps want, is that the eu should be able to collect its own taxes. and it's not really about economics at all. it's about power! for everyone knows that there is a central link between the democratic right to vote for a parliament and the fact that it is the parliament which must then be responsible for its decisions, including how its budgets are financed. that is why the european parliament and all federalists naturally want to transfer that competence to parliament, away from the member states, away from the governments, away from the national and democratic. that is the heart of this report, and that is why i voted no in the name of democracy.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we saw yesterday in this chamber the german chancellor, angela merkel, standing up and speaking for the need for a common european defence. we have heard the same thing from macron in paris and from commission president juncker, etc. this report is of course part of that strategy. i cannot imagine anything more dangerous than the idea of european defence being detached from the america which for several generations now has been the guarantee of the peaceful relations we have. a world war i in which it was unthinkable that the outcome would have been what it was if the americans had not intervened. a second world war and so on. i cannot understand, and i cannot even begin to fathom, how this house can take such an ahistorical, unhistorical approach to something as essential as the defence of europeans. we need the americans, they need us, even though we may not agree with everything that's going on in the white house right now. everything else is just constitutionally you only get four years at a time, we're not gonna use these sudden sentiments to throw the baby out with the bathwater.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would like to say a few positive words about the schwab report, because it is so crucial for growth and trade that we have proper rules for the internal market. but one of the great problems with the internal market is precisely that it has developed at such a rapid pace that the sensible rules have not been able to keep up. we see this for example in the judgments of the court of justice of the european union, which obliges member states to suddenly pay social benefits that are far beyond what is reasonable, far beyond what voters have ever been expected to pay when they have voted on the treaties as a result of the internal market. i therefore believe that we need to take a critical look at what the single market really means today. the free movement of goods and capital is relatively free of problems, but services and workers are beginning to pose more and more problems in relation to our social welfare systems. we must not close our eyes to that, even if mr schwab has difficulty opening hiss.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it was one of the greatest american presidents, abraham lincoln, who said that you can fool part of the population all the time, all of the population some of the time, but you can't fool all of the population all of the time. we in europe can be happy about that, because it seems to us in this house that russian influence on national affairs is something new. you've completely forgotten the cold war, where most of the left, including the peace movement, received stacks of russian cash, aiding russian propaganda to undermine the defences of the west. so you talk about this whole thing with elections -- influence elections -- as if it's a new thing. it's not! and fortunately, there is already a great deal of understanding among european voters to distinguish between dirt and cinnamon. but if you are so concerned about preventing influence on national elections, then why not look at the system you have created here in the european union? you spend millions and millions of taxpayers' money on propaganda for all that is good, all that is right, the wonderful political union, without even asking the europeans whether this is the direction they want. you equate fake news with eu-skepticism in your debates, and you go so far in your proposals to combat fake news that the director of the danish institute for human rights, jonas christoffersen, publicly warned at the bornholm referendum this year that the methods you use will legitimize dictatorships such as china, russia, venezuela and all others who want to suppress the freedom of expression of their people. you risk throwing freedom of expression and democracy out the window because you are so afraid of losing to the european populations and to the european voters who are sceptical of your utopian dream of a united states of europe.
mr president, this debate is very important because freedom of expression, freedom of opinion, the freedom of having free elections where citizens can cast their ballots freely is fundamental for our european democracy, for democracy as such. i’m honestly quite shocked when i listen to some of our colleagues from the far right saying that the threat of foreign actors is not a threat to the freedom of people and democracy in europe itself. it’s astonishing that they can claim that there’s no threat. it’s been proven: take the us election as evidence that foreign actors like russia have interfered with the purpose of destroying our freedoms, our democracy, the free will of people to cast their ballot at the polling station. this is so important, and we have to ask this very uncomfortable question: if you do not react together and protect our freedoms, our democracy, then i would ask you – how many seats will russia have in this parliament at next year’s election? because that’s what will happen if we allow ourselves to be fooled into believing that we’re not seeing interference by foreign actors. they are not trying to strengthen our democracy. on the contrary, they want to destroy our democracy, our freedoms. they have a totally different world-view. we should not take that threat lightly and, therefore, i’m very happy about the different kind of plans and actions that are being taken now. i’m also happy to see that the concerns – 73% of europeans have this concern, as the commissioner alluded to – this is a concern we need to respond to. we need to show people that we protect their right to live in democracy and freedom and, therefore, in my opinion, russia should have no one elected next year for this parliament. we should stand together on our core values no matter which political group we belong to.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, it is time to end the member states’ protection of their national rail companies and replace it with the protection of rail passengers. for the alde group, that means we want to introduce compulsory through-ticketing systems for passengers. we want the commission to develop an eu complaint form for use in the event of cancellations or delays. we want, in the case of missed connections due to delay or cancellation, to ensure a passenger the right to take the next service available. we also want to encourage railway undertakings and ticket vendors to develop an automatic compensation system. we want to push for an exchange of information between ticket vendors and the railway undertaking; we want to rationalise the compensation rates; we want to ensure spaces for bicycles; and, of course, as mentioned by my colleagues, we want to ensure better assistance for people with reduced mobility. let me say to ms anderson, the alde group will support her amendment tomorrow. we too want to delete the force majeure provision, and i want to thank ms anderson for putting this amendment forward. if we want to shift more transport from other modes to rail, those demands should not be too much to ask for. en marche! as they say in france.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank the minister for her clear statement. there is no doubt that what we have seen now is a real blow to the disarmament of nuclear weapons in the world. we all understand that russia is not complying with the intermediate-range nuclear forces (inf) treaty and there is real concern, but it’s the wrong reaction from the us president to withdraw from such an important treaty. with the new start (strategic arms reduction treaty) expiring in 2021, we could, in the worst case, be left out of control of nuclear states with their nuclear arsenal and we could go back to a situation which i think we have to go back to 1972 to see. this is really detrimental. we should – as the european union, as europeans – ask trump to reconsider. we need to fight hard for disarmament and the control of nuclear weapons. i remember a time when the previous president, president obama, gave a speech on a world without nuclear arms and i think we are now, unfortunately, on the wrong track. so let’s react and let’s react together as europeans.
the s&d group is not in favour of this. i am not sure that this is the case. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr løkke rasmussen, for his report. allow me to speak in my native tongue on this occasion. the peace project, migration, climate change, the achievement of a well-functioning internal market, free and fair trade, all these are important issues on which we can agree that we must strengthen the cooperation we are engaged in. but it is also important to say that when there is discontent among the citizens of europe, it is also because there are also failed policies. we have seen globalization in recent decades, which has brought many positive things, but also negative things. we have lost control of areas where the citizens rightly demand that we take back control democratically. so some - liberals and conservatives in particular - have been celebrating the winners of globalization and turning a blind eye to those who are paying the price in terms of wage suppression and social dumping. let me give you an example: in the last 20 years, the corporate tax rate in the eu countries has fallen from 35% to 22%. the development continues. there's a treasure trove down there. apple, facebook and google have paid less than 1 percent of their profits in europe in taxes. the european public treasury has been robbed of over 400 billion in the cum-ex scandal, the cum-cum scandal, as we have seen in many european countries. denmark alone has lost over $4 billion to these swindlers. they stole from our treasury, bandits in suits. the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the transparency of taxation, such as the introduction of a tax on digital giants, a common corporate tax base in europe, a financial transaction tax, open accounts for subsidiaries of multinational companies, a consolidated corporate tax base in the eu, an eu alert centre for tax fraud and money laundering, and financial crime. all these concrete solutions to international tax evasion are being actively combated by your government - your government! - at eu level. the prime minister's own tax minister even refused to meet with the special tax committee here in parliament when we invited him. so, prime minister, in the fight against international tax evasion, your government is all too often, unfortunately not - and i regret this - part of the solution, but part of the problem. and, mr prime minister, that is what european cooperation is all about. we agree on that and we agree on finding good, pragmatic common solutions. and decisions are made by those at the table, as we all know in this room. that is why i am also surprised that the danish government is so little active in the eu as it is. even in our own fully declared brand cases - and it was also mentioned here in the speech of the prime minister - the government is absent. seven days before the 2015 elections, you, the left, the danish people's party, the conservatives and the liberal alliance issued a joint statement under the headline, i quote, "civic parties will ensure danish welfare in the eu". you went to the polls on and i quote; secure daily wage rules so that eu citizens cannot in future obtain full entitlement to danish daily wage after just a few weeks of membership of a pension fund and full-time work in denmark. we now have to say that the government is not able to live up to the promise it made before the last elections, that it has not made the necessary efforts in the council of ministers and that we now have the same situation here in parliament. why should it take a full 1266 days from the moment when the left, the danish people's party, the liberal alliance and the conservatives promised the danes to limit the possibilities of exporting welfare benefits until they now take the matter up in the european parliament, as we heard today. i don't understand that. the important thing, mr prime minister, is that we have a strong europe based on the values that distinguish us as well-functioning welfare states, well-functioning democracies and the protection of the rights of citizens. so it's people before the market. it is labour before stock prices, and it is also climate before competition. in this way we can build a future europe that respects the concerns of its citizens and protects our particular social model in europe. we have to stand together. we need a new course, and i would have liked to hear more about it today.
for the ecr group. i am not sure that this is the case. mr president, on behalf of the ecr group and the danish people's party, i welcome you to the european parliament. we have been very much looking forward to hearing your vision for the future of the european union. i understand that a lot of the discussion is about the eu as a peace project, and perhaps one might be tempted to ask the prime minister what conflicts denmark might have gotten into if we had not joined the eu in 1973. but today it is more appropriate for me to ask the prime minister about the defence reserve, which the prime minister and his defence minister have recently said we should abolish. it is perhaps surprising that the danes are now being asked, not for the first time, but for the second time, and not for the second time, but for the third time, to take account of the reservations made in a referendum, even though they have been confirmed each time. but what i find more puzzling about the defence reserve, mr prime minister, is what is the left's logic? the left wants, as i have heard, to get rid of the defence reserve so that we cannot participate in a european army. it is contradictory, and i can understand the logic of the prime minister thinking that if he just sits down at the table he can prevent the creation of a european army, despite the fact that this parliament, the commission, germany's angela merkel and president macron are all ardent supporters of the project. indeed, the latter macron has even said that the initiative is partly directed against our close friend and ally the united states. but, mr. prime minister, i'm sorry, i think you're a little overconfident in that area. i do not think you can turn the tide here in europe when it comes to federalisation, and the reason i do is precisely what you yourself have brought up today with the welfare benefits. it is true that your government has been defeated one after another in its fight against welfare tourism, which was a common ambition of our parties before the last elections. you have failed to index child benefit, even though the austrian government has gone down that road. unfortunately, you don't want to run the same risk of litigation before the european court of justice. and compared with the fight for daily allowance, where before the elections it was a disaster that full daily allowance could be given after a little over a month, the majority now subscribe to the idea that it should be given after one day's work in denmark, and you have to take this daily allowance with you to another eu country for up to six months. so, dear prime minister, i respect that you want to sit at the table, but it doesn't seem to be in the best interests of denmark whether you're there or not. one might then be led to believe that the string of defeats the government has run into in its eu policy issues presented before the election had made the prime minister and his party reflect on all the positive feelings one generally has for the eu project. that does not seem to be the case at all. the prime minister has just held a national meeting in the left party, and i can understand that the mantra that emerged from that meeting in the european elections was that the left party is denmark's most pro-european party, and right must be right, and that is how i feel about this matter from the european parliament's point of view. you are in the federalist alde group, you have supported mr verhofstadt as group chairman of the group, you have supported him as spitzenkandidat in the last european parliament election campaign, and you have even supported him for the presidency of this european parliament. that was a warm declaration of support for mr verhofstadt, the author of the book on the united states of europe. it is good to have the love of alde, and the declaration of support was that mr verhofstadt had the clearest visions for europe. and mr verhofstadt's vision is clear! it is a new eu constitution, containing everything from a common president, foreign minister, finance minister, direct taxes, a union army, the abolition of all national reservations and the forced distribution of migrants. and mr verhofstadt's vision goes even further: he has also said that the ultimate consequence of thinking in terms of national identity is the gas chambers at auschwitz, and finally that our homeland is now europe, our national anthem is now the anthem, our flag is the 12 yellow stars on the azure blue background. these are, i must say, clear liberal visions for europe, mr prime minister. and i look forward to you and denmark's most pro-eu party, the left, challenging those views in the campaign leading up to the 2019 european parliament elections.
mr. chairman, please. first of all, i want to thank the prime minister for a great speech, thank you for the perspective that is specifically on climate, sustainability, energy. the prime minister's being attacked like that is a bit domestic, but we have to take it as it comes. it is a tradition in this house that when we have prime ministers from denmark, they are attacked by the danish people's party. so, on the subject of climate, sustainability and so on, i'm glad for the moments that came up in the speech today. there is one place i'd like to hear if the prime minister agrees. it is the building blocks of europe. we use 40% of our energy in our homes, 75% of europe's buildings are energy inefficient, so we need to do something about the existing building stock to meet climate targets. so there are now some long-term plans for eu member states to increase the renovation rate of our buildings in europe, so that we can also meet the climate targets, while actually being the cheapest way to cut co2 at all. and once again, welcome to the club!
mr. chairman, please. thank you, prime minister, and welcome to the european parliament. i am not surprisingly in full agreement that the eu is of course the way forward for denmark, that the eu is incredibly important for denmark's future. but an offensive danish eu policy requires that the eu be given priority in denmark. that does not do it enough at the moment in my best opinion. let me give you a few examples. danish ministers are among the least diligent when it comes to appearing in the eu's council of ministers, according to a survey by the europa think tank. denmark has no strong partners in the eu, according to a study for the european council on foreign relations. the lack of friends means that denmark is struggling below its weight class on the eu stage, the study says. and denmark could be a green superpower, pulling the eu in an even greener direction, if we wanted to. that is why i am calling on the prime minister here today to seek real common solutions to the real problems. my appeal to the prime minister would be that denmark should abandon the bilateral initiatives with austria in the refugee field and seek real joint solutions to the common problems we face, jointly.
mr. chairman, please. welcome, mr prime minister, and thank you for your speech. if it all worked out, i think i could agree with most of it. i have one point that is of great concern to me. humanism is a very strong value in the european community. and it is nice to hear that you are adamant that denmark must also sign the marrakesh treaty, that you will not let yourself be pressured. but i must say that i am very concerned to hear that you may not be able to resist the pressure to introduce a new principle into our asylum policy, namely a scrub-off principle. instead of telling people that once they've come here and been here for a while and the kids are here and so on, they can have a life. kids can have a life. unfortunately, there is now a tendency in denmark to say that those who are here on some kind of refugee status should go home. i hope that it will not be a danish position, and i hope especially that it will not be a european position, and that you will go along with it, but it is very scary if we come together and concentrate primarily on building big walls, border controls and then saying goodbye to the people who come here, who also have - yes, excuse me - the right to a life.
mr. chairman, please. and welcome to the european parliament, mr prime minister. i have listened with particular interest to your words about listening to the citizens. because we really need to listen to the citizens and take them into account and make sure that they are the focus. that is why i am surprised that you so categorically reject referendums. it is precisely here that we can find out what the position of the citizens is. now, you may have some sort of special ability to predict what the public thinks, but frankly, the only way we can be sure is actually by a referendum. that is why it worries me when you talk about denmark joining a banking union, but completely refuse to ask the citizens what they think about the banking union. or like when you talk today about us having more trade deals, despite the fact that they face great resistance precisely because they limit our democracy and because they expose core elements of our well-being to be destroyed. therefore, mr prime minister, take your own words seriously, ask the citizens what their own position is, hold a referendum. thank you!
mr. chairman, please. mr president, i would like to thank you for your excellent report. although we don't agree on everything in politics, i think it's nice to see the prime minister of his country here. i am also very glad that you emphasized this issue of free movement and fair movement when you told me about the situation with the drivers down in padborg. but i'd like to get you to try and expand on that a little bit. what do you think we can actually do to solve this? we are talking about the future of the european union: what can we do in the social field? for example, are you in favour of a social protocol which equates workers' rights with freedom of movement? it's one way of doing it, even if it's not easy. this is a matter of the utmost importance to us. i think it is quite crucial for us to resolve these matters, to get the support of the people for us to remain strongly committed to our european cooperation, so i am very much looking forward to hearing your views on this.
mr. chairman, please. welcome prime minister, and welcome lars. even from the left. and thank you to all my unmarked danish colleagues for starting the campaign in this room, i think it's nice to be reminded that we are now in the process. i would like to point out that what concerns me a great deal - i will not repeat some of the many questions and comments and issues that have been raised, which are also election issues - but just point out that much of the debate that is taking place, which is a little worrying, is a debate which, as you can hear it illustrated here, is a debate about more or less. there are also a few of my colleagues who have made it a question of more or less europe, which is a wrong - completely wrong - premise for a conversation, so i would like you, mr prime minister, to say a few words about the fact that it may be a question of a better europe, not more or less europe. if you could elaborate a little on that, because i think the debate deserves it, before everyone goes into the usual self-serving way of making it a question of more or less europe. and then a single comment on the whole debate currently taking place on regulation 883: i think it is quite right to stress that we have a special obligation here in the house because we are in a situation in the council where what is happening is not necessarily very helpful. so if you could perhaps elaborate on the situation that exists, to make it clear to other members in this house too that we have a special obligation to ensure that this debate does not go completely off track.
mr. chairman, please. well, i'd like to welcome you too, mr. prime minister. when you hear anders vistisens' speech to you, some people in this house will be surprised that you share the political canvas with them in everyday life. it is possible to be quite worried about whether you are actually suffering from stockholm syndrome, but otherwise i would say that we, the radical left, are an open-minded party, and we are also pro-asylum, so if the prime minister should need help one day, we would be happy to discuss it. i would like to be allowed, as one of those who normally criticise you, to sign both your presence here today and the government's position on the marrakesh treaty, despite internal protests and pressure from the danish people's party not to sign it, and to support the idea that we should start discussing defence policy in the eu. even your speech today was about what we should do in the eu, instead of what we in denmark are always talking about what we should not do. but it is not a matter of four fixed points if we are to create support for european cooperation. it requires coherence in defence and security policy, a common tax base so that we can put an end to all the cheating that is going on in the financial sector, common immigration rules. what is the government doing to unblock the situation that is in the council at the moment where things are locked on the asylum package? it also requires social equality, a certain social equality, if we are to have support for free movement. it is a question of defending democracy and the rule of law, and it is a question of ensuring that we have some children's rights in the european union. and that is what i would like to ask the prime minister: what is the danish government doing in the council to promote these causes? the prime minister says that you should put your head down and listen to the people, yes, but it's also fine, churchill just answered when he was told that he should put his ear more to the ground, that "it's harder for people to look up to me". i would like the danish prime minister to be a little more involved in the danish eu debate instead of always lying on the floor with the danish people's party. but thank you for coming today.
mr. chairman, please. thank you for that. i would like to begin by thanking mrs bienkowska very much for doing a very important thing for the car industry and for the internal market, namely to get along with those member states which do not provide for and comply with our legislation. thank you for doing this, it's necessary, even if it's hard work. the single market is very, very important to us and we are celebrating its 25th anniversary. but when we look at the big picture and see that we're not on target with everything, it might also be because we're sometimes focusing on a little bit of the wrong thing. it is therefore very important that we have the right laws on the internal market. but the implementation must also be right, and the enforcement must also be right, and it has not been. perhaps we should be more focused in the future on having a little less legislation to work with in order to make the single market work. i do not want to be seen as being against regulation, i want regulation, but a little less, a little more important legislation, and then make sure that it is adopted, implemented and enforced. i believe that is the way forward for our good internal market.
for the ecr group. the marrakesh declaration is a sham support for cultural radicals and liberal ideas which have led europe into the morass we see today, where member states are turning against each other because they can no longer cope with the enormous illegal immigration that is taking place. so what is the solution, if you ask the un? it is to recognise a concept of 'climate refugees', it is to give migrants social rights, and it is to talk about integration instead of repatriation of refugees whose stay by definition is to be temporary until they get protection. fortunately, we are approaching ten eu member states that will not be signing this insane document, including sensible countries outside the eu such as switzerland, the usa and australia. but it is shameful that my own country, denmark, has not yet taken the decision not to sign the marrakesh declaration, even though the government's own political positions are in direct contradiction to its content. so i call on my own government in denmark to follow the sensible people in the eu, not to go to marrakesh, not to sign this un nonsense!
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you for that, thank you for speaking and also thank you to all our european citizens who are the reason we are sitting here tonight discussing this regulation. because if it had not been for the intense struggle of the citizens to have this discussion about glyphosate, we would not have had this regulation. i think it is a very good regulation and i would therefore like to thank the european commission for listening to the citizens' initiative and listening to the european parliament. this is really good and it is really gratifying because this regulation actually gives us the opportunity to bring much more transparency, openness and sustainability into our whole food chain. and this is important when we have a single market where our food is transported across many borders. it is important that citizens are assured that they will not be made ill by them. it is important that they know what kind of meat they are eating, but it is also important that they know what kind of pesticides are used in their food, and this regulation will give us a much better opportunity to do that. we must have independent experts to help us decide whether a pesticide is harmful or not, so that we do not just listen to what the chemical industry says. i think it's really important that we secure this. we will give some more options to the efsa so that they can also come up with much better recommendations for us. in the final analysis, this means that we will not only have cleaner and safer food, but that we will also have the real guarantee that our european citizens can trust that we are really fighting for their interests. thank you, sir.
mr. chairman, please. what we are hearing today, that is to say the commission's and parliament's vision for the future of foreign, security and defence policy, is making things very uncomfortable. we are talking about foreign policy which now has to be decided by majority decisions. we are openly talking about a so-called eu army and we are talking about strategic anatomy, which is just another word for saying that we should no longer be friends and allies with our colleagues in nato from the united states and canada, but instead stand completely alone in the world. the most frightening thing from a danish perspective is that the governing party, the left, is now talking about a showdown with our defence reserve, which protects us against all these pranks from the danish side. and the left's argument that we should enter into eu defence cooperation precisely to avoid an eu army is almost ridiculous when we hear in this parliament that the ambition is precisely an army of our own with the anatomy of our nato allies, so the left owes the danes an answer: do you want the eu army or do you not want it?
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteurs for their excellent work. what we can see now is that we have a corporate system in europe and in the world that doesn’t fit the realities of the 21st century. the fact of the digital giants we are discussing today paying no, or very little, tax on their income in europe is a disgrace vis-à-vis our citizens and our welfare states. it has always been our aim to have fair taxation, putting the burden not only on citizens but on all of the participants in society, which are benefiting from society. the digital giants benefit a lot when they do business in our single european market, and therefore it’s high time that we stopped the big hole of their paying no tax or very little tax in europe. the digital services tax is just an interim proposal until we have a better global solution, that’s clear: but the governments that are now turning their backs on this proposal are, in a way, lobbyists for the big tech giants. they are not on the side of the people who are, of course, demanding that these tech giants also pay their fair share of tax. recently, in the tax3 committee, we had google, one of the big tech giants, at our hearing, and they told us bluntly that they pay 85% of their global income tax in their home market, as they call it, the usa. but you all know that there are more users of google in europe than in the usa, and worldwide the discrepancy is even bigger. what we see here is a big problem, and what we are doing with this digital services tax, and with the permanent establishment rule is to solve some of the problems in the shorter term. we need an overhaul of the whole corporate tax system. we need to show citizens that, in the european parliament, we are standing up for them and we also need to point out – to name and shame – governments who are on the side of the big corporates instead of the side of the citizens. that’s why we need to support this proposal and put maximum pressure on the council.
the verts/ale group is therefore in favour of the proposal. mr president, and thank you to mrs eleonora for a fine and clear report, which we of course support and we very much hope that the epp will not succeed in continuing its usual campaign against openness. it's some kind of german conservative disease that we're dying with everywhere. they don't like transparency, but thank you. we hope that we will succeed in doing so here in the house, as we did in the committee, and i would like to thank you, emily, for a very good job and for your commitment to openness and to the absence of conflicts of interest - two fundamental principles of the administration and the authorities, thank you very much! but i would especially like to thank you for your special report on the council's lack of openness. it is so clear and it is so precise and it has given us a very very good, sharp weapon - excuse my belligerent rhetoric - when we are trying to get this thing through and make it clear that the reason people feel there is a democratic deficit is that the council continues to behave as if it were an 'intergovernmental institution' and not an open legislative institution, and i think you have made it so clear that what is being violated here is the provisions of the treaty that citizens actually have a treaty right to active participation in democracy, and they cannot have that when not even their own parliaments, let alone their own press, know what is going on. so thank you so much for that! it's a very, very important job leading up to this election. thank you, sir.
for the ecr group. mr president, we are again debating the situation in egypt in this chamber, and although there are some worrying trends, i think we should remember that our record in relation to egypt, both here in the european parliament and on the commission's side, is rather bleak. we actively supported the so-called arab spring, and the consequences for egypt were absolutely insurmountable, both for the country itself and for europe. a stable egypt with economic progress is in europe's strongest interest, and the worst thing that could happen to european stability in our neighbourhood is precisely a destabilised egypt. that is why i find this decision highly problematic. i think it's very one-sided. i think there are many other countries that could have been rightly criticised for the same things and even worse violations, and i think frankly that the egyptians should have been given the opportunity to show progress instead of constantly being on the backs of this parliament.
