the rapporteur. - mr president, we must look at what is rational and reasonable. and in this connection two different questions have been raised. the first is the issue of electric fishing. i would remind all the honourable members that we have been working on this dossier for 21 months, with 77 meetings and a request to postpone the vote in committee in june, which was accepted. we postponed it to september and we postponed it to october. the vote was due to take place in december. someone suggested that we postpone the vote and we postponed it until this time. and no one at any time mentioned the first issue raised today to postpone the vote: the issue of electric fishing. i mean, we've had all that time. but what is being raised today is the reproach that the commission lifted a ban in 2006, that is to say 12 years ago. of course, that does not mean that we cannot debate today and vote tomorrow. if mr omarjee, as he has said, is absolutely against it and considers it an aberration, he has the possibility of voting against that article and the matter is settled. obviously, simply wanting to reproach the commission for doing something in 2006 is not a reason to postpone the vote. and, mr president, as regards the amendments, the same article to which mr verhofstadt refers states that if, after being returned to committee, those amendments - 92 amendments plus requests for separate votes - were to receive more than one third of the votes, they would be retained for a vote in the plenary. i mean, i think that, since about 80% of the amendments were approved or rejected by 12-12, 13-13, 13-12, 14-12, in any case, the bulk of those amendments would go back to the plenary because they would have exceeded a third of the votes. i mean, we're not getting anything. electric fishing has been used as an excuse for some groups who were not satisfied or were not happy with the outcome of the vote in committee to use the formula of introducing many amendments to change the text. i think, mr president, that there is not a single reasonable argument, because there is nothing new in the reasons put forward for postponing the text. i ask that the debate and the vote be held tomorrow.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me be clear: europe is playing its credibility with the world on the energy standards we are starting to debate today. two years ago in paris, we committed to fighting climate change, the greatest threat the world has ever faced. and in that fight, it's vital to drive an energy model shift, decarbonize the economy and shift to a sustainable model that pivots on renewable energy. the european parliament is therefore obliged to honour the word given to europe, the word given by europe to the world, by committing us to promoting a new energy model based on renewable sources. more, if you will, after the denialist trump has pulled the united states out of the paris agreement. and we have to do it ourselves. we have to do it here, now. the commission has fallen short of its ambition and the council has opted for stagnation, if not for retrogression. europe cannot be left with empty words, with grand rhetorical statements without a firm political commitment to curb climate change. climate change is knocking on our doors every day, hitting us deadly. we must act now, and act decisively. i would therefore like to thank the alternative rapporteurs for the work they have done to achieve the agreement we have put forward here today in the proposal we are debating. an agreement whereby we raise the renewables target to 35% with strengthened national obligations in the governance regulation. we strengthened legal certainty and prevented the adoption of retroactive measures. we protect self-consumption as a right without burdens, tolls or fees that impede its development. we're bringing more ambition to the heating and cooling sector for greater penetration of renewables. and we're betting on decarbonizing transportation, encouraging electromobility, freezing first-generation biofuels and pushing advanced ones, as well as excluding palm oil. the international renewable energy agency has calculated that the european union can double its renewables share from 17% in 2015 to 34% in 2030 in a cost-effective way. unfortunately, it seems that the member states are still blind to this reality, in the light of the position adopted by the council last month. maintaining, as the council maintains, a 25% renewables target is unambitious. it is also counterproductive and irresponsible. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. i therefore call on parliament to send a strong, unambiguous and loud message in favour of renewable energy, so that no one can doubt that this house will not allow any carelessness in our commitment to climate change. we have the power of the citizen's vote to change things. let's work it out. responsibly, but let's exercise it. i know that there are many interests at stake, but there is one interest that must prevail over all others: the interest of the future of the planet, the interest of our lives.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, european energy policy is not just a european matter. if we really want to be a sustainable and supportive continent, the energy we consume in europe cannot have negative effects on other countries: on the rights of its farmers and indigenous peoples, on human rights, on the environment and on animals. to do this, the european union must eliminate agrofuels from its energy mix. we don't want palm oil in our cars, but we also don't want any first-generation fuel that competes with food production for people. we also regret that the report on renewable sources has not included the recommendation of the committee on development. social sustainability criteria are needed to avoid land grabs and also sustainability criteria on forest biomass to avoid deforestation in third countries. clean energy, solidarity and global justice must go hand in hand.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank mr blanco for his work, because it has been really intense, with so many amendments as have been tabled. unfortunately, we see how the commitment made by the european union in the paris agreement to reach 100% renewable energy by 2050 can be reduced to a blank page. parliament is more ambitious than the commission, but the 35% target for 2030 is also insufficient if it is not accompanied by binding national targets. but we are already seeing the council's lack of political will. without binding targets, few countries will make a firm commitment and encourage the necessary investments in clean energy. in addition, setting a 12% target for transport will add to existing problems by boosting the use of biofuels, which means land accumulation and deforestation. and all this with an increase in carbon emissions. if we do not create the basis for another energy model that is not in the interest of the market, we will have lost time that is essential to reverse climate change and its serious consequences for the planet and its inhabitants.
mr president, the clean energy package represents the european union's contributions to the paris agreement on climate change. and in paris we saw, firstly, the commissioner for climate action and energy, arias cañete, and secondly, also the governments of the european union taking the picture. but the fight against climate change is decided with deeds and not just photos saving whales. it takes commitment. in this house, the epp has worked hard to ensure that there is no legislation binding on the member states. they've chosen to breathe smoke. for example, in renewables, binding targets have been dropped, even though this worked for the 2020 targets. fortunately, however, in the area of energy efficiency, the alternative majority has been adopted and has allowed this to happen. to be ambitious in energy is to want what is best for europe in the fight against climate change. and that is that energy is also a common good and necessary for people and not everything is market, market and market. one in four people in the european union suffers from energy poverty while energy is wasted and while public money is used in megaprojects for large energy companies.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing today three proposals which are crucial to meeting europe's energy and climate commitments linked to the agreements on emission reductions: a 27% renewable energy target, a 40% energy efficiency target and an energy policy coordination framework as a necessary instrument to ensure compliance with these targets. the objectives are ambitious and reasonable, and they are achievable if we choose the appropriate instruments to achieve them. in spain we consider the following instruments to be essential. firstly, interconnections, in order to meet the renewable energy target. it is important that the council's agreements to reach 10% by 2020 and 15% by 2030 are fulfilled. look, commissioner, at the beginning of the century, when mrs loyola de palacio was commissioner, 10% of interconnections were agreed. eighteen years have passed and we have done nothing. i hope that in the years that remain to meet these objectives this time they are actually met. and secondly, the protection of investments already made to produce biofuels before 2020. 7% of first generation biofuels must be maintained.
mr president, i appreciate the work of the rapporteurs on this crucial dossier and i congratulate them, but the truth is that in my home country, aragon, mines are being closed and the beard is growing, and those who opted for renewables have also ended up ruined. commissioner, how are we going to ensure a just transition for the regions and families who live precisely on coal and biomass? because i am absolutely in favour of combating energy poverty, but also the poverty of the unemployed and the excluded, because, in pursuit of such ambitious objectives as to force a deadly leap forward, as deadly as we remember what we did in the automobile sector, territories and families are thrown into total uncertainty, while neither new jobs nor certainties arrive. what funds, commissioner, are we going to use to ensure that transition is just, if we hear that in the new multiannual financial framework post-2020 cohesion and agriculture are going to be sacrificed? what specific fund can you guarantee this? we need, of course, a just transition with sufficient funding, both to make it credible and for new jobs, and also with sufficient flexibility in the energy mix so that, while the utopia in which we believe comes, the old-fashioned ones do not continue to win: now in monopoly, the nuclear-based power stations.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the important debate we have had. i would also like to thank all the individuals, groups, associations, ngos and industry with whom i have spoken over this period in an attempt to forge an agreement based on the two premises that have been set out here, namely ambition and realism. ambition and realism is the proposal we have on the table. and i want to say something with all clarity in the face of some doubt. decarbonisation is not a drag on the economy. on the contrary, it is a factor of growth, competitiveness, job creation and quality employment. and we must make this commitment now, because, as a parliament, as a representative of the citizens, we have an appointment with history, which is to make a firm commitment to combat climate change. and having heard the council's proposal, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to call for a much stronger and clearer vote on parliament's proposal to overcome the obstacles we still have to achieve this objective of committing ourselves to clean energy, to commit ourselves to renewable energy. i know that we all have nuances, we all have national interests, we all have something to do with some sector that is very important in our country, and we have doubts. but we cannot afford to be uncertain about the challenge ahead. we can't go along with deniers like trump, who deny what we have on top of us. we must look up and we must respond as a parliament to this historic appointment. i would like to thank all of you, mr kelly, mr turmes, mr henkel, mr federley, mr tamburrano, mrs paloma lópez bermejo and all the other rapporteurs for the great work you have done. may that great work tomorrow be met with a resounding vote.
in writing. – the governance regulation is the umbrella legislation of the winter package, covering all dimensions of the energy union, and a vital foundation for achieving the overall objectives of the energy union and the eu targets set out in the sectorial legislation for renewable energy and energy efficiency. it is the backbone of the winter package, which will drive the transition to a renewables-based and energy-efficient economy. to deliver in an accountable and robust way, it is extremely important to have a strong and ambitious governance system in place that will bring about legal certainty and predictability for investors, beyond 2030. this is vital to unlock investments in all sectors, to avoid stranded assets and to increase the eu’s credibility in delivering in a coherent and effective manner the goals of the paris agreement. governance is the key for businesses, for citizens, for the climate, for our future. the eu needs to demonstrate it is serious about the energy transition and turn its commitments under the paris agreement into concrete actions.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, my first words must necessarily be to thank all those who have worked during this time so that we are finally debating this important dossier today, often from totally different points of view, but always in a very constructive spirit. it has been almost 21 months of work, 77 meetings and many, many hours of debate with the commission, the council, fishermen, ngos and all those who have wanted to join this challenge. because it is a challenge to deal with a dossier such as the technical measures regulating how, when and where fishermen can operate, which has already had two failed attempts at revision. and this challenge is complicated when we want a regulation to encompass more than 30 provisions, some of which are based on legislation dating back to 1998 and which has become over time a complex, impractical and very rigid system of rules. but there is no doubt that technical measures need to be revised. and there is no doubt that it is necessary and urgent to try to do so soon, as brexit is approaching, but also the end of this parliamentary term. my aim, and i think everyone's, was to simplify, not to reinvent the rules, but to make them more understandable and workable for operators and administrations, through regionalisation and results-based management, which gives greater flexibility to fishermen and brings decision-making closer to the regions and local specificities, while maintaining the guidelines, so that we offer the sector equal conditions and rules adapted to the reality of each fishery and each sea basin, and so, at the same time, the institutions of the european union do not lose control of the most important features of the technical measures. i believe that all these objectives are reflected in the commitments we have made, in which we have taken account of the hard work that the commission has maintained with the council for a long time, and that is why i ask that during the vote we maintain the commitments in the terms in which they were adopted by the commission. that is precisely why i think - because a lot of work has been done and i think that the package of commitments is very well balanced. as regards the objectives, which are of concern to the commission and to us as well, the commitment i proposed and which was adopted in the committee on fisheries is ambitious and balanced. it includes a progressive reduction in catches of small fish as the main objective of future technical measures legislation, leaving member states or the commission, if member states do not adopt the joint recommendations within a limited timeframe, with the best possible advice to establish key fisheries. and if the reduction in juvenile catches is not accompanied, as some people claim, by a percentage of specific figures, it is not because of a lack of ambition, but because of the need to be more pragmatic and to take account of the realities of each fishery in a given basin. regionalization will play a key role in the setting of quantifiable targets and the commission will not be a stranger to this process. instead of an arbitrary or symbolic figure, the commitment seeks tailor-made objectives, based on science and operations, adapted to each fishery. the commission states that the absence of a quantified objective will create unequal situations in the various basins of the european union. i think the main thing is to set realistic targets because there is no greater injustice than to impose the same rules for different situations. finally, a new front has been opened in recent days, which has polarized positions and created divisions in the various groups. the commission has tried to paralyse the dossier and monopolise the debate, leaving aside very important issues, only around electric fishing. there are those who try to think back to 12 years ago and change what was done then. i think it is a controversial subject, and there are defenders and detractors, but, apart from maximalist positions, the amendment or compromise that is being offered is a compromise which i sincerely believe meets the objectives.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank mr mato for his work and nils torvalds, who cannot be here. i would say, in relation to this report, that scientific evidence cleverly combined with the pragmatism needed by industry must drive this necessary review of technical measures for the protection of fisheries ecosystems. achieving maximum sustainable yield from the activity requires both a shift away from utopia and a recognition that the fishing activity, including its professionals, must also be considered part of the system that must be protected. the complexity, dispersion and contradictions of the standards we are reviewing have their origin precisely in a partial view based on one or the other sensibility. the scientists support the establishment of a percentage of juvenile catches and a time limit for reaching it, with the possibility of regional adjustments if they are justified by data, as proposed in my group's amendment. by innovating, it is possible to increase selectivity. there is no better incentive to progress in the creation of new fishing gear and techniques than by setting prudent objectives. in this connection, and for the same reasons, i am inclined to maintain the current status quo of electric fishing, i.e. a four-year trial period for up to 5% of the fleet, but including the north sea and guaranteeing access to vessels for scientists, prohibiting the use of additional accessories such as shells and checking that discards are reduced, reporting areas, catches and voltages. i also support measures which reflect the diversity of fisheries, but always under a common framework, that of the objectivity of technical studies and under the supervision of the commission.
mr president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur on his efforts to seek compromises and on his attitude to a permanent dialogue with the sector. as a galician, i am very grateful for this closeness and willingness to dialogue. after several failed attempts in recent years to simplify the more than 30 pieces of legislation that exist, it is now necessary for the european institutions to review and consolidate this legislation in this legislature. fishermen need to know what to expect in this important area and i believe that regionalising decisions on the size of nets and setting targets to reduce catches of species below minimum sizes is the right way forward. in this way decisions can be adjusted to the reality of the different fisheries, since in my view the commission's initial proposals for these two batteries did not take sufficient account of the real situation of these fisheries and did not have the necessary scientific backing. i repeat that regionalisation is the right solution. it is halfway between the existing disparate positions.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all of you for your interventions and your valuable views. i have taken due note of this very interesting debate. on a positive note, we all agree on the need to have this review of the technical measures, which is a very good start. let me now turn to some of the specific points raised by member states. the first point that i would like to make is that parliament has focused on electro-pulse fishing, and this is also a good discussion. however, we should not lose sight of the other important elements contained in the proposal, as well as other problematic amendments. whilst the commission is aware of the concerns being expressed regarding pulse fishing, it is important that we all recall and keep an eye on the broader perspective as well. mr affronte and ms briano spoke on the issue of regionalisation, and obviously we are all in favour of regionalisation, but in this specific case an amendment introduces the possibility of regionalising the specific rules governing the use of different mesh sizes, for example. in practice, there would no longer be a common objective across union waters. one comment with regards to croatia, which wants to have a special derogation for purse seine nets. this goes against a well-established rule from the 2006 mediterranean regulation, and allowing for a derogation would undermine conservation standards in the adriatic. with regards to the turkish coastguard issue that to mr marias mentioned, i will look into this and come back to him as well. a number of you, and mr ricardo in particular, have mentioned the issue of targets and quantitative targets. what i have to say is that the concept of quantitative targets introduced in the commission proposal is a new approach and is intended to allow for the concept of results-based management and accountability by the operators. this was proposed to deliver simplification and flexibility to amend technical regulations at a regional level while retaining oversight through the setting of quantitative of objectives. this would avoid the need to prescribe and micro-manage the specific details of how, where and when a fisherman operates by focusing on the outcome. the alternative proposed by the committee on fisheries (pech) would mean that quantitative reductions are set by different regional groups, and this could lead to a differentiated approach and divergent standards across sea basins. as i said, most of the speakers spoke about pulse fishing, and we note the concerns raised by a number of meps, as well as ngos outside this house, regarding the use of pulse fishing. our proposal lifts the current capacity limits on the number of vessels that can use the technique, but we have proposed to limit its use to the southern north sea, in line with existing provisions. contrary to what mep hookem said, we do have independent scientific assessments, and according to our independent scientific assessments, the conventional way of fishing by beam trawling has proven to have a negative impact on the ecosystem. thus, it is important to remember what pulse fishing would be replacing, and that is traditional beam trawling. if properly controlled and applied, i underline these words, electric pulse simulation may offer a more ecologically benign alternative way of fishing by reducing unwanted by-catch, reducing seabed damage and lowering co2 emissions. following independent scientific advice, the commission has retained the geographical limitations. .. (mr jadot interrupted and president intervened)so that this fishing technique can only be used in the southern north sea. i could not accept the comment by mr jadot, where he said that i was lying. i can assure you that lying is not in my nature and that i have no interest whatsoever in doing so. if i am lying, that means that our scientific advice is lying as well. in its advice of 2012, the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries (stecf) concluded that most ecological concerns raised by the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices) have been adequately addressed. subsequently, advice from ices in 2016 concluded that – and i will quote – conventional beam trawling has significant and well demonstrated negative economic ecosystem impacts. if properly understood and adequately controlled, electric power stimulation may offer a more ecologically benign alternative and could reduce fishing mortality on more targets species. this is not what i am saying, that is what our independent scientific advice is saying. let me reiterate, it is of the utmost importance that in order to move away from the current complexities of technical rules in return for a less prescriptive and results-oriented approach, it is important and it is essential that we retain common measures and objectives. secondly, it is essential that we do not go back on our commitments under the common fisheries policy to reduce unwanted catches and prohibit discards, as this was a central element of the common fisheries policy that we all signed up for. in the spirit that mr kelly mentioned, i look forward to further working with the parliament in a good spirit of cooperation, and hopefully we can take this file forward.
the rapporteur. mr president, thank you very much to all those who have supported us and those who have not. in any case, it is very difficult to answer all of them in two minutes, but i would like to say that there is something i share with the commissioner. unfortunately, mr commissioner, electric fishing has completely distorted this debate. there are very important things in this file, even more important or let's say the same. but, of course, i sincerely believe that he has gone astray, and i deeply regret it. i would simply like to say, without passion, that i think the proposal we have put forward is balanced, that it is not an arbitrary decision, but that it will be based on scientific studies in any case. and, dear commissioner, as many times as i say we're going to eliminate the targets, it's not true. the targets are not going to be eliminated. we eliminate the objectives that were quantified in advance, subjectively and without a criterion. and we have eliminated those, because, although you say that good management will be called into question, i believe in good management coming from regionalisation. you assume that the states and regions will not adopt the regulations themselves well. i think they're gonna do well. and, of course, regionalization is not anarchy, as has been said here. there will be measurable goals, commissioner. you know that. and they will be in a year's time if you agree, or in a year plus six months if you do not and the commission itself will do it. but these will be targets that take account of the specificities of each fishery and each basin. is that bad? i think you were betting on regionalisation, but less, now less. and as for the size of the grid, what they wanted was to end the status quo, to radically change what was there overnight. and we continue to bet on that because of regionalization: different basins, different fisheries. and you did too and you have been working with the council for many months along those lines. and then all of a sudden, everything changed. what's worked, no longer works. commissioner, we're going to work in the future, and we're going to do it right. and i'm sure we can come to some sort of arrangement. and i just end it. you have to make the compromises. we all gave in. let's take a vote. let's support him. the fishermen want new technical measures that can be used, that are regionalised. and it's our duty not to let them down.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, again i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, linnéa engström, and her team for the excellent work, and i would like also to thank the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and its rapporteur, ms vălean, for its opinion. the commission proposal transposes into eu law the conservation control and enforcement measures adopted by the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation, to which the european union is a contracting party. this is a challenging file because of the high number of conservation measures adopted under the sprfmo since 2012. the commission welcomes most amendments proposed by the european parliament’s committee on fisheries (pech), as they clarify some of the obligations in its initial proposal. however, the commission is not in a position to support the amendments relating to (a) the provisions to promote artisanal small-scale fisheries, and (b) the definition of ‘fishing vessel’ and ‘iuu fishing’, for the following reasons. firstly, the provisions on artisanal and small-scale fisheries (i’m referring to amendments 1 and 12) are inspired by the recent transposition of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) recommendations. however, the fisheries’ characteristics and geographical context is not the same in the sprfmo, where the eu fleet fishing is composed of industrial long-distance factory vessels, including some of the most modern and largest fishing ships in the world. in addition to that, the sprfmo convention area does not include the eezs, which are the areas where traditional and artisanal fisheries operate. the european union fleet fishes solely in the high seas and does not have access to the adjacent eezs and even less to the territorial waters. therefore the eu fleet fishing in sprfmo is unable to promote coastal fishing activities and techniques. secondly, the pech committee proposes, in its amendment 5, the use of the definition of ‘fishing vessel’ from the sprfmo. the commission considers that we should avoid a multiplication of definitions of ‘fishing vessel’ used in different eu legal texts with already-existing definition in the control regulation and in the eu iuu regulation. the preference should be then to keep the definition used under the european union iuu regulation, which is the one used in the commission proposal. thirdly, as far as the definition of ‘illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing’ is concerned (and i am referring to amendment 10), the european parliament proposes to refer only to point 1 of article 2 of the iuu regulation. however, it is better to refer to the entire iuu regulation in order not to lose the individual definitions of ‘illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing’ foreseen in its article 2. the sprfmo transposition regulation will also allow a faster and more efficient implementation of future sprfmo conservation measures, thanks to the derogation of certain well-framed powers to the commission. i strongly support this practical approach as it will allow the union to deliver on its international obligation towards the regional fisheries management organisations in a timely manner, providing certainty to member states and a level playing field for operators. let me assure you that the commission will continue working together with the regional fisheries management organisations to ensure better ocean governance and more sustainable fishing. thank you for your attention and for tabling this important regulation for debate, and i look forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, i would like to thank mrs engström for her constructive attitude. we are looking at the transposition of the 15 measures adopted by the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation since its creation in 2012. i have to say that i think transpositions should be as faithful as possible. we must not introduce new elements which could place our fleet under a different level of pressure, that is to say, under stricter rules of play than those applied to other fleets in the same area. equal treatment must be guaranteed. our fishermen do not want to be discriminated against by their competitors in the same fishing areas. they wouldn't understand why the change. this is the basic principle which has inspired my group in our work in the committee on fisheries on this dossier: to achieve - and i believe we have generally achieved this - a faithful, clean transposition, that is to say, without new elements or additions. the environmental dimension is very important, but so is the economic and social dimension. our standards are aimed at the fishermen and we should give them standards they can comply with, but also standards they can understand. and discrimination, a transposition that does not take into account this necessary equality, they would not understand.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs engström, for her work and her cooperation. the report aims to incorporate into the community acquis the international law adopted by the south pacific regional fisheries management organisation. as usual, we have followed the principle of not adding specific measures for european vessels in this work. the community fleet will thus operate under the same conditions as those of third countries in the same fishing scenarios. i also support and welcome the inclusion of two contributions to sustainability. the first adds guarantees to ensure that the total ban on the use of gillnets and large-scale driftnets is respected. although no european vessel uses these devices in the area under the control of this organization, i think it is very useful to oblige the member states to control their vessels when they cross this area with these types of devices on board. the second encourages member states to promote selective coastal fishing activities, including techniques used in traditional and artisanal fishing, to contribute to a decent standard of living for local coastal communities.
mr president, commissioner, i would naturally like to congratulate the rapporteur and the other rapporteurs on their work and, having intervened in the previous debate, i am happy to say that it has been conducted without any major upheavals and without any elements of controversy, which i am glad of. perhaps one, concerning small-scale fishing, and i share the commissioner's position despite what has finally been left in the report. i simply want to point out a point which i have repeated many times: i think it is good that the recommendations are applied or adopted to the letter, as they come. it is something i have been saying for a long time, because it is healthy and it is convenient, and it must remain so. and on the other hand, i would like to reiterate something that the commissioner has also heard me say many times: it cannot take that long to implement the recommendations of the regional organisations. in this case, we're talking almost five years. i think that's enough time to have transposed them. it is not a lot, 15 recommendations, and i really think that the time limit is excessive.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, madam commissioner, i think it is clear that the regulation worked well and was a good measure to help a country in difficulty. the only thing that is true is that there has been a lack of coherence in the european commission over the years, because while greece was being helped through cohesion policy, which was rightly so, it was also being forced into draconian adjustment programmes that were stifling it. and so, there was a total lack of coherence that must be pointed out. however, cohesion policy played its part: the measures taken were good; the data it has given us on the absorption capacity of the projects financed are absolutely good - the ones it has presented to us. and i must also say, with regard to the doubts that some colleagues have about whether or not greece has used these funds well, that there must be evidence to make these allegations. and the ones we have, given to us by the european commission, are good and they are the ones we have to stick to. i would therefore like to point out that cohesion policy must be continued as it has been in greece up to now and that we must continue to help those countries in difficulty when necessary.
madam president, after hurricane katrina, in the united states, two-thirds of the people who lost their jobs were women. during the terrible heat wave of 2003, which claimed thousands of lives in france, a large majority of the deaths were also women. climate change affects men and women differently across the planet. that is why i am pleased that for the first time a report on climate justice and gender equality is being adopted, on the initiative of my political group, the european greens. women can and should play a crucial role in climate policy. this is essential to put the focus on gender when talking about decision-making, financing and investment on climate change, fighting deforestation, agriculture, education, access to energy and entrepreneurship in the energy transition. equality and ecology are two sides of the same coin.
madam president, we hear that we are in a phase of economic recovery, but the reality is that workers do not see its effects on job creation. on the contrary, it creates precariousness and insecurity by losing jobs. this is the situation in the province of jaén and in towns like linares, the city with the highest unemployment in spain in the province with the highest unemployment in spain. industry has been destroyed and workers at companies like aeroepoxy composites struggle every day to keep their jobs. added to this is a communication isolation due to the abandonment of the railway. the consequences of the neoliberal policies that are being adopted are unemployment, depopulation, inequality. but this situation can be reversed by setting up an integrated territorial initiative with european funds and the participation of the different social partners, which will serve to generate an industrial production model, recover the railway and strengthen the agri-food sector. in short, to create quality jobs. jaén, linares and its people - our people - have a future. and it is our duty as europeans to contribute to that.
madam president, whenever we ask the european commission a question about the situation in catalonia, we are told that they have great confidence in rajoy. well, in our country, in catalonia, it's not like that. in the catalan elections, imposed by rajoy, his party came last, with fewer votes than the anti-capitalists, despite the fact that it was their elections, despite the fact that they illegally took over our institutions, despite the fact that many lies were invented, for example, about our economy, and despite the fact that we had candidates in prison and in exile, which is a real european scandal. despite all this, rajoy and his allies - and i should also say the commission - continue to clash with reality: that in the parliament of catalonia, elected with the largest participation in history, there is still a majority in favour of the catalan republic. supporting rajoy is supporting failure, it is supporting state nationalism which sees itself as having carte blanche to threaten basic rights, the state nationalism which european integration should curb. to continue with this attitude is a failure for the whole of europe.
madam president, in the midst of a state of emergency, elections to the catalan parliament were held on 21 december. the pro-independence forces won again with an absolute majority, despite having eight candidates in jail or in exile, a democratic aberration. this shows at least two things. first, that the strategy of the government and the rajoy judges is not working and that it is an absolutely ineffective strategy, besides being miserable. secondly, that the government and the rajoy judges are focusing on formalities on whether the winning candidate, president puigdemont and the other seven elected prisoners can go to parliament or not. the real gravity is not the physical presence of the chosen ones, but their situation. they are in exile or in prison, without trial and without any criminal justification, and the state of emergency will continue. how long will the european institutions and this parliament be complicit in the repression in catalonia by their silence and even their applause? it is a shame that in these circumstances we dare to talk about a better future for europe.
mr president, mr tusk, mr juncker, i am glad to see that the eu leaders agreed last december to do more in the field of education and culture. apparently, i am the first one to focus on that. they established some priorities; however, i am afraid that they – and that we – are still living under the idea that education and culture are matters related to programmes and studies which end with a diploma. it should not be so. education has to start at an early age. to our children and young people, we have to partner titles on theoretical topics with, above all, practical values. indeed, education and culture have to do with civilisation. for us, civilisation means european civilisation, which is not yet totally constructed, and which means having a better europe, with dialogue, critical thinking, a love for science and art, and respect for living creatures and for nature. to achieve this, we first of all urgently need to write and publish an agreed and rigorous history of europe, which should contain successes and failures in european history. this demands knowledge, ability and time. once we have historical knowledge, the rest will probably be better mutual understanding. this is civilisation. is this what the eu leaders were seeking last december?
mr president, mr tusk, i will remind you of a phrase you said at the council meeting: 'stopping illegal immigration is the first thing'. i had occasion to criticise that statement harshly at the last partsession. i am glad that i am here today to tell you directly: you see, mr tusk, the best way to combat exclusionary nationalism, populism, is not to copy their messages. you have said one more thing, which shows that you do not understand very well even the policy that the commission has put in place. you said that member countries agree that relocation is not the solution to illegal immigration. of course not, mr tusk, because relocation is designed for refugees. so let's see if we can approach the whole debate on migration with a little bit more consistency and a little bit more solidarity and political intelligence. here we have called for a comprehensive approach to migration, we have called for an end to ad hoc solutions and we have called for compliance with international law, which says that refugees have the right to be protected in european countries. so i suggest, first, that you listen to us a little more and, second, that this new message that you have launched is the message that will remain for the coming months. because, you see, we are losing prestige, prestige as an institution - the european union as a whole - precisely because of statements like these and because of unsound policies like the ones you are defending, against what the european commission is trying to do. and one final thought, mr. president: you see, mr. donald trump just dropped a humanitarian, political and security bombshell, claiming that he's going to stop funding the palestinian refugee agency. i ask you, mr tusk, to take this into account in order to balance it out, because the last thing we need is to leave the most vulnerable palestinians even more abandoned.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the british people must know that we are not happy about their departure. the european union loses some of its essence with the departure of the united kingdom. that is why we can say here today that it is our will to achieve the best possible agreement for both sides. so that on the morning after 19 march the european union has lost a partner but retained a friend and an ally. during 2017, europeans have also become aware of our security. the permanent structured cooperation in defence, which was launched last year, is already a european milestone and one of which my country, spain, is proud to be an integral part. the last european council of the year also had the opportunity to discuss issues which are fundamental to me: the social dimension, education and culture. europe means progress and equal opportunities. it means common values and shared principles. it means solidarity with those who are going through hard times, whether it's because of the economic crisis or the refugee crisis. it means greater awareness of the environment and the protection of our natural heritage. in short, ladies and gentlemen, the europe of the 21st century will have to be more social or it will not be. if we want a future of opportunity, progress and well-being for future generations, let us start investing in it.
mr president, we have spent a very important part of this legislature denouncing the paralysis of europe, alerted by the rise of populism, concerned by major crises such as the refugee crisis, and i believe that it is time to be courageous and to understand that fundamental reforms are needed for the european union. because we need a reform of the euro area that focuses on achieving economic and social convergence and that translates into fair and equal growth. because we need a social pillar - as the european social democrats have been advocating - that guarantees workers' rights, that guarantees decent wages and fair pensions. because we need a strong union budget, one that can tackle new policies such as defence and cooperation, but one that does not allow for cuts in fundamental policies such as cohesion and agriculture. and i want to point out one thing. we are here with all three institutions. the three men who preside over the european institutions - the parliament, the council and the commission - have set the priorities for 2018, forgetting about gender equality policies: fighting the wage gap is not a priority, gender violence is not a priority, reconciliation is not a priority. it is a very worrying omission, because we have left out half the european voices, half the european souls, half the european hearts: women. we will be here to remember it and to be the voice of your conscience.
mr president, mr president of the european council, mr donald tusk, the agenda of this succession of councils is apparently getting wider and more complicated, to the point of finally having a word on social europe and even on erasmus+. but it is not acceptable that it should do so at the cost of the outstanding problems not being solved, let alone dissolved, as is the absolutely unacceptable case of the failure of migration policy. not a word, not a thought about changing the migratory routes in the mediterranean. because they are declining on the libyan coast, but they are dramatically increasing the pressure, with the tragic result, yesterday, of the death of seven migrants on the coast of lanzarote. but above all, the european council's conclusion says nothing but that we must reflect on the obstacles to the achievement of the stated objectives in the field of migration. shall i tell you why? because the demands of this parliament are not being met. because you do the exact opposite. because it persists in the recognition of impotence vis-à-vis non-compliant countries and fails to address a comprehensive policy - as this parliament demands - on migration, which takes account not only of the social dimension of aid at the source, but also of the fundamental right of refugees and of international humanitarian law in the protection of people who reach our shores.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
i have the feeling, and i am not defending anything indefensible, that we are managing the times properly. but, in any case, your opinion is very respectable. - after the vote on amendment no 240:
i have no problem with that, but this is a decision you have to make.
mr president, i would like to ask you exactly the same thing as you have just been asked, but in spanish. i think we would save a lot of time if we went straight to voting everything electronically, given the situation of practical equality.
if you agree, you will understand that it makes my job a lot easier when we vote electronically, because we naturally avoid having to weigh the votes of one or the other. - after the vote on amendment no 253:
mr president, i have a doubt about amendment no 252. the amendment is a committee amendment, not a group amendment, and therefore, in the event of a tie, i understood it to be approved and not rejected, but i do not know if i am wrong.
it is exactly the same whether the amendment comes from the committee or from any group. when it comes to an amendment, if there is a tie, it would be rejected. if it were, however, the original text would be adopted. that's the difference when a tie occurs in these cases. - after the vote on amendments nos 305 and 355:
i can tell from the reaction of the honourable members that it is preferable to continue as we have been voting. - after the vote:
the rapporteur. mr president, in accordance with the rules of procedure, i am intervening to ask the house to refer the report back to committee to open interinstitutional negotiations.
we have now reached the end of the voting period.
mr president, when we say that we want sovereignty, we mean real and effective popular sovereignty in the management of our fisheries resources, based, of course, on criteria of sustainability, equity, social justice and transparency. in spain we have lost about four thousand fishermen in the last five years, simply because article 17 of the common fisheries policy is not being complied with in my country. in this case, we're clear. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not affected by the current crisis. the commission has also taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not affected by the current crisis. the european union cannot succumb to the pressure of the fishing lobbies, the big fishing companies. he can't do it today, he can't do it tomorrow. these big companies don't do sustainable fishing or take care of the sea. all they care about is short-term economic gain. ladies and gentlemen, it is time to take decisions from the sea people, thinking about taking care of this resource, which is a common good, and also thinking about taking care of those who live off it.
mr president, i think that the agreement we have just reached in this parliament to ban electric fishing is very important. i hope that the commission and the council will take note of this position of the european parliament. electric fishing is totally incompatible with the sustainability that the european institutions claim to be seeking with the cfp. but i had to abstain on this report because i think that the report we have just voted today does not make it clear enough how the traditional arts are to be preserved in galicia. i hope that the european commission will respond in the same way as it says in a letter to me that the form will be safeguarded.
mr. president, the seas have become a dumping ground. there's not a single ocean that isn't filled with plastic. in 2015, 195 countries committed to a global agreement to reduce air pollution, but we have yet to do anything globally to address marine pollution. how is that possible? it takes 450 years for this to disappear from the water (the speaker shows a plastic bottle) and the oceans are full. containers, waste, organic pollution from uncontrolled discharges of faecal and effluent waters, intensive aquaculture: these are some of the main problems affecting fisheries on the spanish coast and also on european and world coasts. in particular, they affect small-scale fisheries. a fisherman from badalona told us some time ago that he was no longer collecting anything but toilet paper, bottles and garbage from his boat's nets. his father and grandfather were fishermen. your children probably can't be anymore. we must react, and the only way to do so, the only way to fight this way of life and generate waste is to generate a way of life that precisely defends the people who care for the sea and who live from it, who are, again and again, the people who defend and fight for small-scale fishing.
mr president, climate change does not affect everyone equally. it's not the same if you're rich as if you're poor, or a drought in europe as if it's in the global south, and of course, it's not the same if you're a woman. according to united nations figures, 70 per cent of people living in poverty are women. in addition, they are usually living in vulnerable areas, exposed to the impacts of increasingly unpredictable climate change. it is therefore necessary and urgent to include women as central actors in the fight against climate change. but not from a position of victimhood, but from a position of empowerment and equality. in small ways and big ways. in spain, for example, the popular party government has set up a committee of 14 experts solely to draft the new law on climate change and energy transition. i want to denounce here these intolerable situations that continue to perpetuate power relations that undermine the possibility of moving towards climate justice. i want to call for feminist environmental policies and more women in decision-making spaces, of course.
mr president, i would like to go a little further than the report. today, 70 percent of the world's poor are women. the paradox is that it is also us, women, who can strip testosterone, who can make decisions to save the planet, who can put sisterhood at the center of politics, our way of thinking about life and solving problems. i mean feminism, the achievement that we really need to achieve to achieve true democracy, real social justice and a planet with a future. patches are not enough to combat climate change. we must change the heart of the production model, modify the sexual contract that discriminates against women and place the care economy at the centre of life. we need to produce better to consume differently, to take better care of ourselves to respect this planet that is our home. if climate change is the biggest threat we face today, the fight against it must be global and it must be feminist. let's be very clear about this today, in january 2018, the year of the women's revolution.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me start this debate with a quote: ‘building peace is like building a cathedral, brick by brick. we want to build it on solid and long-lasting foundations.’ these are the words of the secretary-general of the united nations, antónio guterres, who just visited colombia. he arrived in the country at a very delicate moment for peace and reconciliation, a moment when the enemies of peace are trying to roll back the progress that was so hard to achieve. some groups have exploited the transition in former conflict areas to kill human rights defenders and campesinos leaders. last week, the eln restarted their attacks and kidnapped an oil worker. and yet, we should not lose sight of the bigger picture. firstly, after half a century of war, farc has disarmed and turned into a political party. secondly, the truth commission has begun its work, and thirdly, the number of murders is still too high, but it is the lowest in 50 years. colombia has an unprecedented opportunity for reconciliation, growth and human development. in a fragile but hopeful context, the friends of colombia have a duty to engage even more closely, and this is what we, as the european union, are doing. part of our work is political and diplomatic. for instance, we first suspended and then removed the farc from our list of terrorist organisations. it was an essential decision, showing to the ex-fighters that indeed a new beginning was possible if they laid down their weapons and chose, of course, democratic politics instead. today, we are also following closely the suspension of talks between the colombian government and the eln, and we are constantly in touch with the group of accompanying countries. the eln’s decision to restart their attacks is unacceptable. we call on them to stop their attacks immediately, and we encourage the parties to resume talks on the extension of the ceasefire, which expired on 9 january. peace can only come from a return to dialogue towards a permanent bilateral ceasefire. during these years and months, high representative federica mogherini and special envoy for the peace process in colombia, mr eamon gilmore, have maintained close contacts with the colombian government and with farc, as well as with opposition leaders, civil society and with our partners at the un. in parallel to our diplomatic action, we are also engaged very practically in the reconciliation process on the ground. we have a particular responsibility to accompany the peace process in three areas: rural reform, the reincorporation of ex-farc guerrillas into civilian life, and the establishment of a special investigation unit in the prosecutor-general’s office to combat crime and protect activists. at the same time, our eu trust fund for colombia was established precisely to support these tasks. the fund today has a budget of eur 95 million, thanks also to the contributions of 19 member states. projects worth over 60% of the fund have already been approved. let me give you just one example of our support. the reincorporation of former fighters is one of the most delicate issues for reconciliation in colombia. some of them are moving into politics. many others are going back to school and are looking for a job. some others have a hard time in dealing with the memory of the war. in all these cases, our financial support can make a huge difference, so we have decided to start acting immediately, even before the national reincorporation plan is ready. in addition to the trust fund, we are supporting the urgent needs of the peace process through our instrument contributing to stability and peace, with an extra eur 40 million so far. for instance, we are providing financial support to the transitional justice system because, as you know, reconciliation and justice must always go hand in hand. furthermore, the instrument contributing to stability and peace could also be used to support the new special investigation unit to fight organised crime and protect human rights defenders. let me conclude on the work we are already doing to protect defenders. since so many of them began have started to be murdered, we have not just made our voice heard. eamon gilmore visited many of the areas where the killings occurred. he met with their families, with local authorities, with police and the army. we also organised field visits for the human rights group and the group of ambassadors with defenders. thanks to our programme ‘protect defenders’, several land activists and representatives of victims have received funding not only to cover attorneys’ fees and physical protection measures, but also, in the most serious cases, temporary relocation to other parts of the country. in parallel, we have continued providing humanitarian aid to people affected by violence, people who have been displaced, or to communities being confined and deprived of access to basic services, such as shelter, protection, safe water, clean water, food, healthcare, psychosocial support and education. your support, dear colleagues, will be essential to carry on this work and all our work in support of peace, reconciliation and human rights in colombia. we have decided to propose to parliament an extension of the current bilateral cooperation with colombia until 2020, and the addition of further resources. after half a century of war, it would be naïve to imagine that reconciliation could happen overnight. this last stretch of the road towards peace may be the hardest part. but it is just as important as the peace agreement itself. the people of colombia – and peacemakers such as president santos – need all our support from the european union side. they can be sure that the european union, together with the united nations, will continue to be the strongest supporter of peace and human rights in colombia, and a point of reference for all those who dream of a country finally reconciled.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, thank you very much for your words, which have very well compensated for the absence, which we regret, of mrs mogherini. i would like to begin by saying, first and foremost, that colombia, with its conduct at this time, has deserved and is deserving of the support which the european union and the international community are giving it. the european union must continue to support this process, which is undoubtedly one of the best designed in the world in terms of its precedents. during the past year, we have been responding to the essential aspects of ending armed violence and to more substantive aspects of overcoming the causes of war. the demobilization and laying down of arms in colombia was completed at a good pace. i believe that both the european union and the member states must continue to support the peace process in colombia. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the end of the conflict has led to an increase in the presence and action of the public force to ensure the safety of the populations. a unique opportunity to structurally overcome the problem of illegal crops, which is also making the dream of farmers to have their own land a reality, among many other achievements. finally, i would like to remind you that peacebuilding has been at the heart of the european union's cooperation policy with colombia since 2002. for this reason, the colombian government and the national liberation army (eln) must find some kind of solution through dialogue. the european parliament calls for the talks on the extension of the peace agreement to be speeded up to guarantee the agreements reached and the confidence building of the last three months. the various attacks perpetrated by the eln in different parts of colombia are unacceptable from every point of view and are incompatible with peace action. armed action is incompatible with dialogue. the desire for the suspension of military action to continue has been unanimous throughout colombia. a sustained improvement in the humanitarian situation of conflict-affected communities can only be achieved through a permanent ceasefire. this opportunity for peace cannot and must not be wasted, commissioner. and i know that is the commission's intention. finally, and no less importantly, we must, along with support for the peace process, be very respectful of the will of the people. and this is consistent with the support we naturally gave in the referendum, perhaps even beyond our own capacities and neutrality. unfortunately, at the next elections, the different legitimate political options will be confronted on how to achieve and achieve peace. the european union, commissioner, must unequivocally respect this debate, otherwise it would be an interference which it is not its natural place to accept in colombia and which we must respect.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what is happening in colombia is truly extraordinary. after more than fifty years of civil war, after thousands of dead, after millions of victims, they have found the way to peace. and this has allowed the whole country to have learned that wonderful lesson that gandhi gave us in his day saying, "there is no way to peace, peace is the way". this is really the greatness of this agreement that is allowing colombia to regain peace. and the equation, the agreement, essentially, is based on two bases. the first is the renunciation of violence. we must stop killing, because there is no cause that justifies killing. not one. but the second part of the agreement is to accept that those who renounce violence enter politics and can legitimately do politics. this is the basis of the agreement. and this is the greatness of what is happening in colombia. but peace doesn't come alone. this doesn't just fall out of the sky. building these processes is extraordinarily complex. there are many obstacles. and that is why we have established what i would call a political message which, unfortunately, this house will not be able to deliver today. because the socialist group wanted this debate to take place and a resolution to be adopted, but we do not know why neither the european people's party nor alde wanted a resolution so that, as two years ago, we could say today how we support peace in colombia. and that's not interfering. because we have the right to say that the electoral process does not disrupt the elections, does not disrupt the peace. and unfortunately, there is a certain political game going on in that direction. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we believe that a statement in favour of the continuation of the process, in favour of the government stepping up its measures, of the implementation of the agreements, a resolution by parliament would have been appropriate so that the european parliament and europe would remain the main actors, the protagonists of this great agreement. just like we have mr. gilmore there, just like we have the trust fund; but to keep saying that we want to implement the agreements, that we want to continue the dialogue with the eln, demanding that the eln stop killing and, at the same time, that the government continue negotiating. all this is what we want to do with a pronouncement that would have been good if this parliament had made. because that is, in my opinion, the most important political position we could take today: to demand an end to violence, once and for all in colombia, from those who still maintain it, and that the agreements be implemented and that no one in the electoral process interrupts this hope of peace forever in colombia. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. i think that politics sometimes misses these little things and, if there was any ingredient in the debate on colombia today that it did not need, it was the questioning of the groups. mr jáuregui knows that this parliamentary group has supported, without any doubt, in a strong and forceful way, the peace process in colombia right from the beginning, in the initial stages. i do not know what arrangements you have made, mr jauregui, with the institutions and officials of colombia, but i can assure you that i personally asked whether you thought it appropriate for this parliament to adopt a written resolution, and i can tell you that the answer has not been positive. have the colombian authorities told you that they needed and believed that a written resolution from this institution was urgently needed, after what we demonstrated in november?
the answer is 'blue card'. i do not question, your honour, that you support peace in colombia, because you signed a resolution with us. what i'm asking is why not do it today. and i asked the european commission - yes, mr president - and mrs mogherini and mr gilmore: is it appropriate for parliament to adopt a resolution today, before the elections? the answer has been yes! and that's why i'm sorry it's not happening.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the european union must maintain its political and economic support for the peace process in colombia. the work of the high representative's special envoy to the country, to propel the development cooperation instrument, and to maintain and increase donors to the trust fund is essential. the process is not easy, but it is moving forward and it must continue to do so in this election year. according to the information we have received from the colombian authorities and the humanitarian and non-governmental organizations working in the areas most affected by the conflict, the commission of guarantees must continue to be supported, because there are still too many victims among social leaders and human rights activists. but it is also worth noting that 103 people have been arrested for crimes against these human rights defenders and more than 50% of those responsible have been identified. it's not enough. it is essential to continue negotiating with the eln, which must declare a ceasefire, and this organisation must be integrated into the process. it is equally urgent to continue supporting the process of land reversal and the implementation of the comprehensive rural reform, which in 2007 has met its objectives. this support should allow the land reversals, already in their final phase, and the programmes for the substitution of illicit crops to produce a much fairer situation in colombian agriculture in 2018. without this expectation, the more than 100 000 credit operations for new agricultural ventures signed by small producers would not have been formalized. the implementation of this point of the peace agreement is key to its beneficial effects reaching the population most punished by five decades of violence. it is hoped that this year will be the year of the special justice for peace and the work of reparation and recognition of the victims. the european union can do a great deal in a historic year, also because the former guerrilla, the farc, has finally embraced peace and has spoken in parliament, having successfully demobilized more than 13 000 fighters. maintaining our commitment to this process means honouring our defining values and contributing to a process that promotes not only peace and security, but also economic and social development and a better distribution of wealth and prosperity. because social justice is a key element in stabilizing and strengthening peace. mr president, there is always talk of the price of peace, but we all know that no price can be paid for war.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, first of all i would like to acknowledge and commend the efforts in colombia to implement the agreements of the peace process, both in terms of legislative development, new forms of political participation and the commitment of the farc to definitively abandon arms, as certified by the united nations. there are no half-measures in this process. all our efforts must be directed towards the achievement of the agreements. the european union must support the implementation of the peace agreements again and again, and as often as necessary. peace is signed one day but it is built during a process, and in that process we have to be at all times. and i think that unanimous decision would be a positive thing today. positive and necessary. i would like to point out some elements that i think need to be addressed, such as the transparency of the trust fund. the european union trust fund must follow certain criteria and should be used to support point one of the agreements, the comprehensive rural reform, by promoting a fair land tenure policy and a gradual substitution of crops. but first of all, it must be transparent. we have to report. we have to count what is being done with the money of the european union. secondly, i would like to speak about the extremely worrying process of re-militarization taking place in the territories formerly occupied by the farc. it must be a priority to put all efforts into combating the proliferation of new paramilitary gangs, which are causing more and more murders of social leaders and peasants. if in 2016 28 percent of all human rights defenders killed in the world were colombians, in the reports of the office of the high commissioner for peace we note that in 2017 they increased by 45 percent. victims are at the heart of the agreements and must be respected, and their rights guaranteed. ladies and gentlemen, i hope that we can be present at the next elections, sending a unanimous message of support for the peace process, as i said, unanimously and regardless of the political colour and the political forces with which each one feels most represented.
on behalf of the green group, mr. president, i believe that peace in colombia is a treasure that must be preserved. we have started on a path that was very difficult and it is a historical fact, one of the few good news from the international community in recent years. it is very difficult to find in recent years historical conflicts that have been resolved and we have the historical possibility that this conflict will be resolved in a peace that is being made with a very important collective effort of colombian society, some to give up arms, others to accept that those who fought with arms can enter politics. all this has been a great collective effort and also an effort by the european union, which i have to say has played a very good role in this matter. but we can't be conformists. peace is not yet achieved, and we also know that there are enormous risks ahead: issues of the peace agreement that are not being resolved, the special justice for peace, the labour reform - which has been mentioned by many of your honourable members - the question of the reappearance of armed groups - which worries us - the helplessness of human rights defenders, things which worry us. and, above all, an electoral process in which there are also some people and some candidates who want to obstruct a course that should not be changed in any way. we must therefore give our support, both from this parliament and from the european institutions, in every way. and i have to say that i would have liked this parliament to have made a text, like the one we made last time, unanimously, in support of the peace process. and it was the best time to do it. at a time when there are doubts and difficulties, it was time to speak clearly, loudly, as we did last time. i have to regret that some group in this house is more concerned about who wins the elections than about sending this unanimous message. in any case, we must move forward and i want to urge the european commission and the high representative to carry on with mr gilmore's work, to carry on with the trust fund and not to leave this issue, which will also be one of the great victories of european foreign policy if this operation goes well.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, support for peace, harmony and reconciliation is an honourable policy. the european union has been pursuing this policy in colombia and elsewhere. in this debate it is worth recalling the dramatic appeal made to the international community by president barco in 1989 after the assassination of senator and presidential candidate galán. the european union has responded to that call with the most favourable treatment within our system of generalised preferences. this unilateral concession was followed by an ambitious bilateral agreement, the multilateral agreement, currently in force, and a visa-free regime. the commissioner recalled the importance of the inclusion of these organisations on the european union's list of terrorist organisations. it was not by chance, it was after a meeting of a delegation from the european parliament at the headquarters in los pozos, in the de-escalation zone created during the mandate of president pastrana, that the council of ministers of the european union requested it and it was accepted. terrorism is a scourge that negatively affects our societies. it is a phenomenon that affects us all equally and to which we must all respond equally. and just as we ask for the victims of terrorism in the european union to be remembered, to have dignity and justice, i believe we must allow each society to come to terms with its past. on this basis, it is incumbent on the european union and the rest of the international community - i was referring to you, commissioner, to the visit of the secretary-general of the united nations - to continue to make their contribution on the basis of the will of the colombian people, and there will be legislative elections in march and presidential elections in may. the european union must now continue to contribute generously - and i am referring to the speech by mr de grandes - to continue to support this process politically and to continue to support it economically. i am honoured, mr president, to be one of the representatives of this parliament in the european union trust fund for colombia and i would like to conclude by simply saying that the european union must continue to make its generous contribution - i insist on it - to the dividends of peace, concord and reconciliation in this great country that is colombia.
mr president, i believe that peace is indeed an objective of the european union, of its foreign policy. i do not believe that talking about peace and building peace and supporting peace in colombia is at all outside our competence. but it is true that for there to be peace, we have to overcome the electoral situation, which i think may be failing at the moment. the electoral process can stop the peace process, and that is what we must in no way accompany from here. let's not kid ourselves. the process is very complicated and has backfired in some of the legislative processes that were supposed to accompany it. we know that the differences between farc members are also growing. that the drug traffickers are out of control because of the territories they once dominated and new ones that have been freed from military or guerrilla control. social and peasant leaders are being killed; 50 of them, according to official sources. the colombian congress has not been able to fully meet the timetable for legislation deriving from the agreements, among other things because the colombian right, a part of the colombian right has not stopped putting sticks in the wheels of the process. that we need to talk about that, too. only 50% of the agreements have been implemented. and many of the outstanding ones are crucial to completing this process, which is a process which the european union has supported, is supporting and must continue to support in the immediate future. but it is true that we need the unity of the democrats, the unity of the democrats in this house as well. and so, with all due respect to the other political groups who did not want a written resolution, i do think that it would have been a powerful signal from the european democrats that a text could be used in colombia precisely to show that we european democrats are in favour of this process. i think that we should not confuse the electoral process and the electoral interests of a section of the european right with the colombian right with the essential support of this house for an exemplary process which will be decisive for the future of latin america.
mr. president, colombia is in a very critical situation, partly because the 2016 peace agreement is not being implemented, which included, among other things, guarantees of security and political participation, the reincorporation of former combatants and the establishment of an integral system of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. in 2017, there were more murders of human rights defenders and community leaders than in 2016. urgent action must be taken to dismantle the structures that have succeeded paramilitarism, because the next presidential elections may make the situation worse. human rights defenders told me here in strasbourg that they feared that it would be like guatemala, where, after 25 years of peace, the situation has not improved substantially. the international peace brigades call on the european union to redouble our efforts to protect those under threat and to support the prosecution. let us act by condemning and visiting communities. that we request information on the progress that has been made or that the colombian state should make. our support is vital.
mr. president, colombia has had 70 years of violence. violence in colombia began in 1948, with the conflict between the liberal party and the conservative party. later, he continued with the movement 19 and with the assassination of carlos toledo plata. all the peace processes in colombia have always meant victims and deaths. because there are groups that don't want to reintegrate into civilian life, among other reasons, because it's the reason for their own business. the colombian peace agreement is an imperfect agreement, it is a deal full of frustrations, but it is the only agreement, because it is a possible agreement. among the frustrations, strategic frustrations, is, for example, that the farc have kept absolutely secret what their treasure is, the treasure obtained by drug trafficking. they have also kept something fundamental secret, which makes us doubt what their intentions are, what their links are, what channels they used to market their product, the drug trade. and this is kept outside and alien to what is the peace process itself. but, again, with all these frustrations, it's the only process possible, because peace is the process and the process is peace. it is therefore clear that there will be further casualties. it is obvious that we will have frustrations, but it is inevitably clear that we have to support the democratic government of colombia and all the people and groups who want to reintegrate into political and civil life, and that the european trust fund is fundamental and that we have to be proactive in colombia. i would even say that our own contradictions, those of the european parliament, are strictly secondary to the strategic and fundamental thing, which is to support the brotherly colombian people. that is the fundamental thing: the coming elections and the hope of peace in colombia, of real peace.
mr president, the farc peace agreement with the colombian government has opened a window of hope. it's a window that's still open, but it's seriously threatened. the farc complied, but the other side is not complying. there are political, economic, judicial and military sectors which have become rich, which have committed human rights violations and which fear the end of impunity. the negative role of the attorney general's office, the prime minister, high military commanders, right-wing parties or economic sectors that continue to do their utmost to prevent the development of the agreement must be noted. political reform is still lagging behind. the peace constituencies have been sabotaged. the special justice of the peace has been emptied. rural reform is not even 5%. the amnesty law has not been applied to more than 500 prisoners. and paramilitarism is rampant. about 140 former guerrillas or social and political leaders have been killed. a clear and distinct voice must come out of this house demanding full compliance with the agreements and denouncing those who are sabotaging the peace.
mr. president, the origin of the process is law 1448, it's the starting point. i would like to congratulate president santos once again on his courage and on all the efforts he is making to implement peace. i was a witness to the referendum and many of the preambles. today we can say that colombia is on the way to ending the longest internal armed conflict in the subcontinent. i also quote guterres, but literally: "a peacebuilding process is not easy, there are imperfections, there are delays, but what was very clear to me is the total commitment of the government and the farc to peacebuilding". the agreement is progressing, implementation is being rapid. demobilisation and disarmament are progressing: more than one weapon per combatant, 52 000 hectares of illegal crops eradicated and replaced, 180 of the 673 mined municipalities have been declared mine-free. there are regulatory advances in key areas such as reintegration, safety guarantees, victims, justice and reparation, rural and social development. and this is to be done along the route the government has defined. it has defined three pillars for building a stable and lasting peace: more security, new opportunities and reconciliation and coexistence. i want to stress 'more security', because it is the essential pillar to prevent the emergence of other new armed groups. the creation of the horus plan, the 65 basic units of the ubicar and the 'blue carp' have also been important developments. unfortunately, today we must deplore the violent actions of the eln and i subscribe to the words of mrs mogherini calling for the talks to be resumed quickly, in order to ensure progress on peace and confidence building in colombia. i have supported this process from the beginning and i am aware that there is still a long way to go. it is essential that the assistance which the european union can provide through the trust fund for accompaniment - estimated at eur 95 million - be increased. stable and lasting peace will give colombia what it so deserves, the harmony it so badly needs and the internal and external confidence to definitively position itself as one of the countries in the most important economic and social sphere of the american subcontinent.
mr president, as we begin 2018, this plenary session of the european parliament wants to send a very clear message to colombia. especially this year, because it is an election year in the country, a year where we know that the peace process is going to be tense, it is going to be questioned by some, and it may even be threatened. at this moment we as a parliament want to send two messages. a message of recognition, of recognition to the political actors, to the government, to the victims and their generosity, to civil society, who are building peace from their effort and from their generosity, day after day, in colombia. and a message of support, of explicit support, as we have already done in the past, so that we can continue to walk, because there is much to be done in this peace process in the country. and it's time to also point out the steps forward and some bright spots. it is very positive that the farc are handing over their weapons, it is positive to see that the right steps are being taken to bring this world into politics, but there is still a lot to be done. much remains to be done to protect and guarantee the security of all local leaders and human rights defenders throughout the territory, especially in the interior of the country, by the state. that is necessary and more implementation is needed. and at the same time, we have to make sure that steps are taken forward in comprehensive rural reform, which is at the root of much of the conflict in colombia, and to complete the havana agreements with some agreements with the eln. the european parliament sends a clear message of political, financial, diplomatic and operational support for a peace process which is important for colombia, for the colombian people, but also for the region, for latin america and for the international community as a whole.
mr president, from eh bildu we welcome the steps that have been taken in colombia to move towards a full peace with social justice from the territories. we welcome the efforts being made to consolidate it from the united nations and we also ask the european union's special envoy to redouble his efforts. i say this because we are concerned about the lack of progress in the economic reintegration of former farc fighters and the fact that half a thousand of them are still in prison. we are also deeply concerned about the continuing harassment of social and human rights activists. humanitarian relief is urgently needed. agreements are meant to be kept. finally, we are extremely concerned that the ceasefire between the eln and the colombian government has ended and that hostilities have resumed. we urge both sides to stop their offensive action and resume the round of talks, giving priority to the adoption of a new bilateral ceasefire as a basis for advancing the peace process.
mr president, in recent years colombia has established itself as a key partner of the european union in a region like latin america, which is very close to us europeans and, of course, to the spanish, as is my case. the strength of the relationship with the european union is due to the strengthening, over the past few years, of political and cooperation ties, as well as trade ties through the free trade agreement. and i would also like to stress the importance of the abolition of short-stay visas, which has received such support from this parliament and, of course, from my political group. i am also pleased that the european union has been able to stand by colombia, accompanying and supporting the efforts of the colombian people for peace. the appointment of a special envoy and the creation of the post-conflict trust fund, initiated by the member states, including spain, are good proof of this. the conclusion of the negotiations with the farc was a historic event which put an end to more than half a century of conflict and laid the foundations for a more prosperous colombia as well, because a country in peace can unleash its full potential and this results in the well-being of its citizens, and also at the international level and in its international projection. we must continue to support the efforts being made to consolidate peace. as has been said on many occasions, it is essential that colombians, colombian citizens, should benefit from peace as soon as possible, particularly in the areas most affected by the conflict. last weekend - and it has been repeated here to the last drop - the secretary-general of the united nations, mr guterres, visited colombia. he noted, among other things, that peace building is a central objective of the colombian people. the european union must continue to accompany the process, as it has done, together with the united nations, for example in the context of the verification and implementation of the agreement with the farc. now the main obstacle to the final peace we find in the so-called eln. the attacks by the greeks, which were known to all, just hours after the ceasefire ended, are totally unacceptable. it is imperative that these terrorist acts cease soon. it is necessary to have a ceasefire as soon as possible and to resume the work of the negotiating table in quito, so that a final agreement can be reached as soon as possible. mr. president, the awarding of the nobel peace prize to president santos in 2016 was a gesture of recognition by the international community to colombia, which has suffered so much violence for so many decades. it was a source of pride for them, for colombia, but also for all of us who are friends of the country.
in writing. after fifty years of civil war, colombia has found the path to peace. the 2016 accords have two pillars: the renunciation of violence and the recognition that those who renounce it can legitimately make politics. the implementation of the agreements is complex and requires enormous effort and the will of the colombian people, its government and the farc. for this effort to bear fruit, they need the active support of the international community. such international support should have taken the form today of a unanimous resolution of this house, intended to underline that the peace process cannot be disrupted, whatever the outcome of the 2018 elections. unfortunately, that message has not been produced because the ppe, ecr and alde have opposed a debate with a resolution, considering that a written text would be an undue interference in the colombian elections. but to demand an end to violence from those who perpetrate it and the continuation of peace is not an interference, it is a right and a duty of the eu.
in writing. after fifty years of civil war, colombia has found the path to peace. the 2016 accords have two pillars: the renunciation of violence and the recognition that those who renounce it can legitimately make politics. the implementation of the agreements is complex and requires enormous effort and the will of the colombian people, its government and the farc. for this effort to bear fruit, they need the active support of the international community. such international support should have taken the form today of a unanimous resolution of this house, intended to underline that the peace process cannot be disrupted, whatever the outcome of the 2018 elections. unfortunately, that message has not been produced because the ppe, ecr and alde have opposed a debate with a resolution, considering that a written text would be an undue interference in the colombian elections. but to demand an end to violence from those who perpetrate it and the continuation of peace is not an interference, it is a right and a duty of the eu.
in writing. after fifty years of civil war, colombia has found the path to peace. the 2016 agreements have two pillars: the renunciation of violence and the recognition that those who renounce it can legitimately make politics. the implementation of the agreements is complex and requires enormous effort and the will of the colombian people, its government and the farc. for this effort to bear fruit, colombia needs the active support of the international community. such international support should have taken the form today of a unanimous european parliament resolution, intended to underline that the peace process cannot be disrupted, whatever the outcome of the 2018 elections. unfortunately, that message has not been produced because the ppe, ecr and alde have opposed a debate with a resolution, considering that a written text would be an undue interference in the colombian elections. but calling for an end to violence and for peace to continue is not an interference, it is a right and a duty of the eu.
in writing. after fifty years of civil war, colombia has found the path to peace. the 2016 accords have two pillars: the renunciation of violence and the recognition that those who renounce it can legitimately make politics. the implementation of the agreements is complex and requires enormous effort and the will of the colombian people, its government and the farc. for this effort to bear fruit, they need the active support of the international community. such international support should have taken the form today of a unanimous resolution of this house, intended to underline that the peace process cannot be disrupted, whatever the outcome of the 2018 elections. unfortunately, that message has not been produced because the ppe, ecr and alde have opposed a debate with a resolution, considering that a written text would be an undue interference in the colombian elections. but to demand an end to violence from those who perpetrate it and the continuation of peace is not an interference, it is a right and a duty of the eu.
in writing. after fifty years of civil war, colombia has found the path to peace. the 2016 accords have two pillars: the renunciation of violence and the recognition that those who renounce it can legitimately make politics. the implementation of the agreements is complex and requires enormous effort and the will of the colombian people, its government and the farc. for this effort to bear fruit, they need the active support of the international community. such international support should have taken the form today of a unanimous resolution of this house, intended to underline that the peace process cannot be disrupted, whatever the outcome of the 2018 elections. unfortunately, that message has not been produced because the ppe, ecr and alde have opposed a debate with a resolution, considering that a written text would be an undue interference in the colombian elections. but to demand an end to violence from those who perpetrate it and the continuation of peace is not an interference, it is a right and a duty of the eu.
in writing. after fifty years of civil war, colombia has found the path to peace. the 2016 accords have two pillars: the renunciation of violence and the recognition that those who renounce it can legitimately make politics. the implementation of the agreements is complex and requires enormous effort and the will of the colombian people, its government and the farc. for this effort to bear fruit, they need the active support of the international community. such international support should have taken the form today of a unanimous resolution of this house, intended to underline that the peace process cannot be disrupted, whatever the outcome of the 2018 elections. unfortunately, that message has not been produced because the ppe, ecr and alde have opposed a debate with a resolution, considering that a written text would be an undue interference in the colombian elections. but to demand an end to violence from those who perpetrate it and the continuation of peace is not an interference, it is a right and a duty of the eu.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a month ago, at the december part-session, we had a debate here on the nuclear agreement with iran, in the presence of the high representative. the commissioner has explained to us the events that have taken place, including the contact with the iranian foreign minister and some of the issues raised by some of the honourable members, such as the 120-day certification, the latest certification by the president of the united states, who has put on the table an ultimatum to the european union if iran does not meet certain conditions with regard to ballistic missiles, also with regard to greater control of inspections and of course to try to restrict its influence in the whole region - iraq, syria, lebanon or yemen. all these aspects would of course give time for another debate, but i think that the issue that unites us here today is precisely the attempt to have a critical dialogue, as the high representative said, and to have a new hearing on the situation in the region. the events in mashhad, which have spread to the rest of the country, clearly show a concern that has its roots in economic problems, in the dearth of prices, in the absence of prospects in the country and also in the human rights situation. we have already expressed our concern in these debates about the situation of minorities, the imposition of capital punishment and, above all, the situation of the opposition. in your speech, commissioner, you referred to some initial figures and we would like to ask that those figures be cross checked, because some information which has come to us tells us that instead of that number of deaths, the figures are double that. there have been many people tortured. some bodies have been returned to relatives saying they had committed suicide in prison. and we would really like to verify these disturbing and worrying figures and say that the nuclear package and the nuclear agreement are indeed going down a slippery slope, but respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms is an essential element of european union action and we should not refrain from taking an interest in these concerns. we are going to have a dialogue with some iranian parliamentarians who are coming to the foreign affairs committee. the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs is due to visit iran in february and i believe that all these facts and elements should be a manifestation of the european union's concern that human rights policy in relations with the countries with which we have relations should be duly respected.
madam president, since the beginning of the protests in iran last december, the repression has caused at least 22 deaths and about a thousand arrests, a repression which we strongly reject. protests by the iranian popular classes against the neoliberal policies of an authoritarian regime that has impoverished millions of people. we must remember that this economic situation has been aggravated by the sanctions imposed by the united states and the european union, the consequences of which, as always, are being borne by the civilian population. we want to make clear our defence of the popular mobilizations, their demands, freedom of expression and their democratic aspirations. but it is also essential to remember that the european union must respect the iranian society which is mobilizing. we must not allow its instrumentalization, neither by trump nor by anyone, because all they seek is to impose their imperial agenda, which has nothing to do with the demands of the iranian popular classes.
madam president, quite unforeseen by many outside observers, in recent weeks we have seen many iranians rising up for their rights and freedoms. these protests prove how explosive for many ordinary people in iran the socioeconomic and political situation has become. this display of public discontent should give us hope for real change towards freedom, democracy and respect for human rights. it is time for the european union to revise its policy on iran. instead of investing in the ruling political establishment as supposed moderates, who, as we have seen, many iranians no longer trust, we should invest in the young people who deserve a better future but feel abandoned by their leaders and are tired of corruption, oppression and undelivered promises. finally, the eu must make it clear to iran that any torture or execution of those arrested in the protests is absolutely unacceptable and would have serious consequences.
madam president, commissioner, in recent weeks we have seen a wave of protests in iran which has worried us all and, especially, the response in the form of repression by the regime. it must be remembered that the root, the ultimate cause of these protests has been, in this case, especially socioeconomic: frustration, lack of expectations from rural areas, from peripheral areas, and distrust towards the traditional elites of the country, something that even rouhani himself has come to assume. in this convulsive scenario, and also taking into account the conflicts in the region, it is incomprehensible to see how the us administration has decided to add fuel to the fire, to strain relations with tehran and to compromise, as we have seen in recent months, the nuclear agreement. and i want to thank the role of high representative mogherini and the voice of the european union in defending a nuclear agreement that is being implemented and that is positive not only for the iranians but also for the whole international community. and i want to send three messages. first, to iran in particular, but also to all countries in the international community: the fundamental right to peaceful protest and freedom of expression must be sacred. secondly, there is a clear and unwavering commitment on the part of the european union to this agreement that we want to continue to implement, and we reject any unilateral path that wants to renegotiate or break an agreement that, as we have said, is positive for the iranians and for the region. and thirdly, we want to continue to talk about human rights, through dialogue, with iran, and see effective and constructive improvements and progress in a country that needs it. it is time for the european union to occupy the space and the geopolitical vacuum left in the region by the united states, and iran is a clear example.
madam president, we have supported the just social demands of the workers of iran in the face of the neoliberal measures which have impoverished a large part of the population. the sharp rise in petrol prices, the elimination of necessary subsidies and the unfair distribution of wealth are incontrovertible facts that support the just struggle of the workers. at the same time, we denounce the attempt to infiltrate sectors that, using violence, seek not the improvement of the population, but the destabilization according to agendas of external interference. there are enough examples in what happened in libya or syria, which has brought chaos and war to the region. we also denounce the interference of the united states or saudi arabia, which are trying to steer legitimate demonstrations towards a violent regime change in their own interests. we demand that the government of rohan meet the popular demands and not oppose the repression of the protesters who peacefully demand social and economic rights for their people.
madam president, to this day, iran continues to openly fund terrorist organizations. it is among the countries that most apply the death penalty and denies the most basic rights to women and homosexuals. the mullahs' regime has proved incapable of offering the prospect of prosperity to the iranians, a young, vibrant people, not yet corrupted by the fanaticism of their tyrants, who expect the support they deserve from the western democracies. the european union cannot deny it without compromising its values, without compromising its very nature. the repression of recent protests has been brutal, with dozens of deaths and prisoners. i am very concerned about the fate of those arrested and accused, some of whom have died in custody at least five, according to amnesty international. the european union must monitor and demand that all are treated in accordance with international human rights conventions. moreover, europe is nothing if it does not defend european values throughout the world. if rouhani is truly an outsider, he should be showing it. we in europe must act intelligently to combine stability and peace with the democratization of the region. because democracies do not go to war: they resolve their conflicts in international forums or through dialogue. a democratic iran, or at least a more open one, would be an opportunity for all. mrs mogherini, let prudence not be an excuse for sitting still.
in writing. – iran is carrying out blatant abuses against thousands of people protesting about the poor economic performance of the country. this house is committed to defend and promote human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights inside and outside the eu, as enshrined in articles 2 and 21 of the treaty on european union. we cannot pay lip service to these values deceiving our citizens and all the people of iran hoping for a better future. iranians already fought for their rights and for better conditions in 1979, but those protests resulted in a theocratic regime; in 2018 we cannot leave them alone. even if official and semi-official sources announced that some people have been released, it is not clear how many iranians are still detained, and we will not be satisfied until everyone is freed. as a member of the european parliament, i want to strongly condemn the intolerable violations of human rights and civil liberties of the so called ‘islamic republic’. i hope that this chamber can take a unanimous position against these cruelties, and give voice to the people of iran. protesters are giving their own lives for a better future and we cannot ignore their voices.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, thank you, commissioner, i am sorry that mrs mogherini is not here today and i wish her a speedy recovery. we would like to say to you, however, that the solution lies in the european union abandoning interventionist policies, using exclusively peaceful means and not using development funds for military purposes. the european commission must work to empower the working classes by promoting their access to the means of production, natural resources and guaranteeing food sovereignty. we also believe that in kenya we must work tirelessly to end land grabbing and promote fair distribution - 98.4% of the peasantry only have 11.7% of the land available, as well as to promote access to seeds and water so that the peasants of kenya can feed their people. we believe that it is necessary to promote and support access to water and public services, such as health and education. we also believe that the european union must ensure that the somali refugees in dadaab camp, who have fled violence, poverty, drought and hunger since the us military intervention more than 20 years ago devastated somalia, are provided with security, food and decent living conditions, and work to ensure that kenya does not force their return.
madam president, the european union and kenya are preferred partners. however, it seems that we have left out some of the provisions of the cotonou agreement. while we have been promoting those representing strictly commercial interests, it seems that we have forgotten other fundamental ones. for example, to promote the fight against money laundering and tax evasion; to promote the rule of law and the judicial system; to provide financial support for food sovereignty programmes; in the field of human rights, to lobby for the development of human rights defenders programmes and to strengthen civil society. and it is worth remembering that kenya has over 600,000 refugees in a state of total neglect. finally, and as a matter of priority, we must put pressure on the government to embark on a broad and inclusive process of national reconciliation, aimed at overcoming the ethnic divisions that have broken and break villages and neighborhoods. without social justice, democracy cannot make its way.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur and the alternate rapporteurs on their excellent work and the commissioner on taking the initiative to put forward this important proposal for modernising the rules of procedure, which we have improved with the resolution and with the report of this parliament. i think we can all agree that the development of icts and surveillance software, without proper control, can put our security at risk and, of course, also facilitate repressive regimes to persecute, harass and torture opponents and human rights defenders. and of course european technology cannot allow itself to be aided and abetted by exports. i think it is essential to point out that european technology - because it lacks the appropriate regulation to control its exports - may be facilitating policies that are endangering our security and, more or less as seriously, endangering the lives of human rights defenders, journalists and political opponents who act and work against repressive regimes. that is why it is so important to modernise, improve and tighten this regulation. but we think it is important that, throughout the process and at the end of the regulation, the demands that we socialists have been making and the text as it has been approved in the committee on international trade should be maintained. it is essential to extend export control to ict and cyber-surveillance, to incorporate the human rights dimension, to include this general control mechanism to ensure that in the future unintended products can be subject to control and to ensure uniform implementation in all states. and finally, once we have this regulation, commissioner, i ask you to try the same thing you are doing with the regulation preventing trade in instruments which infringe torture or the death penalty, which is to internationalize them. it has made a great effort, it has made a great step forward and, once we have the european union regulation, we have to get it to be based on the same principles to really get rid of this kind of practice.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, it is no longer a secret that the rush to sign trade and investment treaties at any cost will have - and already has - dire consequences for many people and for the earth. first of all, i am glad that there is no longer any doubt that each of these treaties should be accompanied by a chapter on sustainable development. however, the agreements which the commission continues to propose and which some members of this house continue to vote for contain only very vague commitments: they are wet paper. and some of you will say no, that the labour and environmental clauses of the new treaties are binding. i remind them that yes, they can be called binding, but they have no sanction mechanism or anything to ensure their compliance. and this is called wet paper. do we believe in the 'trade for all' discourse? it is enough that the sustainable development chapter in the treaties is a mere decorative appendix! we need these chapters to be really enforceable; to be denounceable and to have consequences if they are violated; to be geared to punishing violations of rights themselves, and not their impact on trade. this means we need to review the warrants. finally, let us be aware of the enormous power that the european union has to shape global trade. we're gonna compete, but up, not down. and let us put human rights at the centre for once.
mr president, commissioner, i am very pleased that the commission has launched this debate, that we are having this debate here today. i think it is essential that we have a chapter on sustainable development that has the right content and that ensures its implementation. and in order to have the right content, i think it is fundamental something on which we most agree, which is the incorporation of more representatives of civil society from the beginning: in the negotiation, in the follow-up and, of course, it is also fundamental, in the evaluation of the commitments and in the litigation that may arise in case of non-compliance. but i wonder how we can better guide behaviour so that development is truly sustainable if we do not set up mechanisms based on sanctions. how could we educate our children if we didn't have both positive and negative stimuli -- not to apply them, but to avoid those unnecessary, negative behaviors? and unfortunately, there are many cases where these failures occur and we have to ensure that there are mechanisms in place that will prevent this. that is why i think it is essential to open the debate on a mechanism based on sanctions, which is fair, proportionate and applied to each case. finally, i would like to ask you what mechanisms you envisage for the review of agreements already signed, so that they can incorporate these advances in the sustainable development chapter in an agile and rapid manner.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, firstly, and on behalf of my group, i would like to express our deep respect for bulgaria and the bulgarian people, who have shown their commitment to european values and european integration. you come at a time of fierce ideological battle. an ideological battle between open and supportive europeanism and the worst ghosts of exclusionary populist nationalism. you see, ladies and gentlemen, to hear today a european leader speak in defence of the white race is truly chilling. so you have a lot of work ahead of you if you want to push the european union right along the path of openness, solidarity and the future. you have presented a very well-armed programme, and i would like you to stand out, to leave your mark on some of the policies you are presenting. if we european socialists were to choose one feature of the bulgarian presidency, we would like it to be justice. social justice. the development of the social pillar that so many europeans are waiting for. social justice, which will not be possible without fiscal justice. we need, ladies and gentlemen of the bulgarian presidency, fiscal harmonization in europe to make convergence possible, to make development possible and to combat inequality. we share your intention to work hard to develop the digital single market. and if we are serious about migration - we did that in this house yesterday, in the presence of the council and the commission - i will tell you that this parliament has done its job. the commission, too. we are waiting for the decisions of the council. the council is the one that has to take the decisions now and you know very well, mr borissov - because you are also bulgarian and understand this logic very well - that we need a common european asylum and migration system and that we need to reform the dublin regulation urgently. we're counting on you for that. but there is also the rule of law, democracy, the defence of democratic values - article 7 which the commission has activated in relation to the polish government - freedom of expression, the fight against corruption. all of this is part of european values. its contribution to the western balkans is also highly anticipated. europe is a community - this is not a made-up phrase - which has to defend the same values everywhere and the same values for all citizens. my group will not accept any discrimination. bulgaria and romania should be part of schengen. nothing will be easy, but you can count on this group if you go down this road. and one last thing, mr. president. i'm going to tell you something. i would like to ask you, on behalf of the women of the european union, but also on behalf of the friends of women in the european union, that the european union ratify the istanbul convention once and for all, because the integrity, freedom and dignity of women deserve all the efforts of european democrats.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president; mr prime minister, we hope that you will successfully meet the challenge of effectively implementing the reform of the common european asylum system rules now under negotiation, so that the relevant negotiations can begin as soon as possible. also indicate that there is no immigration without integration, and there is no integration without immigration control. they're two essential parts. you have said it yourself: bulgaria is directly aware of the communal tension, the larval confrontation that exists in the western balkans. there is only one way out of this crisis: to deepen the european values of respect for human rights and democratic freedoms which make up the european union. the destination is europe, and the solution, our common home. the eu-balkan summit next may is therefore crucial for peace and stability in the region. mr president, i would like to thank the president-in-office for his excellent report. you must pay attention to those points. i would also like to express the alde group's solidarity with you and the bulgarian people in the face of the unacceptable delays which are preventing your country from joining the schengen area. you have worked long and hard and the wait must end. the alde group, this parliament and all europeans hope that your presidency will be fruitful. in your endeavour, prime minister, you can count on us.
mr president, taoiseach, as we discuss with you the future of europe – a future which i firmly believe must be based on more and stronger and political integration in a number of areas – the catalan parliament is meeting for the first time, again with a majority of members in favour of a catalan republic. but eight members of this newly elected parliament cannot be there right now, sitting in the catalan chamber, because they are either in jail or in exile. so the question is: do you envisage a european union where honest politicians can be sent into exile or must be forced into jail because they fulfil a democratic mandate? do you envisage a european union where, again, peaceful people are beaten by police forces just because they want to vote – to exercise a basic right? do you envisage a european union that looks the other way when it comes to democracy and basic rights within its borders?
the rapporteur. mr president, following this clear and unequivocal mandate in favour of clean energy, i propose, in accordance with rule 59 of the rules of procedure, that the matter be referred back to committee so that negotiations can begin with the other institutions.
acting president of the council. mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, commissioner, before i present my speech on the subject of the debate, as i am speaking to you for the first time on behalf of the council, i should like to say first of all that i am delighted to be at your disposal during the bulgarian presidency. as a former mep, i know very well how important it is to work together, in close cooperation, to be able to meet the expectations of our citizens and to guarantee the democratic legitimacy of the european agenda and the policies of the european union. as our bulgarian presidency motto reminds us, unity is strength. i now turn to the language of shakespeare to thank you for inviting the presidency to speak on behalf of the council in this topical debate and on this very topical issue. in this chamber you have indeed discussed the issue of propaganda and fake news several times in recent months. as regards russia, in march 2015, the european council stressed the need to challenge that country's ongoing disinformation campaigns. it invited the high representative, in cooperation with member states and the european union institutions, to prepare an action plan on strategic communication. it noted at the same time that the establishment of the communication team was the first step in this regard. as a result, the east stratcom task force was launched in september 2015. it has been engaged in developing communication products and campaigns, focused on explaining eu policies in the eastern partnership region. this includes proactive communication campaigns, as well as analysing disinformation trends, explaining disinformation narratives and mythbusting. in november last year, eu foreign ministers took stock of the current work on eu strategic communications, in particular with regard to outreach to the eastern partnership region, the southern neighbourhood and the western balkans. they agreed to enhance work further and expressed their support for the development of all three task forces. in december 2017, they decided to reinforce cooperation with nato partners on countering hybrid threats. member states have also underlined the importance of expressing positive eu messages in the eu neighbourhood, as well as the need to counter disinformation where and when needed. i'm sure that today you will discuss the work and the findings of the east stratcom task force, as well as the influence of the reported activities in eu countries. in their joint communication on resilience in the eu's external action last june, the high representative and the commission noted that the european union, as well as some of its partner countries, was targeted by external disinformation activities that discredit the political and social systems that are central to our identity, security and stability. they underlined the importance of further developing measures to increase citizens' resilience to disinformation, notably by raising awareness and by supporting greater media plurality and professionalism. indeed, the challenges posed by the proliferation including online and on social media of new sources of disinformation need to be addressed on many different levels. we must, for example, not forget the important role of education and the need to develop democratic resilience, media literacy, tolerance and critical thinking. these efforts have become key to fighting off propaganda and manipulation through fake news, which threaten the very foundation of our societies as citizens elect their representatives on the basis of political views shaped by an open and fair debate. these issues were discussed notably during the third annual rule of law dialogue in the general affairs council in october last year, when ministers discuss the topic of media pluralism and rule of law in the digital age. finally, i would also like to refer to the high level expert group on fake news launched by the commission. its first meeting was held at the beginning of this week. it will help define the roles and responsibilities of the different stakeholders and formulate recommendations. its work will be of interest to all of us. i look forward to your debate which i will follow attentively.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for organising this topical debate on a subject which is, as we have already heard, of the highest importance, not only to the eu but also to all our citizens. on behalf of the commission, i welcome the analysis set out in parliament’s resolution on eu strategic communication to counteract propaganda against the union by third parties. there seems, frankly, little doubt that the pro-kremlin disinformation campaign is an orchestrated strategy, delivering the same disinformation stories in as many languages as possible, through as many channels as possible, as often as possible. this conclusion is based on two years’ work by the eu’s east stratcom task force, which has gathered more than 3 500 examples of pro-kremlin disinformation, contradicting publicly available facts, repeated in many languages on many occasions. russian authorities are not exactly shy about the goals of this disinformation campaign and disinformation activity. in russia’s official military doctrine, as well as statements by top russian generals, they describe the use of false data and destabilising propaganda as legitimate tools, and information as another type of armed force. while eu member states are obviously in the front line for such russian disinformation, the commission’s main role is to try and head off any fragmentation that might arise from differing member state responses to such activities. that is why we place great emphasis on the role of the east stratcom task force under high representative / vice-president mogherini, responsible for countering disinformation in the eu’s eastern neighbourhood. its objectives, as we have already heard, are to ensure more effective communication and promotion of eu policies towards these neighbourhoods and eu member states, to contribute to a strengthened media environment in these neighbourhoods and member states, and to improve eu capacity to forecast, address and respond to disinformation activities by external actors. in terms of positive communication, the task force supports and advises eu delegations in the eastern partnership, russia and central asia on how to improve their communications. it provides media products to support that activity: for example, the team was responsible for the communications campaign in the run-up to, and during, last november’s eastern partnership summit. the task force works closely with the commission and eu delegations in the eastern neighbourhood in support of independent media. the task force is a permanent member of all the relevant donor committees supporting independent media. it has also launched a russian-language service from brussels, providing updates and fact-based background information about the union for russian-language journalists. the aim is to increase visibility and more accurate representation of eu policies in the russian media. lastly, the task force produces a weekly disinformation review. its twitter account ensures that the task force’s products reach up to two million people per month, in addition, obviously, to regular background briefings, including to international media, think-tanks and academics. this work is very important. that is why i welcome the proposal that parliament has advanced to strengthen both our east and south stratcom task forces. we have heard about the importance of cyber security. i have had the occasion to address this house on cyber security previously, and i am afraid time does not allow me today to go into details but, from the commission side, as set out in the proposals last september, we strongly support measures to build our cyber resilience and our cyber deterrence. rightly, there has been a focus on the wider phenomenon of fake news. it is one of the commission’s priorities for the coming year. as we have heard, in november last year we established a high-level expert group, which has now started its work to advise the commission on scoping the phenomenon, grasping its international dimension, defining the roles and responsibilities of relevant stakeholders and presenting recommendations. the group will contribute to the preparation of a strategy addressing the challenge of fake news, which we will issue in spring this year. the commission has also launched a public consultation on fake news, which is open until 23 february. there are two questionnaires available – one for our citizens and one targeted at legal entities and journalists to draw on their professional experience. we will see what those consultations highlight, but we believe that strong media literacy and promoting quality media are important elements of meeting the challenge of fake news, because media freedom and pluralism are pillars of our of our democracy. they are fundamental rights and they are crucial guarantees for open and free democratic debate. it is primarily for member states to guarantee media freedom and pluralism. that said, the commission is aware of existing challenges and is taking a number of measures, within our competence, to strengthen media freedom and pluralism across the union, including, further to an initiative of this parliament, funding the european centre for press and media freedom in leipzig to address violations of media freedom. we have to remain vigilant. the purpose of a disinformation campaign is to get people to believe that the disinformation is fact, is credible. if we look at opinion polls measuring how many people accept obvious disinformation planted in pro-kremlin media, then unfortunately we have to conclude that russian disinformation can be extremely successful. that is why we need to redouble our efforts to debunk this propaganda and why we welcome the debate today.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the national-populists of the world see our representative democracy and our european way of life as their worst ideological rival, and they think that disinformation is useful, that disinformation is their continuation of the war against us on the internet. that is why the enemies of europe are spreading disinformation, to throw us off balance and to undermine the democratic principles for which the european union stands. if the european union were not a beacon of democracy, the european union would never be attacked with fake news. it's because we're democrats that we're being attacked, not because we're europeans. in the case of russia i must say that we do not speak of an enemy, although sometimes russia treats us as if we were. the kremlin has a billion euros a year in public media, a television network in a hundred countries and thirty-three languages and an army of phantom accounts ready to spread fake news. and they use them on the ground in the european union. the european union, however, has only a budget of one million euros and a task force of 17 people to defend itself. seventeen people against €1 billion a year in public media. we're really quite helpless. every time the european union has a problem, fake news comes out, cyber attacks appear, emails are stolen and russian media comes into action. we must start taking our responsibilities more seriously. in the recent events in catalonia, for example, more than 4 800 robots have been detected acting in favour of the break-up of spain, constantly spreading false or manipulated information on the internet. some russian tv stations even opened their newscasts in spain with images of tanks heading towards barcelona, which only existed in the imagination of the editor. so i'll end with two ideas. first, disinformation and propaganda campaigns are a threat to democracy, and we must treat them as such. secondly, we europeans do not want to impose our way of life on anyone, but we must be able to defend it, including on the internet. we are proud of our democracy, the separation of powers, freedom of expression, the rule of law and a free press, but that must be a strength, never a weakness. europe is an uncomfortable intelligence for the enemies of truth, and post-truth is just another name for a lie.
mr president, einstein said: "two things are infinite: human stupidity and the universe; and i'm not sure about the latter". the pathetic obsession of the european right-wing media with alleged russian interference is reaching degrees of stupidity that would make the scientist himself blush. last november, the spanish foreign minister denounced before the european union the russian and venezuelan interference in the debate on catalonia, and claimed to have data. we're still waiting on that data. because there aren't any. media outlets interested in repeating this mantra have glaring examples: st. petersburg-based twitter accounts, fake news. but, if we get to the facts, let's see, if you're interested. last november, the national intelligence center, through its cybersecurity chief, claimed that the cni had not detected any cyberattacks by the russian government. neither the german agencies found any significant russian activity, nor the french cyber authority. i mean, behind this pathetic paranoia is a clear political strategy, namely to prevent good neighbourliness with russia. stop being paranoid, gentlemen! you're not going to get away with this!
mr. president, there are some facts that are decisive. one, there are computer servers based in the russian federation that generate, spread and multiply false messages, poisoning the networks. two, these messages are aimed at fracturing western societies. three, servers require high investments in facilities and staff. fourth, the funding required is not known or justified, as it has no publicity. five, the police and intelligence services of the russian federation are extraordinarily efficient. six, this situation certainly does not benefit relations between the european union and the russian federation, which i understand cannot remain frozen. seven, why are the russian authorities allowing this activity? and, in conclusion, if president macron has had the common sense to put in place legislation to block this fictitious information, this intoxicating information, what is the european union going to do to carry out such an activity?
mr president, commissioner king, henry kissinger once said to robert mcnamara: 'do you know, bob? the fact that i'm a paranoid doesn't mean that i don't have real enemies. we can argue whether the strategy is erratic, but not that the threat is real. because propaganda as a way of doing politics did not die out with the totalitarianisms that clashed in world war ii, but continues to threaten the founding values of the european union, in a hybrid of cyberterrorism, fake news, intoxication and blackmail. and it is true that the threat does not come only from russia and does not affect only the countries in its immediate neighbourhood, but also that studies and reports by the us congress and the commission of inquiry set up in the uk and european intelligence agencies point to thousands of automated accounts based in russia, which attack the founding values of democratic societies, as was recently revealed in catalonia, to sow chaos and confusion, favouring the cause of secession. it is essential that the european union honours the prague declaration of commissioner mogherini and invests and equips itself to deal with this threat, which is absolutely real.
in writing. this debate, without a vote, deals with the impact of russian propaganda on the security of the member states and interference in their political and electoral processes. russia is carrying out and encouraging actions to destabilise both european governments and societies as well as the eu and nato. several member states have expressed concern about the effects of this propaganda and its potentially dramatic political effects, especially given that hungary and italy will hold elections this year, or the geographical and historical links existing in the eastern countries. this issue is of great importance from the defence point of view, since the relationship with russia is one of the crucial points in the construction of the european defence union. the eu has considered this a key issue and has set up a specialised unit to tackle it. in addition, a declaration urging the high representative to take action was signed in prague and the budget for fighting external interference and fake news has been increased.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, the figures revealed in this report on the implementation of the youth employment initiative are a bit of a shock to the european commission, because what initially seemed like a good idea to combat youth unemployment has ended up highlighting serious problems in its design, funding and implementation. the problems of mobilising funds, because they did not reach the countries which needed them most, the problems of designing the programmes themselves and, finally, the fact that the little data we have tells us that this policy is not being effective. and it is a shame that spain, having received 1 000 million euros, has hardly provided any data on where it has used the funds. the youth employment initiative should be used to enable young people to make a proper transition to the labour market, and yet we have seen how exploitation, the replacement of permanent workers, contingency and precariousness are proliferating under this initiative. ladies and gentlemen, the problem of young people is not the lack of employability, and those who talk about ninnies in this house today i think have not understood this and that, in fact, they do not understand what the solutions are for the future of our society. we believe that if this report is adopted it will force the commission and the member states to react to meet the social objectives by 2020, because at the moment the youth guarantee in countries like mine is in a very serious state of suspension.
madam president, madam commissioner, the european youth employment initiative is a very important instrument, but we have a problem of implementation in many member states. the spanish case is particularly bloody, for example, as spain is currently the second country with the highest youth unemployment in the european union, at 37%, which is more than double the youth unemployment of the union average. in this case, for example, it is not acceptable that the majority of the resources of the youth guarantee should be allocated to a bonus system which only involves lightening the social security contributions for employers. there are no programmes to create jobs or reduce precariousness in the labour market, the most important needs young people have when they want to work. the results are performing worse than in the rest of the european union, as the youth employment rate is growing much less in spain. in practice, the youth guarantee is being used, in this case, for programmes that pay lower wages or do not recognise the employment relationship as such. only 30% of the programme's offers are for employment, compared with 70% in the eu-28, so far from being a programme that helps to have quality work, in this case it becomes a mere subsidy to entrepreneurs, who are also precarious. we therefore also ask the rest of the house to support the amendment tabled by our group and the s&d group, which calls for a better definition of what constitutes a quality offer, so that it responds to the needs of young people in this programme. it is therefore very important, madam commissioner, that the programme is carried out, but above all it is very important that you ensure that it is implemented correctly.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would first like to recall that the youth employment initiative was born as an emergency instrument in the face of a critical situation affecting millions of young people throughout the european union and which has benefited 1.6 million of the most affected regions. in my own country, spain, youth unemployment has fallen by more than 20% in the last four years. the employment rate - also in my country - of young people enrolled in the youth guarantee is 41%. i think that these data are positive and we are moving in the right direction. there is undoubtedly a long way to go, especially in terms of integrating the most disadvantaged young people into the labour market, such as children, the longterm unemployed, young people with disabilities and those from ethnic minorities. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. and with regard to its application and to assess its effectiveness, we have to take into account several issues. firstly, that young people are a very diverse group with different needs and levels of training and needing a personalised approach, and secondly, that the youth guarantee has served to tackle deep structural reforms in the member states, reforms carried out in a difficult economic context, especially in the beneficiary countries, as they were based on higher youth unemployment.
madam president, according to the eurobarometer, half of europe's young people feel excluded and marginalised from any meaningful participation in social and economic life. and this is not corrected by financial contributions from the european union through the youth employment initiative or the youth guarantee, and even more so when the member states have misused these funds, as the court of auditors itself has denounced. paying social security contributions to companies, as in spain, has only served to increase the precariousness of the few jobs generated. we must either use these economic resources to make structural changes which will really create quality jobs, which will be based on a different production model, which will guarantee active employment policies with training programmes; or we must put an end once and for all to these grants which only serve to create more precariousness; or we must guarantee, in short, stable employment and public employment services, or else next year we will be here again with large numbers and headlines and with greater dislike for our young people.
madam president, the crisis has ended up robbing a whole generation in europe of their hopes and expectations, and it has also ended up breaking one of those invisible covenants on which our society is based and backed up: the pact between generations. for this reason, we have been working at european level for four years now with the youth employment initiative. four years which also give us the opportunity to assess and claim what we have done during all this time. we must insist that the european union continue to work, that this programme should become a permanent programme, that we should look to 2020 and our financial perspectives with a clear intention of continuing to work in this direction. but also with the will to reform, because we need this money to go towards structural changes in our active employment policies, towards comprehensive labour integration programmes, with quality jobs and quality training, and that we do not hide our employment problems under the carpet of precariousness or temporariness.
madam president, madam commissioner, the youth guarantee has provided an opportunity for integration for thousands of young people across europe who were thrown out of the labour market or excluded by the economic crisis. and in this connection we must insist that we must continue this programme decisively and, above all, provide it with increased budgetary resources to be able to serve all young people. but we cannot fall into complacency and my country certainly has no reason to do so. and we have to try to improve the program. we have pointed out many problems in this report with the youth employment initiative, and i would like to highlight two of them. first, we need to reach more young people, especially those between 25 and 30 years of age, because they are the ones who have the greatest need for emancipation and, therefore, the ones who most urgently need a job with decent conditions and sufficient wages. and we also need those job and training opportunities that are funded by this youth guarantee to be useful and of quality. because that is precisely the weakest point, and that is why we have tabled an amendment. let's get this straight. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not left behind. offering them low or very low-skilled work for which they are often overqualified further distances them from a certain chance of getting a decent job. so let's keep working to improve this program and offer a future to our youth.
madam president, the conflicts of international crossborder marriages have indeed increased because this is a growing reality. there are 16 million international families. there are 140 000 divorces a year in the european union and 1 800 cases of child abduction. it is indeed a matter which concerns the legal cornerstone of this 'brussels ii bis' regulation which we are dealing with today, a regulation which has had benefits because it has helped this judicial cooperation, but, of course, a few years after its implementation, we have been able to see that it has had shortcomings and difficulties. the difficulties described here are those of judicial cooperation, of reception, of protection of the child, of the necessary abolition of the exequatur, of the enforcement of decisions, and above all the legal uncertainty which has often been created and the unnecessary delays which have always hampered the interests of the child, because if the interests of the child are already complicated when a separation occurs, they are even more so when this situation is unnecessarily prolonged. the amendment of this regulation is therefore welcome in order to improve legal certainty, to make it more effective, to promote mediation, to promote a harmonious solution and, above all, to protect the interests of the child, which is what we are dealing with here. we will have thus brought europe closer to the citizens and we will have been really effective and agile in protecting human rights.
madam president, commissioner, how could a majority of this european parliament not adopt, by a large majority, a regulation aimed at strengthening the principle of mutual trust and mutual recognition of judicial decisions in a matter as sensitive and important as divorce and matrimonial law, but above all the abduction of minors in the european union? it is a matter i dealt with when i was responsible as minister of justice for the government of spain and i therefore welcome any progress towards greater clarity, legal certainty, the abolition of exequatur and, above all, the strengthening of the rights of the child to be heard in any procedure affecting him. i can only regret that the amendments proposed by the committee on petitions, which stressed the importance of strengthening the child in particular in cases as painful as those involving gender-based violence or the express recognition of the different forms of parentage and, consequently, of the different forms of family that inhabit and enrich the european union, have not been successful. in any case, i welcome this regulation and we shall vote in favour of it.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me again express my thanks on behalf of the commission for parliament’s report and your support for this recast proposal. your report will inspire the debate in the council. we remain confident that under the leadership of the bulgarian presidency, which has chosen this as a priority, we will see progress on these files. a swift conclusion to the negotiations. will be important as it would help families in difficult situations and protect children in particular. i am sure that this will lead to the adoption of measures that will serve this very noble purpose.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission would like to express its deep satisfaction with the fact that the legislative file on the ratification of the marrakesh treaty is now entering its final stages. the draft council decision is on the table, and the ep is voting on its position regarding its consent. the marrakesh treaty aims to substantially improve access to books, journals and other printed texts for persons who are blind, visually impaired or who have other disabilities that prevent them from reading in the same way as persons without those disabilities. this objective is very important. even today, too few print materials can be accessed by people with brain disabilities worldwide. addressing this problem is fundamental for social inclusion and social advancement. doing so will benefit people with brain disabilities, and it will benefit everybody else. the marrakesh treaty has been an important priority for the commission for a long time, and we would like to support the statements made by the rapporteur of this file, mr andersson. together with the adoption by the european union of the directive and regulation implementing the marrakesh treaty into the eu’s legal framework on 13 september 2017, the ratification of the treaty means that the european union will soon be in a position to participate in the exchange of books and other print materials in formats accessible for the beneficiaries, as envisioned by the treaty. we will therefore give our full support to this proposal, and we hope that the legislative procedure can be brought to a swift end.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, the marrakesh treaty does indeed provide for the accessibility of published works to blind or visually impaired persons. and we know that there are 2.5 million blind people in europe and more than 25 million visually impaired people on our continent. until now, they had access to less than 5% of works in accessible format. thanks to this marrakesh treaty, which began to be negotiated in 2013 and whose ratification we are finishing today, those millions of people will be able to access, in accessible format, thousands and thousands of books and we can fix the reading famine. it's a historic moment because we've achieved with this decision that there is an impact on accessibility for people with visual impairments, with a format that can be braille, it can be macro type, large reading, audiobooks... we have certainly succeeded in remedying, as i said, the reading shortage, but we have also succeeded in enabling millions of people to access education, to access employment and to access full inclusion. we are always in favour of a europe for all, an inclusive europe. and today, with this decision, we show off everything we stand for. let us not forget that the glue of european sentiment is precisely values. and today it makes sense to walk together, today it makes sense that europe has life and life expectancy, and that we are calling with this decision for a greater commitment to the dignity of the people. after this decision - which will not be published for some time - our commitment to human rights has become superlative and we are proud to be europeans and we are really showing our european patriotism.
author. mr president, in the modern europe of the 21st century there are sex slaves. in the developed europe of the 21st century, women are exploited in the workforce. in the advanced europe of the 21st century, more than half a million women and girls cross our borders every year at the hands of mafias and organised crime groups. we could put names and faces on these women who were tricked and forced into prostitution. women and girls threatened with murder of their families incur a debt that they must pay in the brothels where they work. they work in brothels, create a debt, pay the money to these mafias. money from the customers that ends up in the pockets of the mafias and the criminals. i repeat, customer money that ends up in the pockets of criminals. i say this because there are still those who, either naively or intentionally, say that this prostitution is an exercise in freely deciding what one wants to do with one's life. and i think it would also be time for europe to talk about legislation. because without customers, there would be no criminals with their pockets full. and there is another issue to be discussed, and that is labour exploitation. the socialist group was in sicily in july, in the ragusa area, to visit an area where women - mostly romanian women - are working on farms, where they are exploited, working day and night for less than three euros a day, if they are even paid. both situations, sexually exploited women and exploited women in the workplace, have one common denominator: vulnerable women who suffer. the european commission and the member states must therefore put in place a strategy against trafficking in women and against trafficking in women and girls. because we have to turn laws into instruments and into resources. it's our responsibility. it's our duty. that is why we do not give up denouncing and being the voice of these women. there's no excuse for silence.
author. mr president, human trafficking in the european union is a growing problem. according to the european commission's own data, 76% of victims are women; 15% are children; from 2013 to 2014 there were almost 16 000 victims and only about 3 000 convictions for trafficking. however, we know that the number of trafficking cases today must be more than double or triple the number recorded, because most cases, of course, escape statistics. we also know that the current migration and refugee crisis is being used by trafficking mafias to identify the most vulnerable people, mainly women and girls, abusing asylum seekers who want to reach europe or who are already in european refugee camps. sixteen thousand five hundred unaccompanied children entered greece, italy, bulgaria and spain during the first six months of 2017 and they are now clearly at high risk of falling into trafficking networks. the iom has also reported a dramatic increase in the number of nigerian women and girls who have become victims of human trafficking, the vast majority for sexual exploitation. from january to september 2017 alone, 4,371 nigerian women and girls leaving libya identified themselves as victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation. and here i would also like to recall that on 6 november last year 26 women and girls of this same nationality were killed by their mafia when they were trying to reach the italian coast. we must react now to this terrible and intolerable reality, and we believe that the european commission must act. we have some very valuable instruments, but they need to be applied in a more concrete way, and the commission must be more stringent in compelling the member states to comply with these instruments. and, as has been said before, we believe it is very important that, beyond the instruments we have, we develop a comprehensive policy from within the european institutions to tackle this phenomenon. we are therefore very much looking forward to hearing today, commissioner, what action the european commission is taking to combat this terrible phenomenon.
mr president, mr commissioner, labour exploitation in the european union is unfortunately a daily occurrence. the fundamental rights agency itself warns us of global economic inequalities and the increase in labour mobility, which are favouring labour exploitation. it also warns that a work contract and a residence permit do not guarantee fair situations. under the law, in the european union there is also exploitation. the exploitation also has a female face. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this problem, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. in the face of this we need strong political action, not a declaration of intent. and we need coordination between the commission and the member states to combat trafficking in human beings, gender-transversal policies and greater emphasis on social dialogue in the face of neoliberal policies which fail to protect workers.
mr president, this problem, commissioner, combines the action of organized and clandestine international networks which require a comprehensive approach at least at european level, and a response, usually at local or regional level, from the health, social services or education sectors, to the victims of these practices. both aspects should therefore be integrated, in a determined and sincere manner, into the planning and implementation of european policies against this scourge. the obtaining of more reliable data and a real capacity for multi-level interinstitutional coordination, from the provision of the concrete services, are obvious advantages of their participation. this is evidenced, for example, by the fourth four-year plan for the care of temporary workers in the basque country, where this initiative has been running since 2004. finally, i would like to ask two questions: can the commission confirm that the increase in the activity of these networks may lead to the disappearance of almost 30 000 unaccompanied minors in the union?
in writing. in the advanced europe of the 21st century, more than 500,000 women and girls cross our borders every year at the hands of mafias and organised crime groups, who exploit them for labour or force them into prostitution, or both. women and girls, threatened with the murder of their families, who incur exorbitant debts that can only be paid by working in brothels or in agricultural fields, with poverty-stricken wages, in inhuman conditions, as we saw in july in ragusa, sicily, where hundreds of women, mostly romanian, work day and night for less than three euros a day, and that is if they are paid. the european commission must launch a new european strategy against trafficking in women and girls without delay. although labour exploitation is on the rise, the main destination of women trafficked as mere commodities is still prostitution, from which the mafias and criminals derive huge profits. there are still those who believe that women freely choose to engage in prostitution. it is time for europe to legislate, because without customers there would be no criminals with full pockets.
mr president, i don't think it's wrong to talk about a cultural heritage night. i remember hegel writing, "the owl of minerva begins its flight at dusk", which i don't think is inappropriate. but having said that, i am very pleased that the european institutions have proclaimed 2018 as the european year of cultural heritage and that the council of europe, unesco and europa nostra, among others, are collaborating in this initiative. european history and culture have been profoundly dynamic, without comparison. and today we have a truly exceptional cultural heritage. i would like to see an ambitious union action plan or programme for cultural heritage launched by the end of 2018 to preserve and disseminate it in the future. the year 2018 should not be limited to a series of events or meetings during these 12 months, but should have continuity, commissioner. and so, i would like that idea of the action plan. a year of attention to our heritage doesn't seem enough. i believe that this action plan should even include the creation of a specific budget line or fund for the union to contribute to the recovery and preservation of cultural heritage, for example, of important architectural ensembles in the member states. now that we're talking about future financial prospects, why not think of a game like that? i know that these actions are often co-financed by the european regional development funds, but a specific item would give them greater visibility. it is not only peace, it is not only the economy, it is not only globalisation that is the argument for the european union today. the common cultural-historical substrate embodied in this splendid cultural heritage is also important. the union must therefore also contribute to its preservation. the legal basis for this? i think that is quite clear in article 167 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. and i need hardly stress the great tourist and economic impact of good care of cultural heritage.
madam president, the profound impact of the way in which professions are regulated on the economy of the european union is not a sufficient reason for member states to lose control of what is their exclusive competence. this debate is not new, and it is worth repeating that the european commission should not continue to try to appropriate these powers. we have already seen this with the proportionality test, when the proposal made by the european commission was rejected by the employment committee. the proportionality of regulations in the professions cannot be reviewed in advance by the commission. that is why we have the court of justice of the european union, which deals with specific cases and not with general cases. we must get out of our heads that the regulation of professions is an economic, market affair. it is necessary that these rules be proportionate and non-discriminatory, but it is for the member states and the court of justice to ensure that this is the case.
author. madam president, i would prefer to speak about what is not precisely covered in the resolution. ladies and gentlemen, nigeria is the largest economy on the african continent, with large oil and gas reserves, and yet 80% of its population lives in poverty and wealth is concentrated in very few hands. most of the oil extraction is in the hands of european companies and many of them are denounced for human rights violations. to give some examples: shell, for complicity in human rights violations against the ogoni people; shell and eni, for international corruption trial currently underway in italy―; or eni, for example, for environmental damage caused by the 2010 oil pipeline explosion. the majority of the groups in this parliament have not found it appropriate to mention the 'accidents of life' and the responsibility of european multinationals for the violation of human rights in nigeria, precisely in an urgent resolution on human rights; let us not spoil some business! the economic interests of the multinationals and their complicit governments are pushing people to flee nigeria. thousands risk their lives on the migration routes to the european union and are victims of slavery and mistreatment. nigerian women are sexually exploited both on the way to europe and within our borders. as we plunder nigeria's natural resources, we build walls and externalize borders to repel the consequences of our plunder; or we open a trust fund from our alms for africa instead of changing our economic and geostrategic policies, which is what we should be doing. no more handouts, but to be consistent with our policies.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, the situation in nigeria is one of extreme violence. there are over two million internally displaced people, most of whom have no access to food, housing, education or healthcare. women and girls are raped and sexually exploited by boko haram, but also by members of security groups, police and soldiers. hundreds of thousands of nigerians have left the country in recent months, fleeing the violence and the poverty and lack of basic rights. on their way to europe many have been trapped in these detention camps in libya, funded by the european union, where they are tortured and enslaved. and what has been the solution? to give them asylum in europe, as stipulated by the geneva convention and international treaties? no, deporting them was the solution. more than two thousand nigerians have been deported from libya to nigeria. to take them out of the violence in libya to put them back into the violence they fled in nigeria. anything is better than opening safe and legal routes to europe. anything now.
madam president, we all know that nigeria is a huge country, the most populated country in africa, and we all know that it is devastated by injustice and violence, not only on religious grounds but also on social, economic and political grounds. that is why it happens that nigeria is one of the five priority countries of the migration partnership and in that context i myself have been a member of a delegation to nigeria on a number of occasions with some other colleagues here. migration – illicit migration routes – is at the origin of massive and gross human rights violations aimed mostly at women and defenceless children. this resolution tackles the call on the fight against boko haram and its terrorism, but also addresses the nigerian authorities, calling for reform of the security forces, to make sure that they prevent extrajudicial executions, arbitrary detentions and torture, and reform of the criminal judicial system to make sure that the law is enforced to fight violence, terrorism and corruption, which is massive in nigeria.
madam president, we are aware of the very serious problems that have been happening in nigeria recently. jihadist terrorism has taken root in that african country and alongside the savage attacks of boko haram, coupled with their shameful kidnappings, inter-ethnic, religious conflicts, lack of freedoms and violation of human rights in nigeria. through this resolution, the european institutions must take note that thousands and thousands of nigerians are leaving that country in search of a place where they can live in peace and freedom. and a part, a large part of them, too, is the christian minority, who, as in other african countries, are being persecuted, harassed and killed. our european institutions must therefore support this group of nigerian christians and give them the resources to express their faith in complete freedom.
the european union is demonstrating its incapacity and impotence in a brutal way on some world stages. the democratic republic of congo is one of those countries. how many times have we not mentioned in this house how important it is that the democratic republic of the congo does not fall into a deeply hostile hole, how fundamental that country is to the region and to the whole continent, how injustices are happening one after another and how utterly incapable we are of stopping them. only two messages in a minute i have. first: the date of the elections in december 2018 must be maintained at all costs; time has already run out for the congolese. and secondly, to the congolese government: stop massacring your youth, stop arresting, torturing and murdering your youth, protect your youth and protect your country.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the european union is washing its willful impotence with hypocritical condemnations. i am tired of denunciations and condemnations that are irrelevant to president kabila and his kleptocracy. besides condemning, we have to do. and we can do it, and we must do it! there's a holocaust in the democratic republic of congo. and that holocaust has a response. first, article 96 of the cotonou agreement, which requires democratic behaviour if they are to continue to enjoy the benefits of the european union. we're not doing it. i'm tired of being condemned. the second is that in the member states of the european union, where the assets of the congolese kleptocracy reside, they can simply go to court, seize them and take away the wealth of the murderous kleptocrats who are the congolese government. if we don't take concrete actions, honestly, another role for nothing produces an infinite - i would say - rejection. i am sick of the hypocrisy in the european union. i don't want another conviction. i want stock.
the democratic republic of congo is facing simultaneous and serious crises. the very serious political, social and humanitarian situation is compounded by the appalling floods which have destroyed the homes of thousands of people and the cholera outbreak which is stalking the country, as well as the constant savage plundering of its natural resources and the human rights violations which accompany them, many of which are committed by european companies and businessmen. in addition, the violence during the anniversary of the new year's agreements claimed the lives of numerous protesters. the european union must demand that the government abandon the use of violence against peaceful protesters, respect freedom of expression as enshrined in its constitution - including free access to social media - and guarantee religious freedom. the commitments made by the european union through the european development fund, although modest, are essential in priority areas such as health, the environment and agriculture, and the strengthening of democratic governance and the rule of law. it is the least the congolese people deserve after decades of first colonial plunder and now neoliberal plunder.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank mr wałęsa as well for his remarks. the commission concluded its annual consultations with norway on 2018 fishing opportunities at the beginning of last december. on 13 december, the council reached an agreement on tax and quotas for 2018, which also reflects the agreement with norway. today’s debate on the snow crab fishing disagreement between the eu and norway is therefore particularly timely. it gives me the opportunity to reassure you that the commission has been working very hard to try to come to a practical arrangement with norway which would allow the unblocking of the current situation. several contacts with norway took place at different levels, even since the seizure of the latvian vessel ‘senator’ in january 2017. unfortunately, despite our best efforts, no satisfactory solution has been reached so far. let me now reply precisely to the three questions raised in your major interpellation. you first asked the commission how it intends to proceed to obtain a fair solution allowing eu vessels to fish for snow crab in svalbard; secondly, you asked what action the commission would recommend to the council for 2018; and thirdly, you asked whether we would include snow crab in the annual eu-norway consultations. i think the three questions are very closely linked, so let me start by confirming the eu’s legal position. our position is that the parties to the treaty of paris have a right to non-discriminatory access to snow crab in the waters of svalbard. as you know, this position is not shared by norway. norway’s legal position is that the continental shelf around svalbard is part of the norwegian continental shelf and only norway can authorise fishing for snow crab there. since the seizure of the latvian vessel in early 2017, we have firmly defended our legal position. we remain convinced that the right solution would be for norway to allow eu vessels to fish for snow crab in svalbard under the same conditions as norwegian vessels. however, our norwegian partners see this differently. therefore, what the commission has been trying to do for more than a year now is to come to a pragmatic arrangement with norway that would allow the resumption of fishing activities for snow crab without prejudice to the eu’s legal position. all this while still maintaining our good working relations with norway as a key partner for fisheries. one of your questions suggest that we could have included snow crab in the annual eu-norway consultations. these consultations took place during the last week of november last year as part of the preparations for the december fisheries council. this possibility was indeed explored with member states ahead of the consultations. during the fisheries council in october, ministers exchanged views on the upcoming annual consultations between the european union and norway. however, no request was made to include snow crab fisheries in these consultations. i have to stress that linking svalbard to our bilateral agreement with norway – which is essentially about exchanges of quotas and access rights – would imply giving up the european union’s legal position. under the treaty of paris, there should not be any compensation for access to snow crab around svalbard. as a part of these consultations, norway did indeed offer 500 tons of snow crab which could be fished on the entire norwegian continental shelf. member states, however, rejected the idea of an exchange. consequently snow crab was not included in the agreed quota exchanges for this year 2018. so, what action has the commission recommended to the council for 2018? our proposal for the fishing opportunities regulation maintained the same language concerning snow crab as the regulation for 2017: namely, it contains a recital asserting our interpretation of this svalbard treaty and the provision granting 20 fishing authorisations to eu vessels. on 13 december, the council reached a political agreement on the basis of this proposal. however, the commission has also emphasised that the position of norwegian authorities on this matter is unlikely to change in the near future. therefore, operators wishing to operate in this fishery in 2018 should be duly informed of the risks that this may entail. member states should warn interested operators of the risks involved before issuing the licenses for this fishery. indeed, norway has already reacted to the inclusion of fishing authorisations for snow crab in the 2018 fishing opportunities regulation. they reiterated their protest, repeated their legal position, and argued that any license issued without norway’s consent is without legal effect. the norwegian fisheries minister has also publicly stated that he considers this the end of the informal talks on snow crab. considering the norwegian reaction, it is now unlikely that we will find a solution soon which would allow for the resumption of fishing activities for snow crab in the area in the near future in line with our position on svalbard.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr commissioner, listen to this headline: norway arrests a european vessel in svalbard for legally fishing for snow crab, despite the european union's indifference. this is a striking headline that perfectly sums up the situation and brings it back to the present, even if it is a year later. and i think it's not entirely fair. you said it. i would like to think that the european commission is trying to do that. but it's very alarming. european fishermen feel totally discriminated against by foreign operators and abandoned by the very authorities that we constantly ask them to comply with the strict legislation of the european union. twenty vessels, after having made large investments following the european union's decision to allow them to fish in 2017, have since remained in the port, including the spanish vessel adexe primero, while norwegian vessels continue to capture this valuable resource. many jobs and families in the european union depend directly on this activity and have no alternative. the aggressive attitude and intimidation of norway, which is provokingly refusing to comply with international agreements, is politically and legally unacceptable. the norwegian courts have also said the same, saying that they are illegitimate and contrary to the international obligations assumed by norway. i understand that the commission is trying to find a pragmatic solution with norway which will allow fishing to continue without calling into question the position on the interpretation of the applicable international law. however, while it is important to maintain this position of the european union, it is equally important to find a viable solution for our operators. the commission must certainly continue its efforts towards such a pragmatic solution, but it cannot be passive and, above all, it cannot be so cautious. the actions must be carried out at the highest level. the situation is very serious and urgent action is needed. the solution, commissioner, is not just to warn the fishermen that they are going to be arrested. the fishermen expect more from us.
the rapporteur. mr president, it is a pleasure to open this debate, to welcome the president of the european central bank, mario draghi, the vice-president of the commission, mr dombrovskis, and all the colleagues who are going to take part in this discussion on the execution of monetary policy by the ecb. it is true that the ecb is an independent institution which, within the framework of its mandate, implements the objective of achieving an inflation rate close to 2%, but it is true that, in recent times, we have had serious problems in situating the inflation target at that long-term reference. just a few days ago we knew the data of last month that showed a further reduction in inflation, up to 1.3%, and it is true that the forecasts place that 2% well into the year 2019. in turn, according to the growth data, it is true that the euro area is regaining capacity, but we have an excess of potential ahead, an excess of sufficient growth capacity: the monetary fund, the european commission itself, in their estimates of the output gap, show a very wide margin for further growth without inflationary tensions. so this house, in that report, respecting - as i say - the clear independence of the ecb, i think it puts the debate where it should be in order to guide that work over the next year as well. as i said, it is true that the euro area is growing better, but monetary policy is not enough: we need a coherent fiscal policy, which makes it possible to diversify the positions of each of the governments in the economic cycle in order to provide the whole of the euro area with a consistent fiscal policy. it is true that we also need reforms that activate, that improve productivity throughout the union: reforms that are socially responsible, socially forward-looking policies. but the report also points to the need to consolidate the internal market. we need to improve the consolidation of the capital markets union - which the commission is pushing forward with the support of this parliament - and we also need to consolidate the banking union. it is an agenda of reforms, some of which are already legislative proposals, which are on the table in the european parliament and which need the cooperation and debate of all our colleagues. we therefore call for an accommodative monetary policy in the right direction, in the right direction, reforms that are still pending. and then, of course, the report also mentions some of the side effects of this monetary policy, and calls on the ecb to monitor them closely. i am referring to the problems of redistribution of income and wealth; i am referring to the problems for financial stability of maintaining a flat rate curve for a long time; i am also referring to the control and monitoring of potential bubbles that may be emerging in some segments of the financial markets and of the real estate markets as well. and so we ask the ecb to monitor these side effects of its own monetary policy. but the report clearly points to new transparency instruments, to the need for the cspp to have clear eligibility criteria to avoid problems of discrimination between large and small enterprises. we need to improve the implementation of the ela, to give it credibility and robustness throughout the euro area, and we need to improve the monetary dialogue, the control that this house exercises over the work of the european central bank - which is an institution, as the report acknowledges, which is also bound by the paris agreement, which the whole of the european union has signed. i think it is a comprehensive and important report and i hope that this debate will yield new contributions.
mr president, mr draghi, the european union has reached one of the key moments in its history. we have seen a situation of credit shortages, particularly for smes, which hampered economic recovery, and low inflation which prevented the member states of the union from easing their debt levels. the european central bank has played a very important role in the economic recovery, but it has become clear that monetary policy alone is not enough to achieve a sustainable and more balanced and inclusive economic recovery. you said it yourself, structural reforms are needed. and spain is a good example of that. it has now done so and is growing by over 3% and has created over half a million jobs annually over the last three years. we can take a positive view of the performance of the european central bank, with a recent improvement in expectations for both 2018 and 2019. we are now entering a scenario of gradual withdrawal of stimulus in time and quantity, ensuring that at no time is the economic recovery put at risk. in conclusion, i would like to congratulate the author of the report. and i would like to call, in line with the opinion of the european central bank, for the continuation of the negotiations for the establishment of the european deposit guarantee scheme as the third pillar of a genuine banking union, which will help to strengthen and safeguard the financial stability of the european union.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all i would like to thank honourable members and president draghi for the fruitful discussion. let me conclude by mentioning a point which directly concerns the commission. the report encourages the commission to study schemes such as a central bank digital currency and digital base money with a view to improving public access to payment systems. we agree that further study of the potential challenges associated with these schemes to access payment systems is needed. to this end, we will liaise closely with the ecb, as the report invites us to do. we count on your continued support in building the foundations for sustainable growth and job creation in europe.
president of the european central bank. – mr president, let me first thank mr fernández and his colleagues for the report. it is very encouraging for our work that you stress how our measures have contributed to the recovery and to financial stability. you noted in the report that the institutional framework enshrined in the treaties allowed us to take decisive action in line with our price stability mandate, and this has been the objective of our monetary policy throughout. it still is the objective of our monetary policy. in the course of exchanges we are often told that our monetary policy affects one category or another, but our objective is price stability, defined as an inflation rate which is close to, but below, 2% for the whole of the euro area, not necessarily for one specific country. that is how our monetary policy should be judged: whether in the medium term we reach this objective. i would like to thank commission vice—president dombrovskis, and all of you, for this very relevant and useful debate. the debate shows that, while we are now seeing the positive results of our policies, we should not be complacent, but should rather strive for continued improvement. i apologise in advance that, given the short time i have, i cannot comment on each and every statement, but let me touch on some of the issues that you raised. one issue raised by several honourable members concerns the effects that our monetary policy has on the distribution of income and wealth. so let me say a few words about the effects of quantitative easing (qe). it is quite clear that qe raises asset prices. the holders of assets are generally wealthy institutions or wealthy people, so in the short run you have a worsening of distribution. at the same time, to the extent that qe is successful, it increases employment – as i have said, and i am going to say it again – and it is by far the most powerful measure for decreasing inequality in any economic system. from this viewpoint, even though in the short run one has some negative consequences, in the medium and long term the positive consequences outweigh, very consistently and significantly, any short-term negative concerns. this has been shown, by the way, in several studies. the best way to decrease inequality is to increase employment, and that is what we have done, contributing to increasing employment by 7.5 million jobs over three-and-a-half years. when we look at wage growth – and that is very important for us because it is, in a sense, what tells us whether inflation is moving towards our objective in the medium term – annual growth in terms of compensation per employee increased has gradually from 1.1% in the second quarter of 2016 to 1.7% now. it is still below its historical average, which is 2.1%, so we have to be more patient, but looking at what happens in other jurisdictions – for example the united states which is, by the way, far advanced in the business cycle – we see that wage growth picks up in the end. the recent data in the usa show exactly this. we have to be aware that we have weak productivity growth, ongoing impacts of labour market reforms implemented in some countries during the crisis and certainly a much bigger labour supply coming from stronger migration flows and higher participation rates. participation rates of women and older people especially have increased considerably. also, the low-inflation environment that has prevailed for a long time is now influencing current negotiations. and, by the way, one thing that is quite important in explaining this light response by wages is that even though we had a significant increase in employment, when we go and look at the quality of this increase in employment we see a lot of part-time and temporary arrangements. i am listing all these factors, because they are explanations of why the nominal wage-growth response is going to be lower than we had expected. but we know by looking at other jurisdictions which had, by and large, the same problems that, in the end, nominal wages are going to go up, and they are going up, albeit at a subdued rate. as regards the effects of our monetary policy, some speakers questioned the effectiveness of this policy. we have estimated that our measures have made a substantial impact on the economic performance of the euro area. considering all the measures taken between 2014 (and even before, in 2013) and october 2017, the overall impact on eu area real gdp growth is 1.9%: 1.9 percentage points over three years. one member pointed out that investment is still low. we are coming from very, very low levels of private investment but, if anything, over the past three or four quarters, private investment has picked up and it is actually increasing at a much more satisfactory rate than in the past. since the end of may 2014, lending rates for households and non-financial firms have declined significantly. there is one thing i said in the introductory statement which is very important: during the crisis we observed widely differing lending rates by banks in different parts of the euro area, but this difference has now shrunk and rates are very close nowadays, as are growth rates, by the way. one measure we often look at to determine the strength of the growth process and expansion is how different the growth rates are in different parts of the euro area. well, the degree of difference now is something like we had in 1995—1996. in other words, it is a historical low. all countries nowadays are growing. by the way, some members questioned the effectiveness of our monetary policy for smes but, in fact, the lending conditions for smes have improved significantly across all sectors and countries. the gradual recovery in loan growth is continuing. the recovery started about four years ago and then really picked up, and it is continuing, though we are not seeing anything like we had before the crisis. so growth rates in lending are good, but nothing euphoric like we saw before the crisis. one point that was made was that we are focused on buying southern countries’ bonds. that is not true. we do not favour certain countries over others in the implementation of our programme. our purchases are guided by the ecb’s capital key, which takes into account gdp and population. but if one focuses on purchases at specific points in time, for example on 2017 only, this is bound to yield wrong interpretations. the overall stock of euro system holdings is the relevant metric for any assessment of the programme, and not the recent purchase flows. so, in fact, if you look at the stock, you will see that, as far as german bonds are concerned, we are above the capital key for that country. by and large, one should consider the design of the programme: it is flexible and the distribution of actual purchases on any given day often deviates from the ecb capital key. but just consider: this was in the original design of the programme when we had countries like greece, whose bonds we did not purchase. of course, then, we had to deviate from the capital key. some other observations concerned the side effects of our monetary policy. i just wish to reiterate that our measures are proving effective but, at the same time, we are aware of potential side effects and we have to differentiate between the various ways in which they affect economic actors. for example, for individual savers, an accommodative monetary policy means that they accrue fewer nominal returns on their savings. however, such a policy also supports economic expansion and this bolsters employment, income, returns on investment and tax revenues. it therefore benefits households in their capacity as workers, entrepreneurs, investors, borrowers and taxpayers. there is no one specific country that has benefited most from our monetary policy. everybody has benefited. public sectors in all countries saved billions on interest rate payments; private sectors across countries and sectors saved billions on interest rate payments to banks; and purchasers of houses could have access to mortgages with much lower interest rates than at any time in the past. this has not only boosted the construction industry but has also boosted investment for the purchase of houses. so we see benefits accruing right across society and not specifically located in one country. when the monetary policy is successful, both creditors and borrowers benefit from it. similarly, let me continue now on savers. there are several channels through which our policies affect pension and insurance schemes. beyond the effect on the liability side, it is important to see what happens on the asset side. our monetary policy has had a beneficial impact on this side of the equation, as the value of the investment portfolio has increased. but, having said that, i completely agree there is a need to put pension systems on a stable path because the survival of any single country’s pension system cannot be dependent only on the proper configuration of interest rates. it must be actuarially sensible. i have already addressed, in my introductory remarks, the issue of possible asset bubbles currently being formed in the euro area. for the time being, we have little indication that generalised financial imbalances are emerging. there are no signs of general asset-price misalignments in the euro area but some segments do need close monitoring and one of them is the prime commercial real-estate market, where we actually see stretched valuations. also, in some large cities and in some countries real-estate prices have increased at a faster pace than household incomes. this certainly requires monitoring. finally, yields in the euro area corporate bond markets, especially for some of the lower-rated issues, have started to look exceptionally low by historical standards, but what are we going to do? are we going to change monetary policy because of these side effects which are not, by the way, systemic? no, the answer is to enact macro-prudential policies which are the best tool for tackling these challenges – also given their country-specific and sector-specific remits. in late 2016, the european systemic risk board (esrb) issued a set of country-specific warnings on medium-term vulnerability in the eu residential real-estate sector. now a word about brexit. we are not party to these negotiations but we are certainly monitoring their evolution and, clearly, i agree that much depends on these negotiations and possible arrangements. of course we always prepare for any eventuality and, at the same time, we are assessing the direction, the probability and the potential impact of risk, but the bottom line is that either this transition is well managed and there will not be substantial risks, or it is not, and the risks will be there. we are certainly looking at that and we have to be prepared for that. let me also add that, as far as our role as supervisors is concerned, our good cooperation with the bank of england is important in coping with the potential risks, and especially the risks of any cliff-edge effects. certainly, transitional arrangements along the lines of the december european council guidelines could be useful to smooth out the brexit process but, as we all know, the materialisation of the transition period is still exposed to political uncertainty, and that will remain for some time to come. on financial supervision, i welcome the review of the european system of financial supervision, including changes to the european supervisory authorities. some of your comments touched upon the issue of transparency. here, let me reiterate that we are in complete agreement about the importance of ecb transparency vis-à-vis the european public. we have continuously assessed where we need to further strengthen our transparency framework, and we have demonstrated our commitment, improving our framework as necessary. just briefly, let me list a few of the actions we have taken. the accounts of governing council discussions are now published four weeks after each monetary policymaking meeting. there was none of that a few years ago. since 2015, the executive board members, as well as the chair of the supervisory board, publish their diaries covering professional meetings with external parties. none of that was in place until a few years ago. and in 2016 we decided to disclose the agreement on net financial assets (anfa). last year we also published the text of the emergency liquidity assistance agreement. we have announced transparency in relation to our purchase programme, especially transparency on the corporate sector purchase programme. some of you made reference to the european ombudsman’s recommendations on the interaction of members of the ecb decision-making bodies, including myself, with the group of 30 (g30). we have certainly taken note of the ombudsman’s letter and we will respond in time, but let us remember that the european ombudsman has already concluded that the ecb must conduct dialogue with market participants and that there is no evidence that the g30 meeting could have directly influenced, or have had an adverse impact on, the ecb’s supervisory tasks. the ombudsman has also confirmed that the ecb has a robust system of safeguards in place to manage its contacts with the financial sector. again on transparency, we publish on our website extensive documentation on all these interactions with markets. we disclose agendas and summaries of the discussions, so i can assure you that the ecb is, and remains, committed to reviewing, adjusting and updating our transparency framework. one or two speakers touched on bitcoin and other cryptocurrencies. let me first say that we are not observing a systemically relevant holding of digital currencies by supervised institutions – by banks, in other words. actually, the credit institutions established in the european union are showing a limited appetite for digital currencies like bitcoin, notwithstanding the high level of public interest. however, recent developments, such as the listing of bitcoin futures contracts by us exchanges, could lead european banks too to hold positions in bitcoin, and therefore we will certainly look at that. however, we should understand that bitcoin and other digital currencies are in the unregulated space and should be regarded as very risky assets. virtual currencies are subject to high volatility and their prices are entirely speculative. banks should measure the risk of any holdings of digital currencies in their portfolio accordingly. right now, digital currencies are not subject to a specific supervisory approach. work is under way in the single supervisory mechanism to identify potential prudential risks that these digital assets could pose to supervised institutions. there were some other specific points. we are going to consider the possibility of having a charlemagne commemorative coin. on monetary financing in hungary, we will assess the existence of monetary financing in our report. as you know, the ecb is accountable to the european parliament, but members of its executive board, myself included, have accepted invitations to discuss our monetary policy generally and broadly in national parliaments, so i would be glad to accept an invitation from the irish parliament if i were to receive it. i think i have gone through most of your questions. thank you.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank in particular president draghi and vice-president dombrovskis for joining us in this debate and, of course, all the colleagues who have taken part, especially the alternative rapporteurs a mureşan, loones, torvalds, papadimoulis and scott cato with whom we have been discussing this report. but i wanted to use this last minute to address the eurogroup. europe is demanding more democracy every day. the european citizens, at every election, are demanding more transparency, more accountability, more public debate, a greater capacity to know and discuss european policies. in the coming weeks, in the coming months, we have before us the discussion to fill several vacancies at the ecb. and that is why i dare to address the eurogroup, representing the majority of this house, to demand that it send us a list of candidates that parliament can discuss; a list that also incorporates gender balance and that allows citizens, through parliamentary debate, a deep knowledge of the different candidates, of the different profiles; a list that allows all europeans to take ownership of the evolution of the ecb. so, although i would have some additional requirements on a personal level, i will stick to that: we need to bring europe closer to the citizens, we need to democratize europe more and we need to dignify this parliament.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the next item is the debate on the commission statement on the manipulation of scientific studies by multinationals following emissions tests on monkeys and humans by the german car industry (2018/2565 ((rsp))
in writing. the automobile industry has fallen to its lowest point since it became known that volkswagen, bmw and daimler used monkeys and people in experiments, the results of which they concealed as harmful to health. like tobacco in its day, this industry lies. the brands are manipulating 11 million vehicles, and they're taking us for fools. the automobile industry does not care about the more than 70,000 premature deaths caused by emissions from fuels, mainly diesel, with extreme pollutant levels in more than 130 cities in 23 states since 2103. the oil lobby is their biggest ally. 78% of the oil consumed in europe is used in road transport, the only industrial sector that does not reduce its ghg emissions and continues to increase them. but the most gory thing is the high degree of subsidies that fuel gets. according to the imf, more than $5.3 trillion, or 6.5 percent of global gdp. with these fellows, the automotive industry is rampaging unpunished, undermining our health and destroying the planet. a zero-emission drive change will come when the vicious relationship with the oil lobby, sustained by overwhelming state subsidies, is broken.
madam president, harmonizing the minimum rate of corporation tax and vat, more boldly identifying and combating tax havens and applying the oecd protocol to avoid the relocation of profits when taxing - known as beps - are the recipes advocated by experts to improve taxation in the union. competing to attract taxpayers, no one wins. we are all losing the ability to finance public policies, and these cuts too often affect our social model. we european federalists also want a european ministry of finance and a european treasury. there are models which regulate the relationship between central farms and linked autonomous farms in a very reasonable way, such as the one we use in the basque country and navarre with the concert and agreement systems. these systems, in addition to determining contributions according to the competences that each one exercises, favour responsibility, are an anti-deficit tool, prevent corruption and are a stimulus to create policies to promote the real economy, as this house has recognized on several occasions.
member of the commission. – madam president, i am glad we are meeting tonight to finalise the adoption of the revised european union emission trading system (ets) directive, creating a solid framework for the european carbon market for the next decade. the european union ets remains the most important instrument to realise our ambition of a reduction of at least 40% in greenhouse gas emissions within the european union by 2030. with the political agreement reached in early november last year, we can proudly show to our citizens and to the world that the european union is delivering and turning political words into legal commitments. the trilogue agreement on this proposal is the result of a long, complex and thorough negotiation process that necessarily involved compromises from all sides. the support and active engagement of the rapporteur, ms girling, and also of the shadow rapporteurs, mr belet, ms guteland, mr gerbrandy, ms konečná, mr eickhout, ms evi and ms d’ornano, was crucial in this regard. i would like wholeheartedly to thank ms girling for her skillful work on this challenging file and congratulate her on the result. only the constructive spirit of the negotiators of both institutions made it possible to reach a solid compromise and i am happy that the commission could facilitate this trilogue agreement as an ‘honest broker’. as i said, the agreement required compromise from all parties involved. it strikes a proper balance between strengthening the european union carbon market and incentivising industry to decarbonise with innovative solutions and renewable energy, while being mindful of the specific challenges of lower-income member states, in particular regarding the modernisation of their energy systems. the european union ets is a great example of a forward-looking regulation where european legislation enables innovation and modernisation of our energy system. the european parliament has greatly contributed to the final shape of the trilogue outcome. each side of the triangle of issues at the core of the discussion clearly carries the european parliament’s signature. the political impetus for strengthening the european union ets originated in the european parliament. the temporary doubling of the feeding rate for the market stability reserve and the limitation set for the validity of allowances in the reserve will ensure that market balance will be restored swiftly and that the carbon price creates incentives for long-term low-carbon investments. regarding the free allocation to avoid carbon leakage, a free allocation buffer of around 450 million allowances was created, at parliament’s request, to avoid a cross-sectoral correction factor. this provides european industry with certainty in terms of free allocation and a reliable planning horizon. and finally, because of the european parliament’s insistence, the modernisation provisions will also enable activities fostering a just transition of labour on the way towards a low-carbon economy; and, as an additional safeguard for investments, no support from the modernisation fund will be granted to coal-related energy generation, with the exception of district heating in bulgaria and romania. i could continue this list, referring to other issues such as a larger innovation fund, but i think that, together, we can be proud of the result of our joint effort to agree on an improved and robust architecture for the renewed european union ets. i invite you to lend your support to the political agreement in tomorrow’s vote to ensure that the legislation enters swiftly into force and the necessary changes are in place by january 2021. there is no time to lose in the european transition to a low-carbon economy. this is what we have promised to our citizens. this is what they expect from all of us.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, the energy transition is also a matter of justice and sharing between the countries of the north and the countries of the south. and it is a pity that this rather weak report has not taken much account of it. in line with the paris agreement, the european union could have turned its emissions trading scheme into a powerful instrument for climate and solidarity. some ideas for the future: that half of the auction revenues be allocated to climate action in vulnerable countries; that the aviation sector contribute to the 2030 climate target at the same level as other sectors and that those revenues go to climate action in vulnerable countries; that international shipping contribute based on emissions generated in, to or from european ports; that the zero emission factor of biomass be limited to waste and waste to avoid land grabbing and deforestation in the south. the energy transition in europe cannot be done at the expense of others, but in solidarity with others.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president we know that the energy transition is much more than a change in technologies, and that it is also a change in models. scientific and technological innovation certainly has a very important role to play, but it must be accompanied by a profound change in the energy system and by innovations also at the social level, for example, that citizens are the main and central actors in this energy transition. the report is born of an original sin, in our view, which is the concept of technological neutrality. i mean, we're doing the same research today on fossil fuels as we are on photovoltaics. what they're doing is they're painting coal green; they're painting a gas windmill; or they're putting a vacuum cleaner on a thermal power plant and calling it clean coal. it is not enough to cherish the illusion of false solutions, nor is it enough to rely on the market. to encourage this clean energy innovation, it is essential to set ambitious targets - something this house and the european union as a whole do not do, because there is an inconsistency between words and deeds. last month in this house the major groups agreed to set targets for energy efficiency and renewable energy of only 35%, which are not binding on the member states, i.e. little more than what the market trends indicate. sectors such as renewable innovation or energy efficiency need clear signals of public commitment, which is why we advocate that they be strongly supported by the public sector.
madam president, clean energy innovation must be a driver to meet our climate and energy objectives, and also to seize the competitive opportunities presented by clean and affordable energy, thus ensuring european leadership in renewable energy. this is essential to phase out fossil fuel subsidies, and to channel those resources towards the efficient decarbonisation of the system. the establishment of stable regulatory frameworks and the coordination of the various instruments that promote energy and avoid duplication are necessary. we must not forget that this innovation must reach all citizens and especially those affected by energy poverty. finally, this innovation in the energy transition should be shared and exported to third countries, facilitating access to clean energy. this too must be part of european leadership in the world.
madam president, i have to ask you. the commission's vice-president, mr timmermans, insists that he sees no problem with the functioning of the rule of law and the separation of powers in the spanish state. it will be because it will seem normal for a minister of justice to advance in the media decisions that only concern the judiciary; or for the government to call the magistrates of the constitutional court to try to influence their decisions. it is because it seems irrelevant that such attitudes have led judges for democracy to denounce these interferences today. it would also seem very much in line with the separation of powers for the courts to tell a parliament how to interpret its own regulations; and it would certainly seem very much in line with fundamental rights for a judge to keep members of the government of catalonia in pretrial detention for their pro-independence ideology, as he acknowledges in his files, which for this and other reasons is a real demolition of the rule of law. there is no blind man who does not want to see. the problem is that mr timmermans, as the commissioner responsible for the rule of law and fundamental rights, is not only obliged to look, but also to look, and to do so without any double standards.
madam president, i would like to denounce once again the judicial catastrophe in spain. tomorrow marks 100 days since the forced exile of the legitimate government of catalonia; today marks 112 days since the imprisonment of sànchez and cuixart, dignified and peaceful social leaders, and 95 days since the imprisonment of former european parliament member and catalan vice-president oriol junqueras and joaquim forn, the minister for the interior. all without trial and with ideological accusations. spain is abandoning democracy in catalonia. and the mexican state is abandoning her, too. twelve journalists killed in 2017 and more than 100,000 missing since 2006. with total impunity. two states in democratic decomposition: spain and mexico. and the european parliament, which condemns hundreds of cases, is silent. how long are we democrats going to be embarrassed by an institution like ours that clearly breaches its founding commitments?
mr president, prime minister plenković, welcome back to the european parliament and welcome to this forum about the future of the european union. we first heard ireland – a veteran, 45 years in the european union – and now we have croatia, the newest accession. both have histories of success and progress, most notably in the case of croatia overcoming terrible episodes of war and conflict, which is yet to be completed, with the cross-border tensions with slovenia. many of us here are convinced that europe, the european union, has been in a protracted crisis, dragging its feet and hounded by nationalists, populists and europhobes. and do you know what? many of us here think the problem is about the council. it is about a lack of vision to face, in a european fashion, the eurozone needs, globalisation and, most notably, the refugee crisis. it is about a lack of solidarity, and also of backing for the democratic principle of spitzenkandidaten and transnational lists. many of us here in the european parliament would uphold a majority backing this democratic principle. it is about time that the european council did its part of the job. is it ready to either go european or face nationalist regression? that is the question.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam commissioner, we have already spoken here of figures and the human faces of women and girls: 200 million girls and women who have had their physical integrity destroyed by genital mutilation. this brutal practice is not unique to other continents. in europe too, there are 500 000 women and girls who have been subjected to these practices, even at national level: in my own country, spain, there are 17 000 girls at risk of female genital mutilation. this is a brutal practice. we are talking about the worst form of gender violence that exists at the moment and - as i say - we are not alien to it. the commissioner has therefore been talking about this strategy in the european union in which we must put all our efforts and our will to improve the quality of the actions that are being carried out at the moment: the training of medical staff; the training of education staff; making it possible to prevent this situation from happening in europe. but we must also, through the european union's cooperation policy and foreign policy, maintain our resolve in this area to prevent women in the world from suffering such an immense perversion, because we are talking - again - about the worst form of gender-based violence. and it is also one of the reasons why women are seeking asylum in the european union and therefore we need to speed up the process in this regard and ensure that all women seeking asylum in the european union can have their status as women refugees to prevent this reality from continuing and from continuing to arise as an inevitable reality in the world. it is the worst manifestation of gender-based violence and there must be a european strategy on the matter. the united nations says we can end this reality in a generation. if there is a will, it is in our hands to put an end to it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, female genital mutilation is without a doubt a form of violence against girls and women. it is a violation of women’s rights. therefore there must be no place at all for that practice in our societies and no tolerance towards those who still carry it out or justify it. but do we want to eradicate it only with law enforcement and criminal proceedings? working together with communities is key to achieving the abandonment of this practice. families from practising communities who live in europe must have the opportunity to participate in debates about sexuality, women’s rights and female mutilation. we know that the active involvement of schools, professionals and men in this debate is fundamental to break the silence that surrounds this harmful practice. let me give catalonia as a clear example of working hand-in-hand with communities to eradicate fgm. in our country we have taken great steps in this direction and we have it in mind to keep doing so. we know that building trust between communities and professionals is a slow process that needs commitment from every stakeholder, and sound interprofessional and inter—administrative coordination to detect, analyse and intervene in cases of risk. it is also vital to establish contacts with ngos working in the countries of origin and to support them so that they can follow up on the girls who live in europe when they travel to visit their families, when the risk of genital mutilation is higher. so let us together put an end to fgm. it is our issue too.
madam president, commissioner, eradicating genital mutilation is a long-term task which will only succeed if we approach it from the perspective of human rights, child protection and gender policies. prevention is the key. for it to be effective, it is essential that the communities that incorporate at-risk populations participate in a task that concerns us all. it should focus on community and intercultural integration and be supported by networking of social, health and education professionals. we cannot make the mistake of stigmatising or creating a double victimhood for those threatened by fgm. convincing and empowering from a work that focuses on deactivating the beliefs that give rise to this practice are the keys to a professional action guide prepared by the basque institute of women, emakunde, which is offering good results. how is the exchange of good practice in this field being organised, commissioner, so as to enrich the approach we take to genital mutilation in the european union?
madam president, 200 million women and girls have been the victims of female genital mutilation, 500 000 of whom live here on our european continent. this year, three million girls may again be victims of this atrocity. it can never be justified by religion or honor or tradition or custom. it's violence and it's a crime. it is the most extreme violence against human rights. a dark room, a dark hut in the countryside, a broken glass, a knife, a razor blade, a few thorns from a wild bush are enough for this atrocity, which causes - as we have said here - insurmountable pain for life, that the woman is insensitive from that moment on to sexual pleasure, infections, trauma, physical and psychological pain, unbearable menstrual pains in some cases and, in many cases, also death as a result. it was african women who called for zero tolerance against fgm at the united nations and it was they who have been on the front lines of eradication and that is why i end with a few words from one of these african women: "my daughter is five years old and she will remain intact. she won't miss a day of school because menstruation consumes her with pain. he'll be able to play and run without fear of breaking his stitches. he will never curse being born a woman. today we have an opportunity here to cooperate, to protect and to eradicate female genital mutilation from the world. we have an opportunity to bet on the culture of peace and to end the culture of violence.
madam president, we are speaking today for the more than 200 million women and girls who have suffered female genital mutilation, because it is the most serious violation of human rights. and not just one, but several: the right to safety, to health, to physical integrity, and most important of all, the right to life. no more excuses. i don't care if it's cultural, but how can a parent tell a little girl they're gonna mutilate her and then put her four brothers on sentry duty to watch her? how can they hit her with an electrical wire and shrink her so that the mutilationist can come and remove her clitoris? this girl's body, janeth, survived, but her soul got in the way. in more than twenty-nine countries in africa and asia, it is still practiced. and the laws are not being followed. and we can't say it's something far away. there are more than 500,000 girls who have suffered this on european soil. in my country, spain, 18,000 girls are at risk of being mutilated. that's why we have to fight hard. and it's not just about zero tolerance, it's also about zero impunity. for this, it is very important to train police officers, judges, asylum officials, doctors, educators... prevention, education and awareness are key. but all this must go hand in hand with criminal law. the victims, most of whom are minors, have the right to live in safety and the state must take care of them. it is not a local problem, ladies and gentlemen, it is a global problem, and that is why we need to be all on board to prevent millions of girls from losing not only their dignity but also their lives every day.
madam president, today in the european union, knives threaten to mutilate more than 180 000 girls, here in our territory. female genital mutilation is a terrible threat to the health and integrity of the girls and women who suffer it, because it not only has enormous consequences, such as cysts, infections, infertility, but it is a very serious violation of human rights, which also stems from an aberrant view of women: they are seen as the property of fathers and husbands and are considered as objects that incite to sin. ignoring or downplaying it is anything but progressive, fellas. the united nations envisages the eradication of this practice in its agenda 2030 and the istanbul convention obliges all signatory countries to criminalize female genital mutilation and protect girls, that is, it obliges us, the european union, to prevent and protect and to prosecute and punish those who perpetrate any form of violence against women. gentlemen, i believe that the feminist cause should be global, not local, and i encourage you all to share in this rejection because it is also our problem.
on 6 february we celebrate the international day against female genital mutilation, a brutal practice that affects 200 million girls and women worldwide, including in the eu, where an estimated 500 000 women and girls have been victims of this barbarity. this year three million girls may become new victims of this atrocity, which admits no justification for tradition, religion, honor and much less to increase the value of a woman as a mere commodity. it's the worst form of gender violence that exists right now. it is a crime against fundamental human rights such as physical integrity and sexual and reproductive health, because these women suffer terrible pain throughout their lives. the un claims that we can end this reality in a generation. we need a european strategy aimed at improving prevention and training of medical and educational staff, and supporting the fight against this inhumane practice as an integral part of the eu's foreign and cooperation and development policies. it is also important to speed up the procedures for granting asylum to women who seek it in order to escape this perversion.
on 6 february we celebrate the international day against female genital mutilation, a brutal practice that affects 200 million girls and women worldwide, including in the eu, where an estimated 500 000 women and girls have been victims of this barbarity. this year three million girls may become new victims of this atrocity, which admits no justification for tradition, religion, honor and much less to increase the value of a woman as a mere commodity. it's the worst form of gender violence that exists right now. it is a crime against fundamental human rights such as physical integrity and sexual and reproductive health, because these women suffer terrible pain throughout their lives. the un claims that we can end this reality in a generation. we need a european strategy aimed at improving prevention and training of medical and educational staff, and supporting the fight against this inhumane practice as an integral part of the eu's foreign and cooperation and development policies. it is also important to speed up the procedures for granting asylum to women who seek it in order to escape this perversion.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this opportunity to express its concern about the situation in zimbabwe and the role the european union was playing. we reject any external operation, as well as interference in zimbabwe's internal affairs for mere geostrategic purposes that only serve the economic interests of the european union. let's face it, people suffer from problems. poverty, unemployment, chronic malnutrition are the main problems facing this country. and we believe that these problems can only be solved by public policies of the government, supported, of course, by international solidarity and cooperation. zimbabwe is also one of the most indebted countries in the world and it illustrates, once again, that we need to approach debt from a human rights-based approach and its long-term sustainability, as well as from fair standards that redefine lending mechanisms. without this, we will continue to be incoherent, using our statements on third countries as a stick and carrot in the interests of economic interests and ignoring the real problems of an entire people.
mr president, some of us here in parliament attended the last acp-european union joint parliamentary assembly in haiti and there was a special debate on zimbabwe. this was no surprise because, after 37 years in a row, president mugabe was compelled to resign, being the second longest serving ruler in africa, after president obiang of equatorial guinea. the legacy is repression, isolation and corruption, and there is an expectation of the new transition government although it is chaired by a former vice-president of mugabe, mr mnangagwa. so the situation means requires a very clear message from the european union. in order to lift the current dispensation of arms embargo, freezing of assets and lack of cooperation from the european union towards zimbabwe, there has to be european union involvement and oversight, and the involvement of this parliament, making sure, by watching over them, that the elections next june are free and fair.
madam president, it is true that in the last few years turkey has faced unprecedented challenges, such as the arrival of hundreds of thousands of refugees, an increasing number of terrorist attacks, a failed coup d’état, and a troubled and unstable neighbourhood, but this should never justify the deterioration in democracy, the rule of law and human rights that we are seeing in turkey. this should never be an excuse to violate, on a massive scale, fundamental freedoms and basic rights, and it can never be a reason for us, eu citizens, to stay silent on all these worrying trends. turkey is a candidate country and, as such, it should comply with eu values and principles, which have been deeply eroded by the measures taken under the state of emergency that has been in place for more than one-and-a-half years now, while the opposition has been sidelined and silenced. i am thinking especially of the people’s democratic party situation. regarding afrin, i share the concerns over the turkish military operation, as it could seriously undermine the resumption of peace talks in geneva. i am also concerned about the fate of the civilian population on the ground and i am convinced that the kurdish people, especially after their efforts in combating isis and other fundamentalists, do not deserve to be attacked as they are being. once again, peace in the region will not be achieved without a permanent political solution to the kurdish question.
madam president, my colleagues have already described in detail the present and future consequences of the turkish offensive against afrin, so i will now go straight to the commission and report on the declaration which we have put forward, which was put forward by members from four political groups, and which has been signed by exactly one hundred representatives of this house and which we have tabled here today. we urge the commission and the member states to redouble their efforts to bring turkey to an immediate halt to its offensive. we call for a real and inclusive revival of dialogue within the framework of the geneva process. we recognise that the fight of the kurdish forces against isis also contributes to european security. the turkish attack, on the other hand, constitutes a very serious threat to the security of the whole region. mrs mogherini, mr hahn, your voice must be raised much, much louder in the face of erdogan. today we perceive it more as silence and equidistance, and in the face of such serious facts that is not an option, it is not understandable or acceptable.
madam president, turkey must hear loud and clear that any relationship between the european union and turkey, present or future, will be conditional on the lifting of the state of emergency and the cessation of the systematic violations we are experiencing in the areas of human rights, the rule of law, freedom of expression and respect for minorities. hundreds of thousands of people, activists, judges, officials, journalists have been imprisoned, accused or have had their freedom violated in recent months. in recent weeks, also those who have dared to criticize military operations with a huge potential destabilizing in syria, in an area that is already boiling. but our message has to be very clear. this is not a battle between europe and turkey. and europe is not turkey's enemy. this is a battle of democratic european citizens defending democracy, supporting the turkish democrats.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, let me start by saying that what we see in venezuela is obviously, first and foremost, a political crisis, but it is also an economic, social and refugee crisis, with serious repercussions on neighbouring countries, starting with colombia and brazil. everything we are doing as the european union aims at a peaceful and democratic solution to all these different layers of the crisis, through credible and serious negotiations. as we speak, other efforts are ongoing to resume negotiations, and we can just hope that, this time, we will see some credibility and some concrete steps and openness in place. that has not been the case so far but it is never too late. when we last discussed venezuela in this plenary, last september, we indicated four main areas where steps needed to be taken: an agreed calendar and conditions for credible elections; the facilitation of an emergency access plan for external assistance; the liberation of political prisoners; and respect for democratically elected institutions, notably the national assembly. unfortunately, progress was not made on any of these points. throughout this period we have repeatedly engaged, all together as the european union and together with our member states, in a well-coordinated approach. in several meetings with our venezuelan interlocutors we have discussed the need to respect democratic principles, democratic institutions, human rights and fundamental freedoms. we have called for serious engagement and flexibility in the ongoing negotiations to achieve a political agreement as a matter of urgency. again, let me stress that talks are restarting, hopefully within hours. it was with a heavy heart that member states decided to adopt targeted restrictive measures, in the absence of concrete results and in view of the constant deterioration of the situation. it is the first time that we have imposed measures of this kind in a latin american context, and the decision was not taken lightly, as you can imagine. on 13 november, the council adopted together targeted, gradual and reversible restrictive measures. these comprised a ban on the export of arms and equipment for internal repression, and a framework decision for a travel ban and assets freeze. two months later, the council recognised the lack of progress in the national dialogue and the worrying deterioration of the political and social situation in the country. as a consequence, the council adopted a list of seven individuals subject to these measures. these targeted restrictive measures do not harm the people of venezuela, but are directed at seven individuals who are responsible for undermining democratic principles and the rule of law and for human rights violations. our measures are a signal to the authorities of venezuela, an invitation to engage seriously towards a negotiated solution to the crisis and to reverse the moves that have called into question venezuela’s constitutional order. we continue to monitor events on the ground and we stand ready to take appropriate measures in one way or another if the situation in the country evolves, with the constant aim of supporting democratic and negotiated solutions. the recent decision of the government of venezuela to declare the spanish ambassador persona non grata is wrong and unacceptable, first and foremost because closing diplomatic channels does not help at a time when it is more important than ever to keep them open and seek a solution. we expect the government of venezuela to show genuine engagement in the negotiations and openness to compromise. we also hope that the opposition can work in a united and constructive manner. this is what the country needs in order to address the current challenges. both parties should agree on a mutually acceptable date for the presidential elections. unilateral decisions will only create more polarisation and new obstacles to a peaceful solution. it is also essential to set up guarantees to ensure free, transparent and credible elections. no artificial conditions should be imposed to limit the participation of political parties. the supreme court has decided to block the participation of mesa de la unidad democrática in the elections, and clearly this goes against the goal of free, fair and inclusive elections. the people’s trust in elections can be regained only through a credible electoral process, with the lifting of bans on political opponents, with independent international observers and a balanced composition of the national electoral council. the future of venezuela should be determined by its people. this is what we are asking of the venezuelan authorities and all national political forces: the future of venezuela should be determined by its people. we do not take sides in venezuela’s domestic debate but we do ask for this debate to be democratic and inclusive, in line with the constitution of the country. we see that the people of venezuela are suffering, including the many european union citizens who are also venezuelan citizens. we have a stake in this. everything we do is to encourage and support the country to come out of this political, economic and social crisis. we are also concerned about the progressive deterioration of the social situation. the reports we are receiving from the united nations agencies are extremely worrying. more than one million people are currently food insecure and the percentage of children affected by global acute malnutrition has reached emergency levels. the lack of medicines is estimated at around 90% by the national chamber of pharmacists. diseases such as malaria and diphtheria that had disappeared are now spreading across the country. and there are no signs of recovery from the economic crisis. according to the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr), more than 1.5 million venezuelans have already left the country. i want to reiterate that the repercussions in the region – on the fragile process in colombia, on brazil, on the regional organisations that are trying to move forward the regional integration process of latin america and the caribbean – are particularly worrying. the european civil protection and humanitarian aid operations department (dg echo) is present in bogotá and deploys regular missions to venezuela and bordering regions to evaluate the humanitarian situation, including the humanitarian conditions of the numerous venezuelans who are fleeing the country to neighbouring countries. we are exploring all possibilities to develop our support, together with member states and also with other donors and partner agencies. let me stress once again that we will adapt our policies to any change in the situation in venezuela, in one sense or the other. we need to see progress in the negotiations. i believe progress is still possible. it is a matter of political will. it is in the hands of the parties. as i mentioned, the government has a clear responsibility to show flexibility and to engage seriously in these negotiations, and we hope to see real, concrete, encouraging steps.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament must once again raise its voice to denounce a new attempt to usurp national sovereignty by calling elections which do not meet the minimum democratic standards and which will only aggravate the already dramatic political, economic, humanitarian and human rights situation in venezuela. yesterday the venezuelan penal forum denounced mass arrests last week, including that of the respected and prestigious politician enrique aristeguieta, 84. and yesterday four journalists had to leave the country again. i think the comment made by the us secretary of state on his latin american tour is a very pertinent reflection: can the world stand by while democracy is being destroyed in venezuela? it is clear that the sanctions adopted by the european union have made a dent in the government. the declaration of persona non grata and the expulsion of the spanish ambassador, madam high representative, require, beyond the solidarity and sympathy which are welcome, a strong reaction from the european union. because an attack on one member state is an attack on the union as a whole. the european parliament, in the resolution it is to vote on next thursday, is to ask for the list of sanctioned persons to be extended to include those most responsible for serious human rights violations. but beyond the sanctions, madam high representative, it is important that the european union mobilizes with the international community, with the lima group and with the regional actors to, as you said, pursue the venezuelan people to speak again through a credible process, an inclusive process, a process without traps, without disqualifications, with all political parties and with the international community. without these premises, the european union cannot give credibility or legitimacy to these elections and must express its solidarity with those who are risking their lives every day for the cause of freedom.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i believe that the european parliament has already said many times, and i will say it again, that the maduro government, the government of venezuela, is seriously violating human rights and does not comply with the rules of a state of law, of a democracy. we know this, and unfortunately there are too many examples and proofs of what i have just said. this parliament has said it many times and i say it again. second conviction i want to convey to you, ladies and gentlemen. the so-called chavista revolution and maduro's revolution have failed, to the point that half the population is living in a very serious humanitarian crisis. what i regret most is that this so-called revolution is called socialist, because it is neither revolution nor socialist. for me, socialism is freedom. it's equality, but it's also freedom. and a third conviction i want to pass on to you. beyond the condemnations, beyond the sanctions, ladies and gentlemen, my conviction and that of my group is that only a serious dialogue, a national agreement between the government and the opposition, will bring a democratic and peaceful solution to the democratic crisis in venezuela. and i think it is important to demand, as mrs mogherini has rightly said, that the people be given a voice - with guarantees, of course, with transparency, with equality, but the people must be given a voice. and an agreement that is being reached in these very hours on those elections can be final. let us wait for that agreement to be reached so that we can reach a resolution that is consistent with the times and with the european position on this matter.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mrs mogherini, as we speak in this house, venezuela is bleeding, a victim of a corrupt and incompetent tyranny. while we're debating, the venezuelan people have no food, no medicine, no freedom. they have no future and it is our duty to help them to recover it. they, the venezuelan people. the last time there was an election in venezuela with minimal guarantees, the opposition won by a landslide. since then, maduro has manipulated, repressed and ignored the constitution. anyone who defies him ends up disqualified, exiled, imprisoned or killed. because he's interested in nothing but power. that is why europe cannot recognize fraudulent elections whose aim is to turn venezuela into a one-party dictatorship, as in cuba. we cannot recognize them when the regime has disqualified almost all the opposition leaders and their main alliance, when they are controlled by an electoral body that is the executive arm of the regime, a regime that has just executed also óscar pérez, as it murdered many venezuelans who went out on the street in defense of their dignity. this call for presidential elections is a new mockery of the dialogue process taking place in the dominican republic, a process that is once again being instrumentalized by maduro to serve his only interest: to perpetuate himself in power and to preserve his corrupt network and that of his environment while the people suffer the consequences of his failed model. if the regime believed in dialogue, it would allow venezuelans to express themselves in real elections: credible, transparent, free, inclusive, with international standards and with independent observers who could guarantee that they are real elections. i know that president nicolás maduro is interested in what we are debating in this parliament. that is why i say to you: let the people of venezuela decide their future, release political prisoners, open a humanitarian channel, respect the constitution and call for real elections. because then you will see that the venezuelans are not willing to put up with your incompetence and your tyranny any longer.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, madam high representative, when the european union listens to extremists, to confrontation, it does very badly. we have the case of cuba: the very people who are driving this confrontation are those who supported the common position. now we have a normalization of relations - you were recently in cuba - and a dialogue without cut-outs. the unilateral sanctions were bad news, and don't cheat, madam high representative, because they were unilateral and one-sided. and from a part of that part of the opposition, worth the redundancy. moreover, it was a direct sabotage of the talks that have been taking place between the government and the opposition for five months (since december 2011 in the dominican republic), with its president involved and with a former european president, who is mr. rodríguez zapatero, whom you should have named "special envoy for peace". it is curious, those extremists who talk about all of venezuela but do not recognize the other, because, according to the cne, the psv is the first party; that cne that gave its representation to mr. borges, who was awarded here. it only counts when his people win. some people must have a hard time trying to bring down a democratic government. they think there are still colonies, but there are no colonies, because on one side of that venezuelan people there is still the blood of liberators and they will not accept impositions from you. respect for the sovereignty of a country and a democratic government, and support for dialogue!
on behalf of the green group, mr president, madam high representative, i believe we all have an interest in dialogue finding its way in venezuela. from this point of view, we are looking forward to what may happen - as you have said - in the next few hours in the dominican republic, where we hope there will be good news. and i would urge the high representative and the european external action service to support that process, which would obviously be the most positive thing we can do at the moment. and from that point of view, i find it difficult to understand why, in the midst of this scenario, a resolution is being adopted which will not even mention in its text the dialogue that is taking place; instead, we are talking all the time about imposing more sanctions, not recognizing the elections under any circumstances, and so on and so forth. i do not understand that resolution in that context and it will therefore be very difficult for my group to sign it. what i believe is that the european union must give venezuela a perspective, and the only perspective is that of an agreement between the government and the opposition and that of dialogue. and that is what this parliament should do by supporting the work of the dominican republic group and the high representative.
mr. president, let's be honest with each other. sadly in venezuela there is no hope that anything will change. venezuela today is suffering from a pure and simple dictatorship, and any well-intentioned effort will be fruitless. it's been said here and it may be true. at this point, it is possible that maduro will achieve his goals and achieve that the opposition is divided and claudicate. that moment, under these conditions, will be the beginning of the end. they have recently expelled the ambassador of spain because they do not want annoying witnesses to the activities of a regime that has imprisoned political adversaries, that is responsible for a terrible humanitarian crisis, that they also use to appear a compassionate state that provides small public palliatives to take care of its citizens from a destitution for which it is responsible. these are old cuban recipes, which instill the idea that there is no way out of the regime. the national constituent assembly, clearly illegitimate, calls elections with previous fraudulent maneuvers to rig the result. the national electoral council, a sectarian body with no credibility, outlaws opposition parties, citing alleged violations of rules that are unacceptable as unjust and aberrant. how long, ladies and gentlemen, will the satrap maduro abuse the patience of the democratic world? ladies and gentlemen, half-words are no longer worth it, there is no room for naivety, you cannot collaborate with a dictator because we would be accomplices. but it is permissible and even obligatory to sanction the conduct of political leaders who do not respect human rights, who oppress their people, and who have no shame in enriching themselves at their expense, enslaving and impoverishing them to unacceptable levels. the european parliament cannot remain passive. we can and must publicly and forcefully condemn a totalitarian drift which is producing growing tension on the borders with its neighbours and is a factor of regional instability. the lima group is drawing up guidelines on the measures to be taken. the oas is speaking loud and clear, without any veil, and we, ladies and gentlemen, have an inexcusable obligation to denounce and condemn the excesses of maduro and his regime.
mr. president, i understand and share the exasperation of many democrats at this sort of stumbling block to venezuelan democracy that maduro represents. it is desperate that we have been trying for months to make the deal possible, but the truth is that it is still possible. and i find it very difficult to put myself in the place of the democratic opposition in venezuela, which is, however, sitting at a table trying to reach an agreement. until the venezuelan opposition gets off the table i don't see why we should have to get ahead of ourselves. all of us here know that if there is any possibility in venezuela, it is an agreement between the parties to open a democratic path and respect for human rights in venezuela. there is no other way but democratic agreement. and since it turns out that these conversations are still taking place - exasperating, yes, but they are sitting there - let's respect the democratic opposition in venezuela, let's see if an agreement is reached or not - hopefully yes! - let's analyze the agreement and then decide what we have to do. i do not think we should anticipate the failure of an agreement which may not come to pass.
mr president, the situation in venezuela is dramatic and i would remind you, mrs mogherini, that there are many ties between the venezuelan people and europe. i would like to make a kind of triple appeal here. firstly, the venezuelan government, which has unjustly declared the spanish ambassador in caracas persona non grata a few days ago. the regime must put an end to its clear totalitarian drift, which now includes the call for presidential elections without democratic guarantees and called, moreover, by an illegitimate body such as the national constituent assembly. in addition, the participation of democratic opposition parties is prohibited and there is still no freedom for political prisoners. my second appeal is to the democratic opposition in venezuela, which is being persecuted by the regime. i call on the democratic opposition, which was awarded the sakharov prize by the european parliament a few months ago, to seek unity and to be guided exclusively by the objective of achieving freedom, democracy and prosperity for the venezuelan people. my third appeal is to you, mrs mogherini, even if you are busy talking without paying attention to the debate. my third appeal is to the eeas, to you, mrs mogherini, and to the member states to pursue a genuine common european policy in relation to the crisis in venezuela. that is, there should be unity and consistency. and also, by the way, solidarity with spain. and i would like, for example, to know what specific measures you took, if the eeas summoned - as it should have done - the venezuelan ambassador in brussels to protest the expulsion of the spanish ambassador. venezuela is suffering from a very serious political, economic and social crisis, and the european union and its member states must help, in close contact with the international community and our friends in the americas, to deal with this situation and to help find a solution to a situation which must not be prolonged.
mr president, mrs mogherini, the venezuelan people are the heathens of a crisis which has its origins in the totalitarianism of the maduro regime. our first obligation is to get them the humanitarian aid they need, the aid they block from caracas, the aid that will solve the hunger, the malnutrition, the lack of medicines, of basic necessities that will not arrive by expelling ambassadors. nor with the endless speeches of the caudillo, who eats, who lives well, who gets rich. that's why his allegedly bolivarian verbiage insults the admired liberator. it does not feed, it does not cure, it does not create jobs, it does not pay pensions, it no longer convinces even the microphone that amplifies it. calling elections from a body not recognised by the international community; doing so when at a supposedly dialogue table is one of the key points of negotiation between the parties; banning parties, jailing opponents, changing the electoral rules every day are attacks on common sense, laws and fundamental rights. they deserve sanctions that should be extended to the government of venezuela and its environment. they deserve an embargo on arms and any tools that could be used for internal repression. they deserve to explore all sorts of diplomatic and economic measures, including those that could focus on the state-owned oil company. venezuela needs transparency, contrast. that is why the conditions must be created for a delegation from this parliament to support peace and fundamental rights on the ground, to promote dialogue between all the parties to a conflict which has no other way out than to change repression and dictatorship for freedom and democracy.
in writing. the possibility of reaching a solution to the terrible humanitarian and human rights crisis in venezuela is fading on the horizon. the maduro regime is now proposing, through the illegitimate national constituent assembly, the holding of early presidential elections; elections without the slightest democratic guarantees, with more than three hundred political opponents imprisoned and as many others disqualified from running for public office; elections that would be held in a space where freedom of expression and association are not respected, where the judiciary works to fulfill the political agenda of the government and where governmental measures are taken to restrict international funding of human rights ngos. the human rights watch report indicates that at least 124 people have died during incidents related to anti-government protests, and the un high commissioner for human rights himself, in his report last august, indicated that more than half of these deaths had been caused by security agents. this parliament must reject in the strongest possible terms the holding of these illegitimate elections. the eu will only be able to recognise elections based on a viable, fair and transparent electoral calendar.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – let me first of all thank you for this debate. it is timely and it is important. it is important first of all because millions of people – men, women and children – depend on the united nations relief and works agency for education, healthcare and social services, humanitarian assistance and employment. so, supporting unwra is a humanitarian duty and it is also in our collective interest for peace and security in the middle east. i would like to mention a few reasons why it is essential to support unwra, its work and why the european union not only is supporting it but is going to continue to support it and argue for continued or increased support from other international partners. firstly, the work they do is crucial for the prospects of an agreement between israel and palestine. it is a key contribution that unwra is bringing to the prospect of relaunching a credible peace process, because a just, fair, agreed and realistic solution to the refugee question is one of the parameters of for peace negotiations, with the ultimate objective of achieving a two—state solution. the work that unwra does provides the political space towards achieving a peace deal and building a palestinian state. secondly, it is a matter of regional stability. this strikes me every time when international players don’t see the reality on the ground in the countries that have been hosting, for decades; a huge number of palestinian refugees. reducing the activities of unwra would cause instability and even security threats all around the region. this is true for the west bank and gaza, but this is also true for lebanon and jordan. they are themselves facing enormous challenges on other fronts and this is obvious to all of us i believe; there is no need for me to go into details about the huge pressure that both lebanon and jordan have been facing. investing in unwra is also investing in our collective regional security. thirdly, education. the european union has always invested and will always continue to invest in the education of people and children to avoid any lost generation. for palestinian kids, this means the possibility to keep hoping, to build their own future, and to believe in their own personal lives – which is no minor thing when you are a child; and it means also fighting radicalisation. so it’s also here an investment in our own security. fourthly, unwra is particularly important for the political process in gaza, where work is ongoing, efforts are ongoing for the return of the palestinian authority, and palestinian reconciliation is essential for the prospect of a viable state of palestine. so for all these reasons, we are – and we will continue to be – strong and reliable supporters of the work of unwra. together with our member states, we are doing all we can to avoid repercussions from the us decision to ensure that unwra can continue to operate and to ensure a continued engagement from all other international actors, but also from the united states. we have already increased our support in recent times. for 2018, the european union will assist unwra by accelerating our first scheduled payment for this year, and i also count on donors around the world with whom we are in contact, including in coordination with other players. here i would mention established partners for unwra, which already has important donors, but also all those that have so far been less engaged and who can step up their efforts in order to safeguard something that can be qualified as a global public good: the work that unwra does. peace between israel and palestine will clearly be built through negotiations, which requires a commitment from the two sides, but it must also be preserved every day on the ground and this is what unwra is doing with the palestinian refugees. investing in unwra is an interest we all share and the international community and the palestinian refugees and the countries in the region can count on the european union to continue to support its work.
member of the commission. – mr president, i also welcome this timely opportunity to join some of you today to discuss unrwa, which is currently facing unprecedented challenges. the european union is convinced that the two-state solution is the only possible answer if we want to achieve lasting peace in the middle east. we believe that any solution to the israeli—arab conflict will need to include an agreed just and fair solution to the refugee question. the palestinian refugee question has existed for almost 70 years. the united nations general assembly established and mandated unrwa to provide assistance and protection to registered palestinian refugees until a just and lasting solution is found to their plight. this is the work that unrwa continues to do, laying the groundwork for future development through its work in education and health, and contributing – as the high representative has just said – to security and stability in the region. the commission will disburse our scheduled payment for 2018, which is about eur 82 million, by the end of february – much earlier than originally planned. some of our member states have also announced plans to accelerate their contributions for this year and i can tell you that we will also do so in 2019 and 2020, at least, in order to reassure unrwa from our side. it is still too early to tell you how exactly unrwa will be affected since the scope and nature of the cuts in us funding are not entirely clear. what we do know is that the eu will not be able to compensate for substantial us cuts, given the pressure on available funds. we can and will actively assist unrwa in reaching out to non—traditional donors in order to help the agency to broaden its donor base and, given the magnitude of the problem, we also need to work with host governments on how they might consider providing certain services that unrwa cannot and maybe should not provide. unrwa needs reform. some of its financial problems are structural and predate the us decision. the eu has long been calling on unrwa to review its operational and financial planning approach in order to safeguard its basic and essential core services, intended to help the most marginalised refugees. we therefore commend unrwa’s commitment to a process of comprehensive financial reforms, including measures sustaining institutional change and increasing the cost-effectiveness of its programmes. but, in order to achieve improvements, we will work on this together with – and not against – the agency. there should be no doubt that the eu is and will remain a staunch and reliable supporter of unrwa, both politically and financially. the eu and its member states are by far the largest provider of assistance to palestinian refugees – they provide around eur 460 million a year. in june 2017, a joint declaration was signed between the eu and unrwa as a framework for our financial and political support for the agency as further proof of our continued commitment, not just this year, but also in the years to come.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, madam high representative, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the united states administration has decided to freeze a substantial part of aid to the united nations agency for palestine refugees. this decision is linked to the controversial move of the us embassy from tel aviv to jerusalem. this decision has caused deep concern to the secretary-general of the united nations and, why not say it, deep concern among us. we may have differences with the united states on the paris agreement on climate change, the trans-pacific agreement, the trade and investment agreement, the appointment of arbitrators in the special groups of the world trade organization, but we are talking about people here, we are talking about millions of people: two million refugees in lebanon; almost 500 000 refugees in jordan; 540 000 refugees in syria; 1 400 000 in the gaza strip; 800 000 in the west bank. and these are people who, as the high representative reminded us, have basic needs to be met, children who must be educated and cared for and whose future is at stake. i think we must firmly support the efforts made by the commission to meet these needs in the short term and to mobilise the international community to ensure that the commitments to palestine are kept. i hope, madam vice-president, commissioner, that we can maintain the level of these commitments because the credibility of the european union on such a sensitive issue as refugees is at stake.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, on the one hand there are those who have been offering food, water, education, healthcare to parents, children and grandchildren of palestinian refugees for more than six decades and on the other hand there are those who, with a single tweet, break the status quo and blow everything up without offering any alternative. and this parliament must say very clearly, clearly and unequivocally, that unrwa has our full and effective support. our trust. and that we're going to bet that unrwa can continue to do the humanitarian work that it's doing that no one else can do. the stark reality is that today, as a result of the trump administration's decision, unrwa will stop receiving more than $500 million, and that means a real risk that unrwa will have to shut down completely, leaving more than five million human beings who need dignity, security and help stranded. as the unrwa says, dignity is priceless. the irresponsibility of the trump administration does, and it comes at a very high price. that is why i believe we must act and we will defend and support the holding of an international conference with all the actors, because all hands are needed: the european union, the member states, the whole of the international community and also the arab countries, which must fulfil their commitments. we need all hands to support unrwa, which in turn supports millions of completely helpless human beings. and supporting unrwa sends a message of hope to a region where messages of hope are not abundant. let us make that hope possible; let us act with dignity and responsibility because we are all almost lifetime in it.
mr president, to my colleagues on the left, who are of course anti-american, here in the european parliament, i want to say that if you look at the latest decision of the us administration in detail, whether it is a question of trump or not, it is obvious that unrwa continues to have the support of the united states and that it continues to receive its financial and political assistance. that's in the statement. what's happening is the agency is undergoing a reform. normal and logical. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. countries such as belgium, the netherlands and sweden have already moved forward and will increase their contributions. i hope you will also remind the arab countries that they have to do so, because they have not done so to date. of the top 20 donors, only three are arab. what the european union should do is set up an independent monitoring mission to ensure that the education and aid provided by unrwa is used to promote a culture of peace and dialogue and not that its hospitals and schools are misused to recruit future terrorists. finally, while we have this legitimate debate, let us not fall into the trap of questioning the united states' support for international relations. after all, we cannot forget that the rules-based world order we enjoy today, the one that created unrwa or the united nations high commissioner for refugees, was built and sustained by our transatlantic partners. in this context, i would like to reiterate that, whatever doubts this administration may cause some of you, i am convinced, and we must be, that the united states has not allowed and will not allow unrwa to stand alone.
mr president, society will be very interested if the transnational lists are implemented because they will change many of the things we know about politics. today we are calling again for the importance of a permanent system for the fair and transparent distribution of seats in the european parliament. we have no system and we leave the matter for the future in an incomprehensible way. this is the only bad news in this report because, finally, this proposal complies with the principle of diminishing proportionality and, of course, there is the question of transnational lists. voting for them is voting for the spirit of european integration to be restored. moving towards a greater approach of the citizen to the institutions with a europeanism, i think, if it comes out, very active. it means moving towards the overcoming of the sum of national legislation. it's thinking big. i would like to congratulate the people responsible for the report, and there are no risks involved; we can carry out this operation, we can evaluate it and only fear would paralyse us.
mr president, i would like to congratulate the two rapporteurs, because i really think that a very interesting and very appropriate report has been produced. first, because it reduces the number of seats; second, because it compensates countries that were badly treated; and third, because no country loses. but i would like to refer to the more passionate debate on transnational lists by conveying my view that i sincerely believe that a european constituency, that the double vote of europeans is good. because i am a europeanist. i believe that it is better for europe, to make more europe, to make better europe and to improve european democracy. let me give you a simple historical reflection. the founding father, jean monnet, said that europe would be built step by step. and it has been. when the european union was created, there was no parliament, ladies and gentlemen. it was created later. the european parliament was a step in the process of european integration. members of the national parliaments came to this parliament. they were not elected by the citizens, but by the members of the national parliaments. the next step was, indeed, elections throughout europe. a day to elect the european parliament, to european sovereignty. this step we are taking today, ladies and gentlemen, is a step, as jean monnet would say, towards building europe. it's for a double vote. so that citizens connect with the european idea, and hopefully a spitzenkandidat leads each political family to elect the president of the commission. that is building europe. i think that the step we are taking is an extremely important political signal in favour of this idea which is being built up little by little. it's a long story, but it's a beautiful story. it is a wonderful story of building, on the nations, a space of peace and progress. and today we are taking a step forward with this political signal calling on the council to grant the possibility in the european electoral law that europeans vote in the country on two lists, the national and the european.
mr president, transnational lists are an important step in the process towards a single european constituency. having the opportunity to vote for a list with candidates from different member states helps to create in the imagination of citizens a sense of european general interest and a feeling of belonging. transnational lists can open the window to the creation of solidarity and a redistribution of wealth and can reinforce the idea of a european public sphere. all in all, we are debating something that can strengthen democracy. we have an opportunity to reinvigorate the european project and to rethink it, especially from a bottom-up perspective – for instance, by allowing member states to assign seats to regions having legislative powers. this is today the case in the åland islands and tomorrow it could be the case in others. it is a matter of political will. today, the european parliament has a chance to deliver a beneficial, transformative proposal.
mr president, we welcome the steps being taken towards a more proportional distribution of seats between the different countries and we shall therefore vote in favour of this report. however, we believe that we must be much more ambitious, that the main problems affecting this parliament and the citizens are not the number of seats or how those seats are elected, but the lack of real democracy in the european institutions. we need more powers for the european parliament, which is the only body directly elected by europeans. if we want to combat citizens' dissatisfaction with the european project, what we really need are social and economic proposals that improve people's lives, such as tax harmonization, a european basic income, effective action against tax havens or social control of the european central bank. today marks the 26th anniversary of the maastricht treaty. the european project is being sabotaged by neoliberals. it is urgent to make a 180-degree turn in european policies and not to be content with cosmetic reforms.
madam president, building the european union, making it a global player, requires moves in two directions. we need to strengthen the european demos that exists, that unites us. and transnational lists are a good idea, because they convey and represent the spirit of what we're building. a union in which policies need a global approach, actions that will gain in cohesion by strengthening political organisations with a european dimension, perceived and acting as such. that is why we support this proposal and the principle that each of these lists should be headed by a candidate from each political family without a national surname. it's the best way to turn a problem like brexit into an opportunity. but it must also be inspired by our union's motto 'united in diversity' and built from the bottom up, from the institutions closest to its citizens. that is why the amendment signed by the chairman of our group, guy verhofstadt, is a good idea, since it opens the door to ensuring the presence, here too, of regions with legislative powers.
in writing. on 11 november 2015, the european parliament (ep) adopted its proposal to amend the 1976 act concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage, which introduces a series of measures aimed at strengthening the european dimension of elections and ensuring greater electoral equality for citizens of the union. unfortunately, since then five council presidencies (luxembourg, the netherlands, slovakia, malta and now estonia) have worked on the parliament's proposal (made in accordance with article 223 (1) tfeu) but none has transmitted to the ep formal or informal results of the council's deliberations, highlighting the member states' unwillingness to harmonise the current rule dating from 1976. we therefore ask the council once again not to block further improvements to the rules for the election of meps and, given that the dossier must be completed by next spring at the latest, to submit a decision to the ep as soon as possible.
the rapporteur. madam president, in this report, in addition to the amendments, what is being discussed is whether the commission is a body with political responsibility, answerable to parliament and to the electors, a real government of europe, as this parliament wants, or just an administrative body that speaks in parliament but is answerable to the council, that is, a puppet of european governments. if you vote for this report, you will be voting for a european government; if you vote against it, you will be voting for a commission of the governments of the countries of europe. they're two very different models. president juncker warned us yesterday that there are voices within the council who want to eliminate the figure of the candidate for president of the commission. let me say that in my view that would be a step backwards for european democracy. i do not say a step backwards for the construction of europe, which is also, i say, a european election without a candidate for president of the commission is a less democratic election, almost a failed election. the figure of the candidate for president of the commission allows citizens to go to the polls knowing what each party's programme is and who each party's candidate is. the usual. because in european elections not only a parliament is elected, but also a european government, and it would be a democratic anomaly if citizens were unable to choose that government or if they did not even know who the candidates were to lead that government. this european union is still a democracy in the making and therefore vulnerable. the enemies of europe need only oppose european democracy. we cannot be friends of europe and at the same time be against european democracy. for national populists, it is easier to attack a european union with a democratic deficit than a european union that is built and sustained on the vote of citizens. national populists come to the european institutions to destroy them, they disguise themselves as democrats to attack democracy and they use the rule of law to destroy the rule of law. only true democracy can expose the false democrats. so our biggest problem is that more and more citizens are buying into the populist discourse because they feel that the community institutions are far from ordinary people; because they feel that the community institutions live in the universe of statistics and big numbers instead of in the real world of supermarket prices and childhood illnesses; because they feel that the european institutions are accountable to the council but not to the people. this growing disaffection can only be ended by increasing the possibilities for political participation: that citizens can choose with more european democracy, not less. when we say 'we need more europe' instead of 'we need more european democracy', what is meant is that we are looking for more european bureaucracy and not more european politics. if we do not build a democratic europe, if europe remains just another historic alliance between european nations, all the efforts made by european democrats after the second world war and after the dictatorships in eastern and southern europe will have been in vain. it is not a whim, nor is it even a democratic requirement, that citizens should know and be able to vote for the candidates for president of the commission; it is normal that the candidate's face should be known, and it would be strange to insist that a president of the european government should be elected without the citizens knowing his face, his nationality, his name or even his gender. that is why i propose in my report that the european parliament be prepared to reject any candidate for president of the commission proposed by the council who has not been previously nominated as the leading candidate in the european elections. this is not a conflict between the council and parliament. this is a conflict between power and democracy. and this cannot be the first parliament in history to choose between power and democracy.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, this has been a historic term in that we have started the spitzenkandidaten process, as the rapporteur has rightly said. and in this way, 500 million european citizens will have a much more democratic say in the election of the president of the european commission. there is indeed a question of democracy and there is a question of power, as the rapporteur has indicated. this change in democratic reinforcement will also increase the european parliament's capacity for control. and that is also a question of democracy. the process makes the political component of the commission, which is not a choir of archangels, more real. they're not technical, they're political. and so the rules of the game must be clearly regulated so that they can be presented, under what conditions, but they must be able to do so easily. i would like to emphasize the good cooperation we have had with the rapporteur, mr esteban gonzález pons. the result has been very quick and very effective, in our opinion. thank you very much, everyone who has collaborated. thank you very much, rapporteur.
madam president, we have been discussing how to best express the consent of the citizens, their interests and their preferences through the election of their representatives and now we are discussing how to strengthen the democratic bond, how to intensify the political relationship between the institutions, respecting the initial trust that this parliament has to give to the president of the commission and the continuing accountability to the body elected by the citizens. the tone of the report, the debate yesterday with president juncker, the rapporteur's own expression, all point to the alarming signs. the european parliament has already been informed of the results of the elections. and i ask myself: if we are betting on a more global european union in its foreign policy, more ambitious in economic and monetary union, with more commitment to defence and security, will we accept a step backwards in the democratic and parliamentary dimension? this parliament must be prepared to reject interference from the council.
madam president, today you can mark a before and after for europe. with the pan-european head of list and the transnational lists we can break down the democratic boundaries a little more. because these two proposals are complementary. and they are a powerful way, first, of transferring to the electoral space what european citizenship already does: europeanizing the debate. mr pons, whatever our position on glyphosate or ceta, these debates and mobilizations are no longer just national but also european. the aim is therefore to give greater political legitimacy to the head of a pan-european list, thanks to a list, to a transnational campaign before all european citizens. and this can also, in turn, help to consolidate the feeling of european belonging for greater pan-european solidarity. colleagues, after brexit it is time to make this qualitative leap. it is time to deepen european democracy and to europeanise democracy.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mr gonzález pons on the work he has done in managing this complex report which we all need and support who really believe in the idea of europe. the experience of the last european elections meant that the candidates for president of the commission were for the first time involved in electoral debates on community issues, and we chose among them. we have to keep it up. because we need the european citizen to know the proposals, the characteristics, the trajectories, the virtues and the defects of the candidates who aspire to preside over the european commission. let him sit, know and see what he chooses. i hope that all the spitzenkandidaten will also be the heads of a transnational list. after the elections, we will elect the head of the european commission here as in any parliament that controls a government, ensuring that it has the support it needs to govern. the return to the darkroom dynamic is to relegate this union project to the image of a clandestine souk of national interests which we neither need, nor deserve, nor can afford. the citizens would not forgive him.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i just want to thank the members for their contributions to this debate. we are very much looking forward to the vote on this and we hope that we can amend the framework agreement in such a way that commissioners could be allowed to stand in european elections without having to take leave. i have also listened carefully to the discussion on the process of lead candidates (spitzenkandidaten) and, as i said earlier, we will take this into careful consideration when completing our contribution on this and other interinstitutional-related issues, and also in preparing for the leaders’ meeting later this month.
the rapporteur. madam president, i simply want to thank all my colleagues for their support of the report, because they have been able to understand that this is a cross-cutting report which does not concern a political group but a whole parliament. in a normal election, voters have candidates, they have programs and they elect governments, and then in those governments, ministers can be candidates in an election. that has not happened in europe until now. from now on, there will be a candidate, there will be a programme, and the commissioners, who are like ministers, will be able to take part in the elections and the parties will have something to say. the more european democracy resembles a normal democracy, the more we will normalize the european union and make it less distant from the citizens. i just want to end, madam president, with a warning. the council has included the spitzenkandidat, the leading candidate, among the subjects to be discussed on 23 february. it is a constitutional practice which we thought was already established, which makes me wonder whether the council is planning to suggest that there should be no lead candidate for president of the commission in the next european elections. if that is the case, then it should be an offence to this parliament, and a serious offence. it should create an institutional conflict. i therefore - and i thank all those who have supported the report from different angles - would like to end with the same plea as that with which manfred weber ended his speech. my president weber said that the people's party will not accept any candidate for president of the commission who has not been voted for by the electorate. i would like us to be able to make that commitment of the pp today a commitment of the whole house. that this parliament will not accept any candidate for president of the commission who has not shown his face to those who have to vote for him, to all europeans.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i would like to welcome the commissioner, it is always a pleasure. i'm going to continue in the language of cervantes. it is a matter of satisfaction, on such a sad day for europe, that we have finally raised the problem of inequalities and their very serious consequences, which are evident from the beginning in this parliament, and therefore for the sake of this debate we give an immediate answer: the consequences on citizens are that the economy grows less, there is more unemployment because of the lack of cohesion of societies, and policies are evident. so what i want to say to the commissaria is that there are three essential ways to combat this. the first way is to go to the structures and change the unequal dynamics in the medium term, and for that economic policies are fundamental, but much more than just taxes, of course, investments are important: investments can be made that favour human capital, that favour infrastructures for the improvement of society, or not. so is business. energy policy, to combat energy poverty. the main macroeconomic policies, which we have now succeeded in getting to grips with the gini index, are important. the second pillar is that which mrs thyssen has put forward: social policies, but above all, not those which tackle inequalities, poverty, etc., 'they are already there, they are its indispensable parts', but those which structure a flexible but more egalitarian labour market. and thirdly and lastly - we often forget this - we must combat inequalities with a bigger and better europe because without a comprehensive, inclusive and solidary vision of europe, including financial support, we will not be able to combat inequalities in europe and in the model we have chosen.
madam president, a new consensus is emerging from the great recession which tells us that the current intolerable levels of inequality and the obscene concentrations of wealth that are emerging are not only challenging us in ethical or social terms but are today undermining our democracies, putting at risk the very liberal international order or european integration and damaging our economies and our potential economic growth. what to do in the face of this unbearable reality? first, action in the field of labour market: precariousness, low wages, or collective bargaining, which is at the root of income inequality. acting on our welfare states so that we can update them and that they play the redistributive role that they had always had to play. act to combat gender inequality, particularly by targeting the pay gap. act to coordinate our tax policies and give room for manoeuvre to member states' budgets. acting to regulate and confront digitisation, international trade or globalisation, which we know generate benefits but which then distribute them very poorly. act to rebuild solidarity between generations and respond to the lack of opportunities for young people, or the worst side of poverty: child poverty. and acting on all levels. the european parliament has also recently adopted a report on this subject. because what had made this continent, europe, unique was its social market economy, that is, reconciling progress, democracy and growth. and the european pillar of social rights is our tool for giving substance to the soul of europe.
madam president, unemployment, low-quality jobs, poverty, inequality, disaffection - that, madam commissioner, is not a biblical plague. it is the consequence of the neoliberal, socially and environmentally predatory policies which have been applied to exploit the crisis for the benefit of a few. now they are shocked because this generates disaffection and the extreme right and fascisms grow. well, it's easy to correct and it's in your hand. change the policy. and not nominally, like they're doing with the social pillar. they call for the reversal of labour reforms; for collective bargaining to be revived; for quality employment to be created; for wages to be increased and the role of workers' representation to be strengthened; for public mechanisms to combat poverty, such as minimum incomes and pensions, to be established and strengthened; for public services, public investment, research, technology and, above all, culture to be revived. i know that your partners in finance and the multinationals don't like these recipes, but they would be surprised, if they were to go out on the streets, how well they would be received by the workers and the citizens.
madam president, economic growth is not synonymous with equality, nor is it a guarantee of equality. the european social model is not well served by those who are puffed up by macroeconomic data and who are blindfolded and unable to see how it affects people's lives. because growth should be converted and translated into living wages, into workers' rights, into fair pensions. and today that's not happening. and, moreover, the representatives of the council and the commission are here and i want to remind you of one thing. a little over a month ago, the priorities for the coming year were set and one issue was not taken into account: today, in europe, inequality has a female face. we are half the population of europe and the priorities set by the european institutions do not speak of reconciling family and working life, they do not speak of the wage gap that we are suffering so much from, they do not speak of gender violence. if you don't remember, in one month, on march 8th, hundreds of thousands of men and women will go out, we will go out in the streets to remind you.
in writing. in the s&d group we have a long and strong track record in the fight against inequalities, the most recent example being the report adopted by the european parliament on combating inequalities to boost job creation and growth, for which javi lópez was rapporteur. inequalities not only challenge us in ethical or social terms, but they are also undermining our democracies and european integration itself today, damaging our potential for growth. we are clear that cuts in wages, pensions and public services contribute to the increase in inequality and the wage gap and to the deterioration of the welfare of citizens. we therefore call on the eu to take legislative and financial measures to ensure quality employment and the welfare state, and to redistribute the benefits generated by international trade and to coordinate fiscal policies. what made this continent unique in the last century was its social market economy, that is, reconciling progress, democracy and sustainable growth. in this sense, we are convinced that the european pillar of social rights must be our tool for giving shape to the soul of europe once again.
in writing. european socialists have a long and solid track record in the fight against inequalities, the most recent example being the report adopted by the european parliament on 'combating inequalities to boost job creation and growth', which was drawn up by javi lópez. inequalities not only challenge us in ethical or social terms, but they are also undermining our democracies and european integration itself today, damaging our potential for growth. we are clear that cuts in wages, pensions and public services contribute to the increase in inequality and the wage gap and to the deterioration of the welfare of citizens. we therefore call on the eu to take legislative and financial measures to ensure quality employment and the welfare state, and to redistribute the benefits generated by international trade and to coordinate fiscal policies. what made this continent unique in the last century was its social market economy, that is, reconciling progress, democracy and sustainable growth. in this sense, we are convinced that the european pillar of social rights must be our tool for giving back body to the soul of europe.
in writing. in the s&d group we have a long and strong track record in the fight against inequalities, the most recent example being the report adopted by the european parliament on combating inequalities to boost job creation and growth, for which javi lópez was rapporteur. inequalities not only challenge us in ethical or social terms, but they are also undermining our democracies and european integration itself today, damaging our potential for growth. we are clear that cuts in wages, pensions and public services contribute to the increase in inequality and the wage gap and to the deterioration of the welfare of citizens. we therefore call on the eu to take legislative and financial measures to ensure quality employment and the welfare state, and to redistribute the benefits generated by international trade and to coordinate fiscal policies. what made this continent unique in the last century was its social market economy, that is, reconciling progress, democracy and sustainable growth. in this sense, we are convinced that the european pillar of social rights must be our tool for giving shape to the soul of europe once again.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, time goes by and we have not had any news from the council on the reform of the european electoral law. if nothing happens in the next 15 months, the european elections will have to take place under the rules of 1976. europe has changed a lot during the past 42 years. minister, the members of the council should not appeal to the principle of subsidiarity, since we are dealing with european elections, not with local, regional or national elections. we, the greens/efa, consider that the parliament’s electoral law resolution has been very shy, without showing a true ambition to update the electoral system according to the new social and political demands for greater participation, accountability and equality. it has been a disappointing text: indeed, not the new electoral law our group desired and expected. we understand the urgency of producing a new law on the important subject of the european elections. however, it is not enough to produce a text. it is essential to produce the best possible text: one that is in line with the needs of the time and brings institutions a bit closer to citizens, to restore confidence and to reinforce the european project. in any case, what is now important is that parliament be kept informed about the debate in the council on this very important issue.
mr president, i wanted to express the meaning of this procedure, madam minister, to remind you that we are talking about a dialogue which parliament has been asking the council to establish for three years now. we only want to talk so that we can negotiate the european electoral law. the argument you made is true. there are national realities, there are political peculiarities that we have to respect. i share it. it is very difficult to harmonize a single electoral system for the whole of the european union. but i would remind you, mr president, that the law which the european parliament has passed is very modest. it only aims to unify minimal elements: the day of the elections, the date, the common age, the ballot, the logo, the thresholds. because we want the 40-year-old law to be updated. we just want that. the council is being asked to respond to this request by negotiating the necessary european law.
in writing. on 11 november 2015, the european parliament (ep) adopted its proposal to amend the 1976 act concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage, which introduces a series of measures aimed at strengthening the european dimension of elections and ensuring greater electoral equality for citizens of the union. unfortunately, since then five council presidencies (luxembourg, the netherlands, slovakia, malta and now estonia) have worked on the parliament's proposal (made in accordance with article 223 (1) tfeu) but none has transmitted to the ep formal or informal results of the council's deliberations, highlighting the member states' unwillingness to harmonise the current rule dating from 1976. we therefore ask the council once again not to block further improvements to the rules for the election of meps and, given that the dossier must be completed by next spring at the latest, to submit a decision to the ep as soon as possible.
in writing. on 11 november 2015, the european parliament (ep) adopted its proposal to amend the 1976 act concerning the election of the members of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage, which introduces a series of measures aimed at strengthening the european dimension of elections and ensuring greater electoral equality for citizens of the union. unfortunately, since then five council presidencies (luxembourg, the netherlands, slovakia, malta and now estonia) have worked on the parliament's proposal (made in accordance with article 223 (1) tfeu) but none has transmitted to the ep formal or informal results of the council's deliberations, highlighting the member states' unwillingness to harmonise the current rule dating from 1976. we therefore ask the council once again not to block further improvements to the rules for the election of meps and, given that the dossier must be completed by next spring at the latest, to submit a decision to the ep as soon as possible.
mr president, we, the members of the socialist and democratic family in this house, truly care about the rule of law, separation of powers and the independence of the judiciary, and of course we understand the legitimate concerns every time there is a risk of breach of the rule of law in relation to a judicial reform in a member state. having said that, it is fair to point out that each and every act in this package of reforms has been in answer to previous rulings of the romanian constitutional court; that there has been a preventive exercise of constitutional review of those acts; and that the romanian government has shown readiness to comply with the rulings of the constitutional court. this reform aims to enhance the accountability of judges in a country which ranks first in terms of violations of article 6 of the european convention on human rights; it enhances the presumption of innocence with regard to its due observance by members of the public prosecution service; and, lastly, it is important to break the misuse or political abuse of the links between the judiciary and intelligence services. that is why many of us do not believe that this reform package poses a serious threat or represents a systemic breach of the rule of law in that member state which is romania. (applause)
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner katainen, president hoyer, in recent years there has been strong criticism of the european union for its inaction in the refugee crisis and, in fact, from this house we have called on the council and the commission many times to act urgently to put solutions on the table: short-term action, but also longer-term action, in order to be able to deal in a more structural way with the migration phenomenon and the situation of the countries around us which are taking in refugees in large numbers. and just as we criticize that inaction, i think it's also fair to acknowledge that the european plan for foreign investment, which was presented by the european commission in june 2016, addresses some of those needs that we have been pointing out. in july 2017, this plenary already gave the green light to one of the components of that plan, which was the european fund for sustainable development, and today we are debating here another of its components, which is the modification of the eib's external lending mandate, whose activities are guaranteed by the union budget. after eight months of tough negotiations with the maltese presidency first and then with the estonian presidency, we have managed to conclude an agreement which i believe substantially improves the current external lending mandate. i would like to start by recalling that all the countries of the union, and the commission too, signed up to the sustainable development goals and that all our actions must therefore be geared to achieving them. with the amendment of this regulation, we are going to improve the european union's action through the eib abroad, and especially in the countries of the southern and eastern neighbourhood, both quantitatively and qualitatively. we have improved quantitatively because we have increased investment capacity to eur 32.3 billion by 2020, with a very special effort in the mediterranean and balkan countries. as regards the qualitative improvement of our investments, we have worked on several aspects. the first, and probably the most important, is that we have added a new priority and cross-cutting objective so that all initiatives funded through this programme contribute to meeting the sustainable development goals and thus eradicate the causes for which people have to leave their homes. in this new objective we have not wanted to forget the countries around us which, in a clear demonstration of solidarity, are hosting millions of refugees and whose public services and infrastructure are completely overwhelmed. in addition, to meet the paris agreement and our commitment to helping developing countries, we have increased the percentage to be devoted to climate change-related investments from 25% to 35%. another area in which we have also worked and improved the decision has been supporting the development of the local private sector, improving access to finance for smes, encouraging the transition from an informal economy to the formal sector and providing special support for investment projects in rural areas, particularly for drinking water treatment, sanitation and renewable energy. and finally, as a qualitative improvement, i would like to highlight the inclusion of the gender perspective in all eib-financed operations. we approve paragraphs 8a and 8b, and with this approval we ensure that the commitments of the equality strategy and its action plan are met and we will also promote respect for the principles of pay transparency and equal pay. and in conclusion, i would like to highlight two very important aspects of this legislation. on the one hand, we have introduced a whole new chapter on the evaluation of the programme; we have established a series of parameters and their corresponding indicators to be able to evaluate the results of the investments from a social, environmental and economic point of view. and on the other hand, we have introduced much more restrictive legislation on the prevention of money laundering, the fight against the financing of terrorism, taxation and non-cooperative territories. and in this connection the eib will have to submit to us every year a report on the implementation of this policy, including a country-by-country report and a list of the intermediaries with which it cooperates. as i said at the beginning of my speech, i believe that this agreement substantially improves the eib's investment mandate and i hope that it will be broadly supported by this house tomorrow and that the eib can put it into operation as soon as possible.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, they want to present these funds as a generous and humanitarian contribution of the european union to development cooperation. and not farther. this is the whole of the unsound strategy towards which the european union is moving. these guarantee funds make development cooperation a business and a financial instrument, the profits of which are pocketed by private enterprises and the losses, if any, of which are covered by public resources. both the foreign action guarantee fund and the foreign loss fund are the financial arms for making cooperation policy a policy of immigration retention and a private business. and someone has to say it, mr. hoyer. the european investment bank is now a criminal organization. the eib promotes financial gain and crimes against human rights and the environment. yesterday you approved 1.5 billion euros for the tap, a gas pipeline with no climate impact report and which ignores human rights violations in azerbaijan, turkey and repression in southern italy. in the canary islands, 125 million for gas infrastructure instead of renewables. you give large sums to destructive projects, like the monoculture eucalyptus in brazil and uruguay or mining in madagascar, which displaces people and pollutes water. what the eib is doing is turning development finance into public aid to increase the profits of private enterprises and private capital, and this cannot be tolerated. we therefore urge the eib to stop investing public funds in projects which are unnecessary, unfair, unsustainable and, at the very least, financially reckless.
the rapporteur. mr president, in my first speech i have already tried to sum up the agreement we reached with the council, so i would like to use this minute to first thank you for the tone of the debate, because i think it has been very constructive. i would like to thank the commission and the european investment bank team for facilitating these difficult negotiations, which, as i said, have lasted eight months, and of course i would like to thank them for the work and support i have received from most of the groups and the alternative rapporteurs, and especially my colleague siegfried mureşan because, in addition to being the alternative rapporteur, he has been the one who has led the negotiations by chairing all those endless hours of negotiation in the trilogues. i think we have basically achieved most of the objectives we set ourselves in this house; there was only one left, since the european parliament wanted to increase even more the guarantee of the european investment bank, but in the end, with the changes in our position with turkey, we were able to reorganise these investments and finally to refocus on both the eastern neighbourhood and the mediterranean, and therefore the objective has also been met. so i just want to thank everyone for their hard work.
the european investment bank's activities in support of the political priorities of the european union have been clearly demonstrated. the report we are now discussing goes far beyond a specific programme and we intend to give an overview of the eib's activities both within and outside the union and, above all, to set out the path which parliament believes it must follow in the coming years so that its actions are in line with the decisions of the union. the eib has proved to be a key player in mobilising public and private investment to support european policies, by strengthening the competitiveness of member states, supporting the real economy, job creation, or also, for example, by financing innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises. in this respect, for example, this parliament supported and worked for the extension of the european investment plan as an instrument to strengthen investment within the european union, making a number of amendments to solve the problems we identified in its first version. because if we want to achieve the objectives we have set ourselves as a union, we must look beyond economic sustainability to other criteria when assessing projects, such as social, environmental or territorial cohesion criteria. in fact, the eib is planning to undertake a review of its energy lending criteria this year. and we believe that this is a great opportunity to adapt them to the new commitments that we as the european union have made through the paris agreement. so we in this parliament encourage them to focus their energy policy on energy efficiency and renewable energy projects. we believe that gender equality and women's empowerment should also be among the criteria to be assessed, and that these should be given greater weight in the evaluation of projects. and in this regard, we also welcome not only the existence of a gender equality strategy within the eib group, but also the recently adopted gender equality action plan. i hope that this action plan will begin to bear fruit quickly and that this will be reflected in the bank's activity. in the light of the criteria which should guide the eib's activities, i think it is essential to emphasize the social aspect of its investments. we cannot forget that the three institutions have just signed the agreement on the social pillar and that the eib must therefore do its utmost to make that agreement go from paper to reality. in recent years, in this parliament - and we saw this in the previous debate too - we have made the fight against tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering one of our top priorities. in this regard, we have called for an ambitious policy on non-cooperative jurisdictions. we acknowledge the progress made by the eib in this area and believe that it is in a privileged position to lead a strong and exemplary policy on taxation issues. another of the issues to which this parliament always attaches particular importance is everything to do with transparency, accountability and access to information. given the eib's size and its growing involvement in the development of european union policies, and in particular the fact that the community budget supports a large proportion of these operations, it is essential to ensure genuine public scrutiny of its activities, the selection of projects and the priorities for financing. transparency in the implementation of public policies is essential, as it promotes the credibility of the bank and the institutions on the one hand and facilitates the monitoring of the investment mobilised, of the financial intermediaries, of the final beneficiaries and, above all, of the effectiveness and sustainability of the financed projects. president hoyer, you are well aware of the challenges we face in the european union and i am convinced that our successes and the results that citizens expect will depend on our cooperation.
the rapporteur. we have been discussing the european investment bank, its activities and its coherence with the union's policies for almost three hours now, and i think it is time to conclude. i simply wanted to give a brief summary of what the objective of this report was, because what we have tried to do is, of course, to analyse the situation of the european investment bank, how it carries out its activities, and, above all, we have given it many tasks for the future, because in the end we asked it to do more for small and mediumsized enterprises, to improve the geographical balance in its investments, to do more in its policy against climate change by modifying it, to do more in equality policy, more in social infrastructure, more in transparency, more in accountability, more in indicators, etc. in the end we have set out a number of tasks for the future and, as these are annual reports, i simply invite the european investment bank to put all these changes into effect, to continue working on what has already been started, as we have mentioned earlier in the debate. and, well, we will see you in a year's time so that we can assess once again how those changes are going within the european investment bank, and i hope that we will continue to improve the work of the bank and also the work of the european union. because, as we have said in this debate and in the previous one, the bank is ultimately a fundamental tool for implementing the policies we have decided in this house. so let us hope that we all continue to move forward on this good path.
i am not saying that the european union should not be involved in the fight against racism and xenophobia, but that it should be involved in the fight against racism and xenophobia. we are seeing it every day in hungary, in poland, in bulgaria or in france itself. in spain, the popular party government passed the gag law in 2015, a law that violates the rights of peaceful assembly and protest, a law that scares all of us citizens who defend a plural system. can you imagine a country where twitter users are tried and imprisoned by the national audiencia? it's not saudi arabia. it is spain, and amnesty international has been denouncing it for some time. political participation and freedom of expression are signs of democratic health. that civil society can intervene in political decisions through its proposals, but also through protest, builds a political system of a higher democratic quality. because in a democracy, the more voices that are heard, the better the decisions are.
mr president, this morning in this parliament we have been discussing how to improve the electoral processes so that the consent of the citizens is better expressed through the election of their representatives, and we have also strengthened the democratic link between those representatives and those who exercise government. a few weeks ago, we in this parliament adopted a report on the shrinking space for civil society in some of the countries with which we cooperate in development policies. but we have the same problem within the union. it is true that democracy is electoral processes, it is the strengthening of the link between the elected and the governed, but it is also the vitality of civil society, which feeds these processes of political participation. democracy is participation, it's deliberation, and we need a vibrant civil society that activates both social mechanisms.
mr president, in the various languages of the union we are here to recall a principle which cannot be underestimated, namely that democracy - of course! - requires voting, but it does not consist merely in voting, much less in voting anything, anytime and in any way. democracy requires the protection of minority rights and the role of the opposition and civil society itself, while respecting the individual rights of individuals and legal entities. and we have a right to be suspicious of any government, whatever it is in the european union, when it legislates to repress or persecute its political opponents with laws that become known even by the name of the person it has identified as its adversary, or even worse, as its enemy. this is the case in hungary with the law that reduces the room for manoeuvre of non-governmental organisations and which is part of a xenophobic and ultra-nationalist strategy of identifying immigration with national security. the european union and the commission therefore have the right and the duty to react to these initiatives and laws and to put a firm stop to this authoritarian drift.
author. mr. president, here are some of the cases of women i want to pay tribute to: berta cáceres, an indigenous leader killed in honduras in march 2016; aminatu haidar, a pro-saharan activist who went on a 32 day hunger strike; ahed tamimi, a symbol of palestinian resistance, again detained by israel; and milagro sala, an argentine activist arbitrarily detained for political reasons. - what? examples of the struggle of hundreds of women around the world who are at the bottom of conflicts and who, in addition to being killed, tortured, harassed and even raped, are often invisible. the commission, the european external action service and the states have an obligation under the treaties, madam commissioner. this is the obligation which must lead the european union to strengthen its role as a promoter of human rights in the world, protecting human rights defenders, especially women, but not at any price. funding human rights defenders does not mean using those funds as another tool to overthrow governments that are not aligned with the commercial interests of this union. we have seen it here too in the many resolutions against countries which were sanctioned while others were ignored and left out of the political agenda. so i ask you what you are doing to protect all human rights activists and, more importantly, commissioner, what are the criteria for funding ngos and activists? how are these funds mobilized? in relation to the eur 1 300 million allocated to the european instrument for democracy and human rights, who are the recipients of this aid? we need a foreign policy that promotes human rights and is a world leader. but here, more than ever, we need transparency, figures, data and to know what is being done and whether it is being done according to fair and not opportunistic criteria.
mr president, commissioner, we are seeing a worrying increase in violence and political repression against human rights defenders, activists and civil society organisations around the world. and the situation is even more worrying when we talk about women human rights defenders, because, in addition, they have to face multiple risks added by the fact of being women: they have to face rape, sexual violence, smear campaigns and slander, acid attacks, threats and harm to their families. lolita chávez, a finalist for the sakharov prize of this parliament, has been facing this discrimination and violence for years. last week we received news of the possible issuance of an arrest warrant against lolita by the guatemalan prosecutor's office. i think today is a day to call on the european institutions to be firm with guatemala about the need to protect and defend lolita. i would also like to remember, for example, fighters like berta cáceres, who was killed in the early hours of march 3, 2016. i think a case like berta's makes clear the limitations of existing strategies for protecting activists and their organisations and the urgency of rethinking our approach as european institutions to better protect against the risks and violence faced by thousands of women working for justice and equality. i would therefore like to point out that the european union's guidelines on this issue recognise the importance of applying a gender perspective to this issue, but, however, we do not have data on how the specific challenges faced by women defenders are taken into account when, for example, programming the different funds available. we would therefore like the commissioner to explain to us today how these specific needs of women human rights defenders are taken into account, both in the field of the european external action service and in the use of these funds.
author. mr president, commissioner, i want to put a face to this initiative as my colleagues have done. and in this case, they are those of lolita chávez, threatened with death in guatemala, persecuted and with a new arrest warrant, prosecuted for defending indigenous communities and their natural environment in guatemala. founder of the council of kiche peoples, she took part in a programme of temporary protection of human rights defenders of the basque government, and became, during the eight months she lived in euskadi, a reference and an inspiration, to the extent of being a finalist of the sakharov prize. a few weeks ago, he received the ignacio ellacuría award for cooperation in the basque country. before leaving, lolita remembered that without the support she received, she would now be underground. i was not born to be killed, i was born to stay alive and i call on all peoples to weave bonds of mutual solidarity. this message first of all certifies that this type of protection programme is useful, that it contributes, that it solves, but, in addition, it challenges us because it encourages us to organize better, to coordinate and to contribute more to the solidarity we owe to those who risk their lives all over the world to defend fundamental rights. and when they are women, when they overcome stereotypes and cultural patterns to rise to the forefront and become leaders of a community, we have a triple obligation because they take more risks, because they have it harder, and because in many countries women are the great hope. that is the point of the questions we are putting today, commissioner. what would we be able to do if we coordinated all the available wills and resources, if we added them together, if we were able to generate a synergy that made today's efforts much more effective? do you think that new initiatives and more comprehensive programmes would be generated? are we aware of the special situation of women and the double difficulty they face in being able to lead these human rights movements? there is a lot of knowledge available, a lot of willingness to contribute, and a good topic for the union to deepen its vocation as an agent of peace and defender of freedoms in the world.
mr president, commissioner, we need the european union to be a defender of women defenders. and for some time now we have been watching with great concern how human rights ngos are also beginning to be singled out as suspects, both here in the fight to prevent more deaths in the mediterranean sea, as in latin america or in other regions and territories, where, in addition, the women defenders who make up the weakest component also need our support in an increasingly visible, stronger and more evident way, since they are the ones who, as leaders of their communities, work every day in favour of their missing, of families, fight against violence against them and their children, in the defence also of their communities, the environment and natural resources. it is therefore increasingly urgent to be able to guarantee them security in their work, which is fundamental to our democracy, to democracy in general and to human rights. also for the peace and stability we worked so hard for. and i would like to mention amal habani, nahid yabrallah in sudan, atena daemi, golrockh irae and mansura behkish in iran, who are also suffering abuse and very dangerous situations in prisons. but also to maru villalpando in the united states, who defends migrants, and to helena maleno, who in southern spain also defends migrants and, moreover, is now before the moroccan courts because the spanish government has not communicated the closure of her case. it is therefore necessary to help them as soon as possible, commissioner.
mr president, berta cáceres, helena maleno and the sakharov prize finalist lolita chávez are just three examples of brave women who have stepped forward in defence of something as fundamental as human rights. defending human rights is a right, but it is also a right which, by exercising it, demonstrates the current unjust global order in which the dignity of individuals and peoples is worth far less than corporate profit. berta, like so many other women, lost her life for reporting this abuse. lolita is suffering from exile and family separation. women defenders face a double threat. they are up against corporate powers, corrupt governments and judicial systems, biased media, and a long list of others. but also, by being women, they fight the violent inequality gap that we all suffer from. the defenders represent what the elites fear most. they are the symbol of life and care in the face of destruction, against which they fight. for those they are attacked, silenced, killed. on the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, the union should be clear about who the heroines of our time are and protect them, not just on paper, but with specific programmes. thank you all so much.
the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and the council for adoption, and the council will be consulted on the matter. and really the time change, both in spring and in autumn, would be a kind of mini jet lag, but it ultimately affects the health, especially of the most unprotected or the most vulnerable, such as children and, also, the elderly. but we, as the committee on transport and tourism, are very concerned - especially from what we hear from the associations of road victims - about the accumulation of fatigue in the weeks following the changeover, especially the changeover to winter, but also to spring, because there is a difference which causes sleepless nights and, of course, that accumulation of fatigue. we agree that we must also study - and this was something we had already agreed on - the benefits, for energy efficiency and, above all, also because we, as tourist countries, felt that our longer hours would be just the better. the fact is that in my country the hours are so wide and so complex to reconcile with the hours spent with the family that in spain we should almost have to rethink them more drastically and not just because of the change in the hours. but i am glad that you, commissioner, are reconsidering once again, because i think we have to evaluate the possibility of changing the timetable. it is harmonized, but it does not have to be changed ever again and it improves the health of everyone.
the time change has been criticised for some time. it is clear - and several studies have shown this - that energy savings today are marginal and that, however, there is an impact on the biorhythms of citizens that can have consequences for health. at the same time, it is also true that we all agree that more hours of sunshine after working hours improve our quality of life, or that, for example, there are countries where tourism improves the more hours of sunshine there are in the summer, for example in the mediterranean area. we therefore think it is reasonable to carry out an in-depth impact study on the effects of the change in time on the various dimensions of health, work and energy consumption, and on the whole of europe, given that we have known for some time that this is unnecessary and harmful.
madam president, the commissioner said that the studies are not conclusive, but it is true that there are studies which point to negative impacts on health, agriculture, road safety and also on the reduction of the quantity and quality of sleep. i, commissioner, would recommend the precautionary principle in favour of health. the commissioner also says that summertime is good for leisure activities. i would say to the commissioner that in order to promote leisure, we must reduce working hours and divide up work. on the other hand, energy saving, one of the very important arguments put forward to justify these changes, also seems to be insignificant. we galicians suffer much more from these impacts because our geographical position is that of portugal or the united kingdom, but we are an hour ahead of germany's time. that is why we are asking for this directive to be amended and the summertime change not to take place.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, after the 2013 coup, there will be presidential elections in egypt in march; an election where, possibly, there will be no opposition, because the candidates have withdrawn due to intimidation and arrests. under the umbrella of the fight against terrorism, all kinds of human rights violations and acts of repression are being committed against journalists, civil society and, in particular, the workers' movement, which, despite this, continues to organise regular demonstrations and strikes. a country where in the last month 23 people have been executed after being tried by military courts without any guarantees. the european union has nevertheless decided to look the other way and resume relations, despite the flagrant lack of respect for human rights. we therefore demand that the european union take a stand on these violations. that it prohibit arms exports to egypt and refrain from legitimising an electoral result obtained without respect for the most basic democratic rights.
author. madam president, haiti is a broken country. it is a country broken by slavery, it is a country broken by poverty, by colonization, by occupation and by an illegitimate debt. it is also a country torn by misery, by natural accidents, by disasters, by plagues. and it's a country torn by its political and economic class, which is the most predatory that i've ever seen in my life in any country in the world. it is therefore true that the country suffers and suffers from poverty and when poverty is suffered, it is the children who suffer most. the phenomenon of the restaveks - hundreds of thousands of enslaved children - is intolerable, unbearable. but that's why we should support haiti and not the other way around. that is why the message to all those who now want to reduce aid to the country of haiti is the opposite: more aid, more confidence in the new haitian government which is making its way through the ranks against all elements, among others, against a totally predatory economic class. to end the restavek, we must support the haitian government.
author. madam president, haiti is an impoverished, devastated and also drowned country by the debt imposed by france and other international institutions. it also faces a serious food insecurity situation. children are the main victims. we propose that the haitian authorities ratify ilo convention 189 and ensure that slavery, child exploitation and sexual violence are brought to an end, paying particular attention to domestic work, because it is certainly the most invisible form of slavery, that development aid is not used to pressure the ilo to ratify the association agreement with the european union, that european aid is given in the form of a grant and that france repays the colonial debt. and finally, respect for haiti's right to food sovereignty by supporting farmers to produce food for their people.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, haiti, the most populous country in the caribbean, is also the poorest and most unequal of all the americas. extreme poverty and the vulnerability of the population are marked by a highly dependent and tremendously indebted economy. in this scenario, as always, women, and children, are the ones who are most affected. it's the socioeconomic conditions that lead to thousands of children being enslaved, and we're in the middle of the 21st century, in 2018, and we're here in this house, talking about child slaves. until we effectively address the issue of not just poverty, but inequality - and that implies redistribution - haiti will never be resilient. it is also urgent to address this unsustainable and illegitimate debt. the european union as the main donor plays a key role. but without an effective development policy accompanied by coherent external action, no matter how many urgent resolutions we take, we will achieve nothing. let us use our strength to push this government to ratify and implement the essential conventions on the fight against slavery and the trafficking of children. let's use our strength to strengthen good governance and stop savages like this from happening anytime soon. as mr neuser has said, these children have no lobbyists here to defend them.
madam president, commissioner stylianides, last december the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly met in haiti, the poorest country in latin america, ravaged not only by poverty but also by disasters and hurricanes, and we were able to see firsthand the tragic, terrible situation: 300 000 children trapped in child slavery, completely deprived of social rights, health rights, but also of food and the most basic education. it is therefore a situation which seriously challenges the european union's development and humanitarian cooperation policy. because it is a moral and political imperative of the first order that the european effort in haiti, diplomatic and cooperative, should be directed towards the need to combat not only child poverty but also the humiliation, the abuse and the slavery to which all these children in haiti are currently subjected.
mr president, while there are already innumerable statements, resolutions and, finally, the interference of this parliament with venezuela, in honduras they are still waiting for this house to take a decision and condemn the more than forty murders by the police forces, the more than two hundred wounded and the more than a thousand arrests, the militarization of the streets and the suppression of fundamental freedoms. all this after a very dubious election - the european union knows this - which has produced a government that is illegitimate. and that's not me saying that, it's the honduran constitution, which expressly forbids reelection. by our silence we will be supporting a regime that has seized all institutions, including the judiciary, the electoral court and the security forces; a regime that cannot be called a democracy. the honduran people are bleeding while the world looks the other way. what are we waiting for in this house to demand that the government of a trading and development partner like honduras stop killing and repressing its people? let us be consistent and demand human rights and democratic values in all parts of the world equally. the honduran people can't wait any longer. human rights have no political color, do they?
member of the commission. – mr president, seven years into the war in syria, the suffering of the syrian people unfortunately continues. each new escalation brings a new humanitarian crisis and a new level of horror. unfortunately it is now evident, as we have been saying for months and years, that the war is far from over, and a political solution is more urgent than ever. the situation in eastern ghouta, where over 400 000 people are in dire need, is of extreme concern to me as commissioner for humanitarian aid. i had hoped that the tragedy experienced in aleppo last year was behind us, but unfortunately what is happening in eastern ghouta as we speak proves otherwise. the ongoing violence and human suffering are unacceptable. we have worked endlessly to stop the massacre and we went public in order to increase the pressure on the regime and its supporters. i issued a joint statement together with the high representative on 19 february, and the high representative also made a declaration on 23 february, on behalf of 20 of our member states. we are equally concerned about the reports that chlorine gas is being used in eastern ghouta. investigation in the field should definitely be supported. the eu sanctions regime has already been used to target perpetrators and can be mobilised again. the resolution adopted by the united nations security council last saturday is an essential step forward, but it is only a first step. as highlighted by the high representative, it is now essential to implement a ceasefire to allow a genuine humanitarian pause for at least 30 consecutive days throughout syria. for that reason, earlier this week the high representative wrote to the three guarantors of the astana process, russia, turkey and iran. they have committed to creating four de—escalation zones and they have a special responsibility to work for an immediate ceasefire. this will enable safe, sustained delivery of humanitarian aid, as well as services and medical evacuations for the critically ill and the wounded, in accordance with applicable international law. we, the european union, the principal humanitarian donor, are maintaining our commitment to delivering strictly on the basis of needs across the whole of syria. in eastern ghouta we have been providing assistance across sectors including health, food and protection. we are in constant contact with our partners operating there on the ground. these include five un agencies, the icrc as always, and five international and local governmental organisations, which have pre-positioned the requisite emergency supplies to be delivered as soon as access is granted. i reiterated that it is a matter of the utmost urgency to allow access for our partners to deliver the long—awaited vital assistance. i am alarmed to witness the human suffering while assistance is waiting in warehouses. this is completely unacceptable. the situation in eastern ghouta illustrates the plight of the three million vulnerable people trapped in besieged and hard-to-reach areas. i totally agree with you that it is time to act. i look forward to your support in continuing to call on the parties to the conflict to respect the un resolution and allow humanitarian aid to be delivered. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the south of damascus, in eastern ghouta, what the un secretary-general has described as 'hell on earth' is taking place. a regular army - the syrian - with its allies - russia - mercilessly bombs 400,000 desperate people. you, mr president, reminded us of the ghastly images of the bodies of children who have been mutilated and which strike our conscience hard. as one security council diplomat put it, every minute that the international community has been waiting for russia, countless people have been killed. russia has exercised its veto power in the security council eleven times since the start of the syrian conflict. that is why, mr president, we must applaud the courage of germany and france, of sweden and kuwait, in urging the adoption of this security council resolution, which, unfortunately, as you reminded us, is not stopping the horror. now, the first priority, mr. president, is to alleviate the suffering of the people. as the high representative has said, the massacre must be stopped - not for five hours, but for good. we must restore international humanitarian law in syria, respond, as the commissioner said, with humanitarian aid and evacuate the wounded and sick from ghouta. the european union must continue to alleviate the effects of this terrible conflict, as it has done in lebanon, as it has done in egypt, as it has done in iraq or as it has done in jordan, and at the same time encourage international conferences, as has been the case in london and also in brussels. but, mr president, the european union must get involved and try to mobilize all its efforts to find a stable and lasting peace in syria and put an end to this nightmare.
mr president, this informal february council dealt with the multiannual financial framework, turkey and even syria and, of course, brexit. but this european parliament is right to stress the opportunity that the council is risking to lose by allowing an unavoidable meeting with a better europe than this to pass, because the proposal adopted by the european parliament which seeks to link the presidency of the commission to the head of the list of each of the great political families is a civic, citizen and european cultural commitment. we are also many who voted in favour of the transnational lists, because they represent the beginning of a pan-european response to the need for pan-european citizenship and representation in this european parliament. but the council must not lose sight of the opportunity to revive europe and to bring it out of the state of decline, if not paralysis, in which it has unfortunately found itself in recent years. the commission has already taken a number of decisions.
in writing. the february informal european council dealt with the multiannual financial framework, turkey and syria and, of course, brexit. there is no doubt that we must face the new challenges. but we also need to ensure social and territorial cohesion in the union, because without a strong cohesion policy there is no unity among european citizens. the european parliament must also stress the opportunity that the european council is risking to miss by allowing an unavoidable meeting with a better european union than the present one to pass. the proposal adopted by this parliament to link the presidency of the commission to the head of the list of each of the major political families is a civic, citizen and european cultural commitment. we are also many who voted in favour of the transnational lists, because they represent the beginning of a pan-european response to the need for pan-european citizenship and representation in this european parliament. the european council must not miss the opportunity to revive the european union and to bring it out of the state of decline, if not paralysis, in which it has unfortunately found itself in recent years.
in writing. the february informal european council dealt with the multiannual financial framework, turkey and syria and, of course, brexit. there is no doubt that we must face the new challenges. but we also need to ensure social and territorial cohesion in the union, because without a strong cohesion policy there is no unity among european citizens. the european parliament must also stress the opportunity that the european council is risking to miss by allowing an unavoidable meeting with a better european union than the present one to pass. the proposal adopted by this parliament to link the presidency of the commission to the head of the list of each of the major political families is a civic, citizen and european cultural commitment. we are also many who voted in favour of the transnational lists, because they represent the beginning of a pan-european response to the need for pan-european citizenship and representation in this european parliament. the european council must not miss the opportunity to revive the european union and to bring it out of the state of decline, if not paralysis, in which it has unfortunately found itself in recent years.
in writing. the february informal european council dealt with the multiannual financial framework, turkey and syria and, of course, brexit. there is no doubt that we must face the new challenges. but we also need to ensure social and territorial cohesion in the union, because without a strong cohesion policy there is no unity among european citizens. the european parliament must also stress the opportunity that the european council is risking to miss by allowing an unavoidable meeting with a better european union than the present one to pass. the proposal adopted by this parliament to link the presidency of the commission to the head of the list of each of the major political families is a civic, citizen and european cultural commitment. we are also many who voted in favour of the transnational lists, because they represent the beginning of a pan-european response to the need for pan-european citizenship and representation in this european parliament. the european council must not miss the opportunity to revive the european union and to bring it out of the state of decline, if not paralysis, in which it has unfortunately found itself in recent years.
in writing. the february informal european council dealt with the multiannual financial framework, turkey and syria and, of course, brexit. there is no doubt that we must face the new challenges. but we also need to ensure social and territorial cohesion in the union, because without a strong cohesion policy there is no unity among european citizens. the european parliament must also stress the opportunity that the european council is risking to miss by allowing an unavoidable meeting with a better european union than the present one to pass. the proposal adopted by this parliament to link the presidency of the commission to the head of the list of each of the major political families is a civic, citizen and european cultural commitment. we are also many who voted in favour of the transnational lists, because they represent the beginning of a pan-european response to the need for pan-european citizenship and representation in this european parliament. the european council must not miss the opportunity to revive the european union and to bring it out of the state of decline, if not paralysis, in which it has unfortunately found itself in recent years.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. there are many places in the world where both factors, together or separately, have hit the daily lives of millions of people, and europe is a prominent place. xenophobia has become official policy in some countries, which make the defence of a supposed identity a resource for the repression and exclusion of refugees and immigrants. austerity and neoliberal policies are also a human rights issue: the consequences of the 'austericidal' policies implemented by most countries leave a devastating balance. we therefore advise and suggest that the eu should take two commitments to the united nations human rights forums: the first on the actions taken to combat xenophobia and racism and, secondly, the commitments made to return to millions of europeans the human rights that have been taken away by the socially suicidal logic of austerity policies.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank the alternative rapporteurs for their cooperation on this dossier. i would also like to thank the secretariats of the envi committee and the epp group, as well as my assistant, for their cooperation, and also the commission services, who have always been ready to clarify any doubts about this report. the aim is to amend regulation (ec) no 110/2008 on spirit drinks which is currently in force. this regulation is a very good regulation and it is not about changing what works well, but it needed to be amended to bring it into line with the treaty on the functioning of the european union. existing legislation must be consistent with the new legal instruments introduced by the lisbon treaty and that is what this review is mainly about. at the same time, the alternative rapporteurs and i consider it essential that the prerogatives of parliament under the legislation in force be maintained. we have therefore tabled a number of amendments introducing delegated acts to protect the existing rights of parliament. in this connection, we have amended the proposal so that these delegated acts do not affect the essential elements of the regulation and, in addition, we propose to limit these powers in time so that they have a duration of five years with the possibility of being extended for an equivalent period. the commission proposes to harmonize the procedures for managing geographical indications in the spirit drinks sector with those already in force for foodstuffs in general and, to this end, introduces a major amendment to chapter iii governing geographical indications. this change was necessary, and parliament understands and shares this, since the various regimes applicable must be harmonized, but at the same time the specific issues of the spirit drinks sector must be taken into account. we have therefore tabled a number of amendments to this effect. another of the essential amendments to the proposal is the deletion of annex iii, which is in regulation (ec) no 110/2008, on geographical indications. the commission proposal introduces an electronic register similar to that provided for in the case of protected designations of origin and geographical indications for wines and foodstuffs. this electronic register is an innovative and easily accessible instrument. however, given the importance of the register, we propose that parliament be involved in future amendments to it by means of delegated acts. neither regulation (ec) no 110/2008 nor this proposal establishes a maximum sugar content for rounding flavourings. there are member states which have national legislation for certain categories and set a ceiling, and others which have none at all. parliament has considered it necessary to set a limit for each category, but always respecting the higher limit already existing in national legislation for each category. it is also important to point out, within the spirit drinks sector, the existence of traditional and centuries-old methods for their production and aging, and it is necessary and right to recognise and perpetuate them in legislation. in short, this is a fundamentally technical proposal and we must stick to it. i am aware, however, that the issues of health and consumer protection in relation to excessive alcohol consumption concern us all, but this is not the appropriate regulatory body in which we should deal with this problem. i am against including in this regulation those amendments which refer to the indication of the nutritional calorie content of spirit drinks on the labelling, but this does not mean that i think that alcoholic drinks should be exempted. what's going on is this is not the place to do it. the place is regulation (eu) no 1169/2011 on nutrition labelling.
mr president, i would like to join in congratulating the rapporteur, pilar ayuso, and the whole team of alternative rapporteurs, because i think there is a magnificent proposal left for the trilogue negotiating process. i think a great deal of updating has been done and all the local needs and varieties have been taken into account. i would particularly like to thank the work that has been done in incorporating the model applied to a well-known spirit drink, such as sherry brandy, a model in which, as regards the rounding of the final flavour of the product, natural sweet wine is usually used. this rounding is called 'solera y crianza' and is something very traditional in national legislation. this is reflected in the proposal 'i am glad of it', as are other varieties and traditional methods, and i welcome it. i would also like to refer to the amendments on nutritional profiles. i am not against it; i am against amendments: this is not the place. we must wait for the labelling regulation and make the appropriate contributions there.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all those who have contributed to this evening’s debate. there is a clear acknowledgment of the importance of the spirit drinks sector across the european union, and i agree with ms ribeiro’s and mr kelly’s assessment that the work undertaken by the rapporteur and parliament as a whole is a good basis for taking the negotiations forward and into the trialogues. mr marias knows very well that the commission has achieved geographical indications protection for many greek products where it was difficult to achieve, particularly in relation to free trade agreements such as ceta and sadc and with vietnam and japan. we will do so again in negotiations that are ongoing. it seems to me that there are a relatively small number of political issues which need to be resolved, though i would recall the reservations that i mentioned in my opening remarks, particularly around empowerments. other issues were mentioned here this evening as well, one of which ms boylan and ms aguilera garcía mentioned, which was around nutrition labelling. i hope that, following the plenary vote, the council will move quickly to adopt its mandate in order to allow us to start trialogues. i am confident that together we can reach an agreement that meets most people’s concerns and continues to support the strong european spirits and drinks sector, which, as mr tarabella mentioned, is worth eur 10 billion and one million jobs in the european union.
the rapporteur. mr president, thank you very much to all those who have spoken. i understand that this is a good report, with everyone's help, with everyone's amendments, and that it is true that we have an important underlying problem - we basically agree on everything - which is the problem of alcohol in beer. there are arguments for and arguments against, and they're all valid. but i am aware that alcohol from annex ii plant products has always been used for this type of drink, and beer is not an annex ii product, although it is true that the alcohol in beer is derived from plant products. in any case, we shall see what happens in the vote tomorrow. finally, i would like to ask for your support in obtaining a mandate so that we can begin negotiations with the council. i hope that with the help of the alternative rapporteurs, the council and the commission we can achieve a good regulation, on the same level as we have today, which protects a sector as important - as has been said here - as the spirit drinks sector.
in writing. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her excellent work. i think that this is a good report in general terms, covering basic issues such as the need to make clear the important link between this sector and agriculture and the agri-food legislative framework. this is a sector which is very much linked to the traditional know-how of many european regions, and this is something which the report makes clear. the european legislation must therefore respect the different national laws, which are drawn up with a better understanding of each national and regional situation. as a spanish member of parliament, one of my main concerns was the recognition by european legislation of the ageing methods used in the production of brandy. i am glad to hear that this has indeed been taken up after the vote in the committee on the environment and that the references to the 'breeding and sowing' system on the labelling will be accepted.
mr president, i welcome these annual reports which seek to defend the human rights of all victims and therefore find it particularly shocking that in a report referring to the year 2016, when europe was savagely punished by terrorism, there is no reference to the victims of terrorism. twenty-two pages that speak rightly - and that i applaud and support - of women victims of gender violence, of trafficking, of lgbt groups victims of hate, of migrants, and so on. but not a single mention of the victims of terrorism. or have we forgotten the 2016 brussels bombing, where 32 people lost their lives and many were injured? or the nice bombing, where 84 people, many of them children, were killed and hundreds were injured? and i could go on and on about european cities where terrorists have violated the first of the fundamental rights: the right to life. the rapporteur's explanatory statement, which cites the numerous reports of parliament which have served as a reference, does not mention the report on the fight against terrorism, the main objective of which is to guarantee freedom, security and justice for all europeans. i shall vote in favour of this report because i believe that all victims deserve equal respect, but i would like to say that the victims of terrorism need more support from the european union in protecting their fundamental rights and in defending memory, dignity and justice.
mr president, this european parliament is right to be concerned with the fundamental rights protected by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which cover not only european citizens but anyone on our territory. and the landscape described is dark, marked by populism, extreme nationalism, hatred of the different, stigmatization of the other and hate speech that leads to xenophobia and racism. and so i think it's imperative that we talk about three urgent challenges. the first is the inclusion of 'migrants and refugees' and solidarity with those who build walls against those who knock on europe's doors. the second is equality: yes, also, women's rights against violence and against the reduction, the restriction of their sexual and reproductive health rights. and the third is the fight against all forms of discrimination, which affects not only the lgbti community but also, in europe, members of the roma population, jews who are increasingly suffering from anti-semitism, those who suffer from any kind of hate speech and phobia ... (the president withdraws the floor from the speaker).
mr president, today freedoms and rights are at stake in spain. freedom of speech, freedom of communication, freedom of assembly, the right to choose your own government and the independence of the judiciary have all been violated in catalonia. today, four catalan leaders are being held in custody without trial and without bail. although they have always been peaceful, they are accused of violent sedition and rebellion. they could be jailed for 30 years. the catalan president and some ministers have decided to go into exile in belgium and switzerland in order to avoid an unfair trial. madam commissioner, for how long will the commission keep supporting these policies?
(start of the intervention outside the microphone) ... of the utmost solvency which show that the list for which we have worked so hard in this european parliament was drawn up with total opacity and that some countries - the united kingdom, luxembourg - intervened decisively in it in an attempt to remove the usual suspects from that list who, in the end, are not on it. there is not even panama, which was the origin of the great scandal where european fortunes eager to evade tax, also spanish, have obtained the complicity of a fiscal and banking secrecy, nor tax havens that are in perfect health. it is therefore worrying that these countries have finally managed to water down the hard work we have done in the committee of inquiry on tax havens and, even more so, that a group of countries are put on the so-called 'grey list' and removed from the 'black list' because they have allegedly made commitments to improve, without any transparency on the accountability of those commitments. we will therefore have to continue to denounce this situation and to fight tax havens inside and outside the eu.
madam president, there are again proposals to move the recent list of non-cooperative countries in tax matters, again without convincing information on the criteria by which countries enter, leave or have never been. the inclusion or non-inclusion appears to be a mechanism to pressure third countries to implement trade liberalization measures, rather than to correct opaque or outright fraudulent tax behaviour. our group has already expressed its objection to the inclusion in this list of countries such as tunisia, where the population has been taking to the streets for years against the suffocation of neoliberal policies. we also do not agree with the removal of panama or barbados from the blacklist. nothing has changed, except that they believe that the panama paper storm is over and that they can wash the face of the "paradise countries" or pay for banking services so lucrative for a few and so expensive for the majority of the citizens.
madam president, i think we were all happy in december when the list came out, and the proposal for the list was a great step forward, even though we obviously did not have a sanctions regime as we would have liked and even though certain jurisdictions within the european union were not designated; but it was a step forward. but now, with the decision to withdraw these eight jurisdictions and the way in which they have done it, we have shot ourselves in the foot, because the prestige of this list has been badly damaged. the only way to remedy this is to explain in full transparency how these decisions were taken, because otherwise the obvious suspicion of this house, but also of public opinion, is that the decisions were taken arbitrarily on the basis of the interests of certain member states acting within it and not on the basis of objective criteria. we all know, for example, that panama is still not complying, and no one can explain to us why it has withdrawn. or the four tax regimes that andorra is required to change - when and, exactly, with what timetable? so make those letters public and please make this an exercise focused exclusively on a concrete analysis of the demands made on each member state and not a purely arbitrary exercise in complete obscurantism.
in writing. the european list of tax havens is a major achievement in the fight against non-cooperative jurisdictions. however, the council should not misuse this tool by hastily and without sufficient justification removing eight jurisdictions from the blacklist, while at the same time being transparent about the commitments made and the deadlines by those on the grey list. the credibility of the list may be affected if diplomatic criteria are applied over and above those of a technical nature. we spanish socialists believe that there should be zero tolerance for tax evasion and avoidance, because it is an unacceptable attack on solidarity and social justice, and it is illegal. the fight against this phenomenon is an absolute priority for us.
in writing. the european list of tax havens is a major achievement in the fight against non-cooperative jurisdictions. however, the council should not misuse this tool by hastily and without sufficient justification removing eight jurisdictions from the blacklist, while at the same time being transparent about the commitments made and the deadlines by those on the grey list. the credibility of the list may be affected if diplomatic criteria are applied over and above those of a technical nature. we spanish socialists believe that there should be zero tolerance for tax evasion and avoidance, because it is an unacceptable attack on solidarity and social justice, and it is illegal. the fight against this phenomenon is an absolute priority for us.
in writing. the european list of tax havens is a major achievement in the fight against non-cooperative jurisdictions. however, the council should not misuse this tool by hastily and without sufficient justification removing eight jurisdictions from the blacklist, while at the same time being transparent about the commitments made and the deadlines by those on the grey list. the credibility of the list may be affected if diplomatic criteria are applied over and above those of a technical nature. we spanish socialists believe that there should be zero tolerance for tax evasion and avoidance, because it is an unacceptable attack on solidarity and social justice, and it is illegal. the fight against this phenomenon is an absolute priority for us.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union, but that we should be concerned about the future of the european union. this report, which i support, has many measures to this end, and moreover, with a broad consensus. let me relate some of them. prohibiting dangerous active substances in pesticides: neocotinoids are also systemic insecticides. i support the protection of bees against invasive species such as the velvet wasp. increase legal protection and financial support for local endemic honey bee ecotypes and populations throughout the european union, including protection of honey bee conservation areas. support pilot projects on bees and other pollinators as indicators of environmental and habitat health. to establish labelling with the exact indication of the country or countries of origin in the fight against fraudulent honey.
in writing. the protection of the beekeeping sector should not be linked exclusively to honey production, as it involves the important aspect of pollination of crops and the conservation of biodiversity. about 80 percent of all cultivated plants need insects to be pollinated. yet, without warning, we are witnessing a dramatic reduction in insect populations on a global scale. we can see this effect in the beekeeping industry. although land use change is a major factor in the decline of insect populations, the use of pesticides such as neonicotinoids, which have been used worldwide since the 1980s, are the main cause of the global decline in bee populations. their effects persist in the environment long after use. although the use of these insecticides was restricted in the eu in 2013, their ban is necessary as the permitted applications are still an aggression on the natural environment that we cannot afford.
i want to draw attention to one serious problem that concerns the protection of the environment in the eu. i don't know if it's common knowledge that 25 million wild birds are shot in the mediterranean every year, often by completely illegal means. unfortunately, eu countries are also involved in this activity, most notably italy, cyprus and greece. it should be noted that these countries are in breach of international obligations, the bonn and berne conventions, but also of european law, in particular the birds directive. i therefore call on the european commission to address this problem, to really act in accordance with european law and, above all, to provide protection for animals in the eu in accordance with the directives we have adopted here in the ep.
madam president, the construction of europe is integrating diversity by building new forms of state and nationhood. it has created shared sovereignty and practices focused on better responding to the needs and will of citizens. on the same basis, my party has put forward a proposal in the basque country which, within the law, calls for permanent dialogue, respect and recognition in order to update the structure of a member state which calls itself a plurinational state. we are committed to a voluntary union of nations that exist and want to make constitutional principles a reality. that's how we bring stability and solutions. i therefore call on brussels and strasbourg to protect this commitment to coexistence against the same old-fashioned state nationalism which they criticise as the worst enemy of european integration, and to force those who are still stuck in 19th century concepts to respect laws and agreements, to dialogue and to build. remind them that it is incompatible with our union to attack giants when there are windmills in front of us, because that is how nationalism is fuelled across the continent.
madam president, carlos santiago, josep pàmies, nacho carretero, xavier uriarte and santiago sierra all have in common that they have been the victims of censorship in the spanish state in the last two weeks. a carnival sermon, a lecture, a rap, a book, a photo exhibition are all censored subjects in different ways but all correspond to the authoritarianism of the popular party. this afternoon, commissioner jourová said that freedom of expression was inviolable; it must be respected regardless of our opinions. i ask you, commissioner, how many more complaints must we make before this parliament and the european commission act to ensure that human rights, such as freedom of expression, are respected in the spanish state.
madam president, on 8 march next women from all over the world are being called on to go on a world strike to denounce a system, the patriarchal system, which invades all aspects of women's lives - not just the 17% pay gap in this union or the marginalization of women's political spaces - and to make these invisible jobs visible. it is in the judicial system and in the many judgments clearly against women in family cases; it is in the pension gap of about 40% in the union; it is in the violence suffered by one in three women throughout her life, and it is in the burden of care, which continues to fall largely on us women. it's in advertising, it's in the sexist treatment of news, it's in the media and digital media; it's in sexual harassment, it's in differential education, and it's in the gender division of labor. patriarchy, for us, is a monster that we must fight, and the best tool is to make visible that the world, if we stop, stops, and that without transversal gender policies, there is no change and there will be no change.
madam president, commissioner, this picture i am showing you illustrates one of the biggest breaches of the water framework directive that is taking place today in the european union. on the left is the tagus river, the main river of the iberian peninsula, with very little water as a result of the transfers that occur in the levant, and on the right is one of its tributaries, the jarama river, with much more water and totally contaminated by the bad cleaning that occurs mainly in the community of madrid. this photo is the consequence of the bad policies being made in water matters by the government of spain; that there is so little water prevents a good dilution, which causes a serious pollution of the tagus river. i would ask you, commissioner, to transfer this to the college of commissioners, now that they have to assess the river basin plans - in this case the tagus river - which are intended to correct this serious damage to the environment in one of the main rivers in europe.
madam president, women suffer the most from temporary work and work fewer hours in paid employment. in both the european union and spain, 30% can only access parttime contracts; the wage gap is 16% in the european union and 24% in my country, spain. this discrimination in the labour market is reflected and aggravated by the age of retirement, when women's pensions are 40% lower than men's. the policies of austerity, moreover, bear the stamp and signature of patriarchy and a vision of society asymmetrical and fragmented in terms of gender, which condemns us to permanent inequality, subordination and enclosure in the private space. but we have the firm conviction to end this system, with the patriarchy inherent in capitalism and, therefore, we call for participation in the feminist strike of march 8. we're going to make march 8th a historic day, because if we stop, the world stops, because we want to be alive, we want to be free and united.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the ‘too big to fail’ problem of the european banks remains unchanged. our banking system has not changed as much as the crisis showed it was needed. on the contrary, we are in a period of regulatory rollback at international and eu level, lowering standards in financial regulation. in this context, the greens strongly support decisive steps towards risk reduction that should go hand-in-hand with risk-sharing, and we see with concern that this is actually not happening. 2017 was the year when we saw obstacles to resolvability of the venetian banks and the first resolution under the eu framework, the popular case which shows that further transparency is clearly needed. we would like to thank mr loones for the good work, because the annual report on the banking union addresses some of our concerns: concerns with resolvability and with mis-selling; good wording on edis, which we believe are very important; concerns that our group has traditionally had with shadow banking, for instance. we believe that this is a good report and we would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their cooperation and we will vote in favour.
i believe that this directive is an important directive in the fight against tax evasion. i welcome the commission's initiative and i congratulate my colleague, mr maurel, precisely for the work done by this parliament, which i think has made interesting contributions to the initiative, especially as regards the need for a public register in the commission on these matters and the need also to establish sanctions for failure to comply with the obligations laid down in this directive. i would point out, however, that what parliament is doing is an opinion and that in the fight against tax evasion we are suffering from what i would call a lagging and almost boycotting attitude on the part of many countries of the union in the council. the council is generally vetoing, through the need for unanimity, many initiatives in this just fight for tax justice and is setting demands and is protecting opaque tax havens or european tax havens. and this cannot be: it is unsound, unsustainable and incompatible with a single market in the european union.
the rapporteur. madam president, the defeat of the islamic state in syria and iraq does not mean its end: in their hands is a huge amount of money that has been stored throughout their caliphate with the sale of oil, the capture or investments of legitimate businesses, revolutionary taxes, robberies, bank robberies, kidnappings, trafficking in antiquities, sale of weapons. it is estimated that some 400 million dollars are being laundered in syria and iraq, considering that the approximate volume of their economic movement, at the time of the caliphate, was about 80 million dollars a month. the aim of this recommendation is to collapse, to prevent these funds from being used, from being laundered, from being sold, because it is necessary for the intelligence services to work in a coordinated way to tackle the financing of terrorism. the commission, the member states and the european external action service are therefore being asked to take a comprehensive, holistic view, which will deepen the necessary cooperation between european intelligence services. the creation of a horizontal platform for european intelligence services where they can share data and research is a strategic necessity. it is not a question of creating a new institution but, realistically, of establishing a cooperation platform where a common database exists and where this data can be shared. and this platform that we are proposing has to be built on the basis of what already exists at europol, with the aim of proactive exchange of information on the financing of terrorist groups. member states are also encouraged to make greater efforts to equip themselves with qualified staff, computer engineers who can properly detect and investigate economically suspicious movements. we also call for the early implementation of the fifth anti-money laundering directive to improve the competence of national intelligence units and to enable them to access banking data, including within the scope of the directive, for their research, virtual currencies and prepaid cards, cards which, until now, were charged anonymously, and that must end. new technologies have a fundamental role and responsibility. virtual currencies, crowdfunding platforms are used by terrorists. new technologies are, by their very nature, transnational, as must be the response to terrorism, which is also transnational. we have international agreements on the exchange and traceability of financial information linked to terrorism, but, curiously enough, we do not do the same within the european union. this is the case with the single area for payments in euro, and we therefore propose that the commission should put forward measures which can complement the international system with a joint european response, all while strictly applying the data protection standards and respecting the fundamental rights which define us as rights-respecting in the european union. we also propose that in the european union, the traditional methods of transferring money, from hawala to chinese fei ch'ien and other traditional methods, should be regulated by means of a register of transactions, which is compulsory, as is the case with any of our fellow citizens, who, when they transfer money, do so in a controlled manner: equality before the law and non-discrimination. hawala is being used by the islamic state, by terrorist organizations to export their money from syria and from iraq, and that money is going to europe. similarly, in europe we must pay attention to religious, cultural and charitable associations - ostensible charitable associations - where there is reason to suspect that they have links with terrorism, to avoid a negligent or reckless use of the funds they receive, all this with very special attention to the fight against this new form of racism and xenophobia which is islamophobia. terrorism defined as jihadism is a blasphemy against the koran and the main victims of this terrorist activity are precisely the muslims. finally, in our external dimension, in the missions we send and finance from our common security and defence policy, within the assistance we provide for resilience building in states that are victims of terrorist crime, we must add the dimension of the fight against the financing of terrorism and, in particular, against the integration into the domestic economy of funds seized by terrorists, that is, money laundering through legal economic activities. in conclusion, i would like to thank the colleagues with whom i negotiated the text, and also commissioner king, with whom i had the opportunity to exchange views on the proposal for a recommendation. i have tried to make the recommendation realistic and possible and effective. and i am grateful that my efforts to strike the necessary and difficult balance between freedom and security have won the consensus of all political groups. thanks to all of them.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mr nart on this report, which is directly at the heart of the concerns of our citizens and which, if it has any merit, is to present a catalogue of concrete proposals: for example, the stable platform for cooperation of financial intelligence services within europol, the catalogue of companies, banks or financial institutions that have shortcomings in terms of money laundering or cooperation with third countries through political dialogue, financial assistance and strengthening their counter-terrorist capacity. i think we should welcome this collaboration between the fatf and the gulf cooperation council. i think that this report also clearly sets out a number of duties for the commission to make the appropriate proposals, for the council to apply sanctions effectively, for the member states and the external action service to be able to give an appropriate response to this scourge that threatens our societies, as the commissioner was saying.
the rapporteur. madam president, a matter as extraordinarily sensitive as it is important: more than 280 amendments, complete consensus, the groups satisfied, commissioner king satisfied and myself satisfied.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to begin this speech by thanking in particular mrs vallina for her talent, her ideas and her enthusiasm for working together on a report which also thanks and welcomes the contributions of all those who have worked with us. i think for the first time in human history there's a powerful, widespread movement for equality that we want to help advance with work like the one we're presenting today. the text we are debating today is going to be the union's contribution this year to the main intergovernmental forum devoted to promoting women's equality and empowerment: the united nations commission on the status of women. the community institutions must ensure the full participation of parliament and its committee on women's rights and gender equality in its 62nd assembly, which this year is devoted to improving the situation of women living in rural areas and paying particular attention to their access to new technologies and the media. the union wants to play a leading role in promoting and strengthening a process which is fair, democratic, socially and economically viable. it is therefore good for humanity as a whole and particularly relevant to the achievement of the millennium development goals, of which the fight against hunger, poverty and exclusion is a major one. and in that process, women, their empowerment and their position on an equal footing with men are decisive. and they are particularly so in rural areas, where women from all over the world are called upon to play a relevant role if their abilities and contributions are made visible and fully projected onto productive activities. in the developed world today, but especially in developing countries, women are particularly discriminated against in rural areas. un reports estimate that changing this situation would increase primary sector productivity by more than 30%, a progress that is essential to meet the population growth forecasts for the coming decades. this report therefore sets out basic conditions for ending discrimination and specific measures focusing on rural areas and on access to new technologies and the media, following the guidelines proposed by the united nations. the general conditions include stepping up action to combat violence against women, especially practices such as forced marriages and genital mutilation, and making progress in training, education and the provision of universal and free social services to promote equal opportunities for men and women. this is a goal which is now being weighed down by an obvious imbalance in the distribution of tasks linked to household logistics and the care of children and the elderly. to promote the professional performance of women in rural areas, we are committed to a statute for professional women in rural areas, such as the one already in force in the basque country. its basic pillars are access to ownership and ownership or joint ownership of holdings and to social security systems. the establishment of specific funding channels to promote new activities and products; specific training that incorporates digital and modern skills and gives another dimension to the role of women in the creation of new products and their marketing; the progressive incorporation of women into decision-making processes, both in the public and private sectors, including from institutions to producer organizations, cooperatives and production and processing companies; and a systematic and homogeneous collection of statistical data, which allows the evaluation of the results of policies in favour of full equality with this catalogue of measures. we are convinced that the consolidation of the status of professional women in rural areas, which promotes, recognizes and protects this equality, is an achievement not only of women but of humanity. and this is going to be especially visible if this real revolution for justice and equality accelerates in the developing world. madam president, with your generosity, i would like to add just one point: i regret that, among the highlights of this parliament, once again such an important report has not been included, when it comes to the equality of women in the world.
i would like to thank mrs jourová for her participation in this debate, and my colleague, mr izaskun bilbao, for her excellent work and cooperation and all the work we have done together on this report. i would also like to thank the various group alternate rapporteurs. the committee on women's rights and gender equality is submitting this recommendation to the council for the next session of the un commission on legal and social affairs for women, which will be held in new york shortly and in which a delegation from this parliament will be participating, including ourselves. the priority theme of this session is the empowerment of women and girls in rural areas, and this is where we as co-rapporteurs decided to focus our report. it is estimated that more than 75 per cent of the world's extreme poverty population lives in rural areas. ninety percent of the countries in the world have at least one law that limits women's economic equality. millions of girls in the rural world are deprived of the right to go to school every day because, without access to clean water or electricity, they are the ones primarily responsible for fetching water or fuel for their families. to do this, they often have to travel several kilometres, and are also exposed to sexual violence along the way. to break the cycle of poverty, it is essential to promote the empowerment of rural women and girls through access to education, health and productive resources. in our report, we therefore recommend that the council, at the next session of the un commission, promote policies aimed at eradicating poverty and ensuring an adequate standard of living for particularly vulnerable groups such as women and girls, and especially through the social protection system; programmes ensuring that women and their families have access to universal social protection systems that affect their future retirement status and thus contribute to reducing the multi-dimensional pension gap; the right and access to universal and quality health care, meeting the needs of rural women and girls, and in particular with regard to sexual and reproductive health and rights; universal access to adequate child and elderly care services in rural areas; and that rural women and girls have easy access to credit and support in their productive economic initiatives. and we also recommend that it guarantees rural women's property rights, in particular their right to farm ownership and inheritance of land, which is a very important tool for their economic empowerment and enables them to participate fully in and benefit from rural development; that it condemns all forms of violence against women and ensures that no victim in rural and isolated areas is deprived of equal access to assistance and protection; that it develops employment policies, services and programmes to address the precarious situations of those rural women who often work in the informal sector and who may face multiple forms of intersectional discrimination on the basis of sex, age, class, religion, ethnicity, disability or gender identity; that it provides gender-sensitive assistance and support; that it guarantees the fundamental human rights and interests of migrant women and ensures the integration of migrant women into their families and local communities; and that it promotes the integration of women workers into their families and communities. and i just want to add that at a critical moment, when there is actually a setback for the first time in decades in the rights of women and girls worldwide, we call on the european parliament to support this recommendation.
member of the commission. – madam president, later this month the united nations commission on the status of women will hold its 62nd session in new york. this year the priority theme is the empowerment of rural women and girls, while the review theme is participation in, and access of women to, the media and information and communication technologies and their impact on, and use as, an instrument for the advancement and empowerment of women. i am happy that, as in previous years, there will be an eu delegation representing the team of europe led by my colleague, neven mimica, with members of the european parliament as part of the eu delegation. the position of women and the full enjoyment of their human rights by women and girls are still areas of concern for us in 2018. progress on these topics is by no means a given. in fact, we have seen attempts to go backwards and to call into question once again the rights of women and girls, including in europe. we discussed these questions thoroughly, together with many stakeholders, during the annual colloquium on fundamental rights in november last year. in this global context, the eu is one of the world leaders in gender equality. we are by far the biggest investor. with the eur 500 million eu-un spotlight initiative, the latest commitment to collaborate with other international organisations in combating violence against women, a global alliance is being formed. and, to mitigate gender—based violence in humanitarian crises, the eu has taken over the leadership for the call to action on protection from gender-based violence in emergencies. furthermore, the eu will strive for the session to adopt agreed conclusions that take into account the particular reality of rural women and girls world-wide, that challenge social norms and gender stereotypes, that promote equal economic independence for women and men, that promote women’s participation in decision—making at all levels, and that strengthen the prevention of all forms of violence against women and girls and the protection of its victims. i would like to thank parliament for drafting such a comprehensive document that captures the priorities related to this year’s priority team very well. the members of the european parliament have an important role to play, complementary to that of the member states and the other eu institutions. i am very happy to be here today, and i welcome this opportunity to listen to your views on priorities for the upcoming session.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that it should be involved in the negotiations. the assembly will discuss many issues, particularly the specific situation of rural women in the world. i would like to thank mrs bilbao and mrs vallina for their work in producing a document which has emerged from the debate and the work of many, many of us who have taken part in these actions and which we consider to be fundamental in discussing the situation of women in rural areas. we are talking about a double discrimination suffered by women in rural areas. we talked about the difficulties of access to employment, the issues of gender-based violence, but also the need to boost public services to ensure women's access to education or, for example, also to health and sexual and reproductive health rights. and in that regard, i want to remind you especially that today, one year ago, the shedecides platform was launched, where hundreds of thousands of voices of women and men were protesting against the decision of the trump administration, which at that time was proposing to cut funding to organizations that are working on sexual and reproductive health rights. we talk about women's health, we talk about girls' health, and we cannot risk ignoring these dangers. so let us continue to be the many voices for women's sexual and reproductive health rights around the world.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam jourová, the media and information technologies show us how we see ourselves, our own image as a society, and, looking at them, we see that too many stereotypes about men and women are maintained, that we continue to offer young people roles and visions of the past. the best gender equality initiatives focus on fighting prejudice in children and youth, teaching equality and non-discrimination, telling girls that they can be whatever they want to be and that they can want the same things as boys. but these initiatives struggle with a disadvantage in the face of media inertia, which continues to offer images and stories of women and girls in highly sexualized or traditional roles. the audience observes how while a man is valued on the basis of his experience or knowledge, a woman's main thing is usually her physical appearance. i think this has a lot to do with the organizational culture of the media and the low presence of women in leadership positions. if this gap in representation is present in all sectors, it will have much more significant consequences in the field of communication and new technologies. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of the internet in the fight against discrimination.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, commissioner: three proposals that concern us women in rural areas today. the first question: we want protection against transnational corporations that occupy our land, our territories, often with great violence and, in addition, to steal our natural resources and also our waters. secondly, protection against industrial agriculture which destroys our jobs, pollutes, fumigates entire villages and, moreover, drives us out of our local markets and our neighbouring markets. and a third point: the legal recognition of our rights as farmers through laws on shared ownership which give us 50% of the income from the farm, 50% of the subsidies, 50% of the production rights, and which also guarantee us a decent pension. and in this connection i would ask you, commissioner - and i conclude - to withdraw the pan-european product for individual pensions, which is going to lead to a greater pension gap for rural women.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, it has been a pleasure to hear your views and recommendations for the council on the upcoming meeting of the commission on the status of women and i am happy to see such strong commitment and i hope our levels of ambition will be met.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, thank you all for your contributions. i could end this debate by insisting on the measures we propose, by breaking down statistics. it could be a polite speech, correct, but i think cold. violence against women, discrimination, inequality, all deserve shock treatment. so i'm going to tell you about ifé, a woman who popped up on my personal blog one day in an entry i dedicated to condemning the violent murder of a woman like her. her name was ada, no axe, no luck and no magic wand... ifé is a sub-saharan woman. for three years in a row, he cried and despaired as he tried to survive in the first world, while saving to seek a better future in the third. for though her bright, smooth, black skin sometimes reflected neon, her every day was the red lamps that signaled her ordeal. it was the half-darkness. it was the dancing contract that allowed her to get a residency permit. it was the sinister choreography of domination, of abuse, of disrespect, of dehumanization. it was the bills he kept and it was the ones that the criminal took from him after every night of "services". jephthah wept much, but each tear reminded her that the alternative was to marry at twelve years of age a much older man chosen by her father, a stiff, rude one; to suffer a frightful mutilation to make her an object in the service of the lord of the house; to travel tens of kilometers daily hunched over the weight of fifteen liters of water; to breathe toxic smoke to transform what would here pass for waste into a single meal a day; to plow the earth with her nails; to give birth to a few children and see half of them die; to go hungry; to suffer, little by little, the loss of teeth, the brilliance of her eyes, the cracks in her skin; to shut down; to end up, at twenty-four, as a worn-out, worthless piece of furniture. a just, humane, values-based world still offers many rural women, like ifé, the terrible choice between bad and worse. this report is a cry of rebellion against that reality and an attempt to change it. getting it is everyone's responsibility.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to conclude by recalling that women and girls in the rural world are essential agents in achieving the eradication of poverty worldwide, ending hunger, promoting sustainable agriculture and achieving food security. thank you so much for all the input. i think we are dealing with a consensus report, a joint report between the alde group and the gue/ngl group, in which both groups have worked to bring positions closer together, first among themselves and then with the other groups. so i would like to thank you again for your contributions. and at this point i ask for a majority and a firm support for the text of the report as adopted by the committee on women's rights and gender equality and which has as its priority to contribute to the empowerment of women and girls in rural areas.
madam president, i would like to ask that the matter be referred back to the committee responsible for the interinstitutional negotiations, in accordance with rule 59 (4) of the rules of procedure.
madam president, i join my colleagues in stressing the importance of this regulation. i am satisfied with what we have adopted and with the mandate we are going to have from parliament. i think that there has been a sensitivity to the traditional methods, in my country's case the 'solera' method in sherry brandy, which is very important. it was included in spanish legislation and we feared that it could not now be transferred to european legislation. i think that respect has been shown for traditional methods, and i welcome that. but i want to say that i voted against the introduction of nutritional profiles in this regulation. that is not to say that i am against the need to debate and advance nutritional profiles in alcoholic beverages, but this was certainly not the regulation and it is not the right time. that is why i voted against those amendments in particular. i am satisfied with the general outline of what has been agreed in relation to this regulation.
i am not discovering anything new to this parliament if i tell you that i am convinced of the need for rules which oblige governments and companies to give all economic information in a transparent way. that is why we have supported this text, because it is going in the right direction. the existence of secret tax agreements between companies and member states or the policies of tax dumping as a way of competing between one member state and another does not contribute to any wealth creation, it only contributes to fraud and evasion and tax havens, as we are seeing on a permanent basis. i am convinced that the proposals along the lines of those made in this consultation are the way to fight tax inequality. we need more compulsory information, publicity in agreements between member states and transnational companies. we must close the tax loopholes with transparency and up-to-date information in the short term. these proposals, which were made by the econ committee and supported almost unanimously, are a response to all the european citizens who expect us to react to their indignation.
madam president, i want to express my support for this own-initiative report, for the great work that has been done, especially by my colleague mr nekov, in our group. i think that a very comprehensive report has been produced, and i hope that the european commission will take advantage of it in order to tackle the serious problem of bee mortality. it is a serious problem and therefore must be tackled seriously, with serious measures, in order to have a good response and not cause problems for the environment. but i would like to stress in my speech that the amendment proposed by a group of colleagues on the total ban on neonicotinoids is not, in my view, appropriate. we cannot make political decisions based on influx alone, on who knows what. in other words, policy decisions must be based on the results of scientific analysis and i therefore strongly agree with the efsa's view that some neonicotinoids should be partially banned.
mr president, i ask this parliament, on the basis of rule 7 of its rules of procedure, to address the spanish authorities to express concern about the situation of former mep oriol junqueras i vies, now a political prisoner.
mr president, i would like to remind mrs miranda that in spain there are no political prisoners, there are criminals, and there are coup criminals, like the man you have mentioned. he must have had a mental lapse. yes, yes, show the shirt, mrs. miranda! coup criminals are those people, not political prisoners, who do not exist in a democracy such as spain.
on behalf of the ppe group we are in favour of the debate because we are in favour of transparency, but we are not in favour of a resolution for three reasons. firstly, the appointment of the secretary-general is a political competence of the president of the commission and a resolution would be tantamount to parliament telling the president of the commission who he can and cannot appoint as secretary-general. we would not accept that the commission should say that to the president of parliament. secondly, because that is the responsibility of the committee on budgetary control and we should wait for the committee on budgetary control to say whether it has anything to say. and thirdly, we are here to control the commission politically, not to control the commission's administrative procedures. we control political procedures. it would be senseless, absurd, if we were more demanding with the commission's administrative procedures than we are with parliament's administrative procedures.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, we understand that the committee on budgetary control must indeed analyse this matter as all those which have to do with the approval of budgetary management. but i insist that this house should take a decision on something which is the political competence of the president of the commission, as if the commission were to take a decision on something which is the political competence of the president of parliament. we still do not understand that there should be a resolution on this matter.
mr president, first of all we should ask where president juncker is, because he, not you, should be the best person to answer questions about the double promotion of mr selmayr, which was approved at the college meeting on 21 february. but, i have some questions for you, commissioner oettinger. how long beforehand were you informed that mr selmayr was the only candidate for this post? to many observers giving mr selmayr a double promotion did not respect at least two articles of the statute for eu civil servants. article 29 requires an internal competition for the vacant post of deputy secretary—general. mr selmayr only had the grade of director and he was appointed deputy secretary—general. commissioner oettinger, for how long did he hold this post? article 4 requires the appointing authority and the staff of the commission to be informed. this was not the case. so, commissioner oettinger, was it a fake internal competition? it seems an abuse of power. i welcome the fact that the eu ombudsman is analysing this affair. colleagues, such behaviours and abuses of power are fuelling anti—european sentiment all over europe.
mr president, i subscribe to the request that, now that we are also in the process of discharge, the committee on budgetary control should give mr oettinger the necessary hearing: we have the capacity and we have already asked for it. but anyway, mr oettinger, i wanted to point out that for years, for years we have been asking in this parliament - and in the context of the discharge - for some changes and some tightening of the appointments to senior posts, and we have never been given any consideration. and when that finally happens, it turns out that i cannot even be happy or we can be happy because the whole procedure is tainted by that express decision of appointing the secretary-general, which is inadmissible even if it is legal and even legitimate, but which has been done in such a way that it has now put us in the middle of a storm that prevents us from focusing on the essentials - brexit and its consequences, the 2020 budgets, the pillar of social rights, migration policy, etc. - in short, the essential issues of the european union, and instead of the essential, we find ourselves at this moment talking about the functioning, the malfunctioning, the opaque functioning of the institutions. in view of what has happened in this house of commissioners - and i must remind you that everyone approved it, although they later weep, complain and say other things in the corridors - we in parliament are therefore obliged to take some decisions in this sterile debate. i certainly agree that, in the context of discharge and the committee on budgetary control, which is where we usually carry out the control, we will certainly have to carry out this hearing and this in-depth control. and i would also ask you, mr oettinger, since i know that you are capable of doing so, to tell us here that before the end of this year - which is what the socialists have asked for - the commission will present us with a proposal for the appointment of senior representatives, senior officials, which is definitely more transparent, which is up to date and also respects the equal rights of officials. i think we all deserve it and so does europe for its future.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me first thank parliament, the committee on women’s rights and gender equality (femm) and the committee on international trade (inta), and, of course, the co-rapporteurs ms malin björk and ms eleonora forenza, for the attention, the work and the time that they have invested in this report on gender equality in eu trade agreements. it makes a very valuable contribution to strengthening gender aspects in eu trade policy. the commission is committed to gender equality. eu trade policy already contributes to this goal through some of its instruments, for example, its sustainability impact assessments, the generalised system of preferences, the gsp+ and the trade and sustainable development chapters of the european union’s free trade agreements. however, we need to do more. to gather input from stakeholders, in june last year the commission and the international trade centre organised an international forum on women and trade, to which the honourable members mosca, rodríguez-piñero and forenza kindly contributed as speakers. the commission has already put some of the ideas that emerged from this event into practice, and i can assure you that we will continue to do so. the report identifies a lack of adequate data on trade and gender equality when it comes to determining the impact of trade policy instruments on women. in cooperation with other international organisations, for example the world trade organisation (wto), the international trade centre, united nations conference on trade and development (unctad), the oecd or the european institutes for gender equality, we are exploring how to better collect and use data on the impact of trade policy instruments on women. we are also looking to improve our analysis by using the most advanced methods, like the unctad toolbox on trade and gender. following a suggestion from this house, the commission and the international trade centre are also launching a collection of firm level data on women entrepreneurship and female employment in eu-exporting and importing firms. let me mention some further activities to contribute to the promotion of women’s economic empowerment: the european union’s recently reviewed aid for trade strategy introduces, for all its projects, the requirement of a systematic gender analysis. we are currently working with chile on gender-specific provisions in the context of modernisation of the existing eu-chile association agreement. these provisions will include commitments to effectively implement relevant international legal instruments on gender equality, such as the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women and a structured framework for cooperating and sharing best practices on women in international trade. the commission will keep the inta committee informed about the development of the eu proposals for these provisions on trade and gender. in the international arena, the eu actively supported the adoption of the joint declaration on trade and women’s economic empowerment on the occasion of the wto ministerial conference in buenos aires in december 2017. the declaration seeks to remove barriers to and foster women’s economic empowerment. we now need to move ahead with implementation. the commission is ready to sponsor several follow-up actions, such as organising workshops, collecting data on women’s participation in international trade, and applying a gender lens to our trade-related technical assistance. finally, the commission uses every opportunity to raise awareness of the importance of gender equality for economic growth and the opportunities that trade can provide, including through trade policy reviews in the wto. last but not least, the eu’s commitment towards gender equality and women’s empowerment has been expanded by the eu gender action plan too, placing gender at the heart of the european union’s actions, from international relations to commercial agreements, and holding all of us accountable for its achievements. i look forward to hearing your views.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation is a good example of the need to ensure that the protection of the environment is not jeopardised by the introduction of new technologies. the equality clauses only mask the obvious incompatibility between this type of treaty and respect for life. how does the commission intend to ensure gender equality? will trade agreements require the extension of paid, non-transferable maternity and paternity leave and guarantee return to work? will they force a ban and penalize the wage gap? will the privatisation of public services be prohibited so that care is the responsibility of the state and not systematically falling on women? will you guarantee free access to day care and nursery schools? and they're gonna ban the trafficking of women and prosecute those who pay for prostitution? the millions of women who supported the feminist strike on march 8th demanded real political changes, not just words. and that is our mandate.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, we liberals know very well that free trade is a very powerful engine of progress, thanks to which hundreds of millions of people have been lifted out of poverty. women can be the great beneficiaries of trade, as long as they have the power and protection necessary for their talent. europe does business with countries like iran or saudi arabia, where women live in a semi-slavery regime. only 20% of the european union's trade agreements refer to women's rights. i would also like to ask that all agreements signed should include binding and enforceable provisions on this subject. it is very significant that the current enemies of trade, from trump to wilders, are also enemies of gender equality. reactionaries always try to preserve certain privileges. that is why the best weapons we have against them and for progress are precisely trade and equality.
madam president, first of all i congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent work, on the consensus reached and on the content of the 56 amendments which i have tabled on behalf of the socialist and democratic group. and i thank the commissioner, and also commissioner malmström, for her commitment to gender mainstreaming in trade policy, which is essential to progress but still very insufficient. because let us not forget that the number of years it takes to achieve parity keeps growing and is already 52 years old. women are half the population, but we represent more than 70 percent of the world's poorest 1 billion people. the global employment rate for men is 72%, compared with 47% for women, who earn only 77% of men's wages and are mostly engaged in the informal economy. but closing the gender gap is also a matter of economic efficiency, as it would allow for an increase in global gdp if parity were reached by up to 10 trillion euros. no policy can combat inequality and change the face of poverty on its own, but i am firmly convinced that much can be done from the field of international trade. that is why i am asking the commission to support the measures contained in this report, which are widely supported by this parliament, and among which i would highlight the following: the inclusion of a gender chapter in all trade agreements, including those currently being negotiated, as well as ambitious sustainable development chapters, with effective and enforceable mandatory measures on labour rights and labour and environmental standards, taking into account, of course, women's rights and freedoms. gender impact assessments are needed and experts need to be involved in the negotiation processes throughout. and it is also essential to work towards making gender mainstreaming in trade agreements a global cause and therefore engaging the world trade organisation. only through the commitment and involvement of all will we be able to give the gender perspective the prominence it needs.
madam president, i want to congratulate the rapporteurs and i want to break a spear here for the attitude, the capacity and the willingness of commissioner malmström to incorporate the gender perspective into the european union's trade agreements. this is a good tool to spread the movement for equality across the planet and i believe that equality is a matter of fundamental rights and they are all interrelated. and i also believe that taking into account the role of women in sectors such as agriculture or services is an obligation and an exercise of consistency with the development cooperation policies which we are also supporting. thanks to them, many local communities in the countries of the south have begun to become socially and economically viable, but they are still fragile spaces that need the support of a fair system of trade relations that takes these circumstances into account. we cannot afford to destroy this flame of hope, which is also the key to solving many other problems.
madam president, commissioner, trade agreements are particularly harmful to women all over the world. the introduction of these trade agreements in the north and the south means that products are placed on the market at a price below the cost of production, they relocate production, they drive women out of local and neighbouring markets - for example in agriculture - and they generate unemployment and very poor working conditions, for example in the textile sector. if the european union wants to minimise gender impacts it must end trade agreements by and for multinationals and guarantee the right of peoples to food sovereignty and prevent all forms of dumping. the women's strike on 8 march, commissioner, reinforces the need for concrete action by public administrations.
madam president, this 8 march was a historic day: women all over the world took to the streets to denounce the inequality and violence they face on a daily basis. this inequality and discrimination is also present in trade agreements. women are underrepresented in the negotiation processes. in many cases trade agreements increase women's precarious work and we negotiate trade agreements with countries like saudi arabia, where women's rights shine by their absence. however, the economic empowerment of women is one of the sustainable development goals to which the european union has committed itself. we therefore call for gender impact assessments to be carried out on each trade agreement. we also welcome the european commission's proposal for a chapter on gender equality in the trade agreement with chile and call for this to become a standard and binding practice from now on.
madam president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteurs björk and forenza on their feminist commitment. the absence of protection of human rights, and in particular of equality, is a classic feature of european trade agreements based on privatisation and solidarity. women and girls are vulnerable groups, they are discriminated against, they are excluded, they are absent from political decisions - political decisions like the ones that led to the feminist strike on our streets on march 8th. this strike, which is already a symbol, madam commissioner, of the need for another possible world for women in europe and the world in general. we want changes in the way with binding human clauses. that is why i would like to remind you today of the women in the textile sector in rana plaza, and also of the mapuche women, who have so far been excluded from the agreements with chile.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, thank you, commissioner, it pains me to hear members saying things like what i have just heard from mrs wiśniewska. it is really hard for me at this point, after all the years we have been dealing with this issue, since 2014, to hear something that has nothing to do with the istanbul convention. the istanbul convention is the best and most comprehensive legally binding tool ever put in place to combat gender-based and domestic violence. i mean, it goes beyond violence against women. it does not intend to tell women how they should live, it only calls for legal measures to protect them and to prosecute and punish their abusers. there are countries in the union that are making up a story around it. what ideology are you talking about? what ideology are you talking about? why are they now taking it out of their sleeves to talk about gender as something it's not? we are asking the countries of the european union, and this parliament has supported this from the beginning, to show that they do not need, or support, a convention like this to protect and prosecute the aggressors. and it turns out that we have countries that are not only not ratifying it, but they're withdrawing. we have the country that is currently holding the presidency, bulgaria, which is withdrawing; poland, croatia, hungary, what is happening? i want to thank greece for ratifying it, at least there is some common sense. what are we talking about? do we agree that prejudices which seek to keep women subordinate to men and on a level of inequality are not compatible with the values of the union? i think so, and that we have to teach children what those values of respect are, too. and i ask all the governments of europe to please ratify the istanbul convention and show that they are up to the european union they claim to be a part of.
madam president, commissioner, one in three women in the european union may be a victim of gender-based violence. and to hear some of the statements that we have had to hear here in this parliament seems to me to be grossly irresponsible. to say that the istanbul convention is a weapon of the left is really disrespectful to reality. the istanbul convention is an international legal instrument to commit all countries to action to combat the greatest social ills currently existing in the world and in europe. women are being killed for the simple fact of being women, and we cannot allow that there are still eleven countries in europe which have not ratified this convention. on march 8th, the streets were painted purple. millions of women and men all over the world, in europe, took to the streets, stood up to say that this world has to be more equal, to claim the fight for equality, but also to tell women victims that they are not alone. the women and men who took to the streets gave an example of what governments need to do right now. so let's not let him waste another minute. let's be responsible, because we're talking about women's lives. the excuses being made at the moment are totally unacceptable. so we will continue to work to ensure that not one more woman is killed by sexist terrorism.
madam president, we are discussing here one of the consequences, one of the concrete consequences, of this conservative and populist wave sweeping through much of europe. we agree that gender-based violence is a serious human rights issue affecting millions of women. we have an advanced instrument of international law to combat this violence, and yet we see states resisting ratification of the best instrument we have. and those who resist give us excuses, talk about gender ideology, invent consequences of ratification that do not exist. ladies and gentlemen, this is not a matter of ideology, this is a matter of defending human rights, and defending human rights is not a matter of left, centre or right, it is the duty of everyone. i therefore ask the european commission, the council and the majority of this house to do everything we can to get the convention ratified by all the member states.
madam president, violence against women has been perpetuated through a culture of tolerance and denial. so it was a big step when the european union adopted the istanbul convention, and we did it because it is the only instrument that gives a global response to gender-based violence, the only tool that develops a strategy to prevent violence, to protect victims and to prosecute criminals. the istanbul convention also raises awareness of gender-based violence as a clear violation of human rights. we therefore call on the commission and the council to act as a driving force and to implement an action plan as a matter of urgency so that all the countries of the european union ratify the istanbul convention. my country, spain, did it in 2014, but there are still 11 countries that have not ratified it, and, ladies and gentlemen, they have to do it because we are talking about justice, not ideology.
madam president, if you attack one, you attack all. the tragedy continues. every day, the number of women killed and the number of women who suffer violence increases. ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to use ideological arguments to try to circumvent the law. that's political hypocrisy. there is a permanent femicide, victims of violence against women must be better protected throughout europe. there are data that one in three women have experienced sexual, physical or psychological harassment. the european commission must therefore act as a feminist lobby, as the lobby did in the strike of 8 march. member states should ratify the istanbul convention with more investment.
in writing. one in three women in the european union is a victim of gender-based violence. women are being killed for the mere fact of being women. we cannot allow there to be still 11 member states that have not ratified the istanbul convention, which is the most far-reaching international treaty to address violence against women as a serious violation of human rights. it is the first instrument to make the prevention and combating of gender-based violence legally binding and establishes zero tolerance for violence against women. the statements made by some governments and by members of this house are totally unacceptable because they distort reality and are grossly irresponsible. the accession of the european union and all its member states will make it possible to develop a common european legislative framework to combat violence against women. on march 8th, the streets were painted purple. millions of women and men marched to demand that society be more equal, to claim the fight for equality, but also to defend zero tolerance against gender-based violence and to tell victims that they are not alone.
in writing. one in three women in the european union is a victim of gender-based violence. women are being killed for the mere fact of being women. we cannot allow there to be still 11 member states that have not ratified the istanbul convention, which is the most far-reaching international treaty to address violence against women as a serious violation of human rights. it is the first instrument to make the prevention and combating of gender-based violence legally binding and establishes zero tolerance for violence against women. the statements made by some governments and by members of this house are totally unacceptable because they distort reality and are grossly irresponsible. the accession of the european union and all its member states will make it possible to develop a common european legislative framework to combat violence against women. on march 8th, the streets were painted purple. millions of women and men marched to demand that society be more equal, to claim the fight for equality, but also to defend zero tolerance against gender-based violence and to tell victims that they are not alone.
in writing. one in three women in the european union is a victim of gender-based violence. women are being killed for the mere fact of being women. we cannot allow there to be still 11 member states that have not ratified the istanbul convention, which is the most far-reaching international treaty to address violence against women as a serious violation of human rights. it is the first instrument to make the prevention and combating of gender-based violence legally binding and establishes zero tolerance for violence against women. the statements made by some governments and by members of this house are totally unacceptable because they distort reality and are grossly irresponsible. the accession of the european union and all its member states will make it possible to develop a common european legislative framework to combat violence against women. on march 8th, the streets were painted purple. millions of women and men marched to demand that society be more equal, to claim the fight for equality, but also to defend zero tolerance against gender-based violence and to tell victims that they are not alone.
in writing. one in three women in the european union is a victim of gender-based violence. women are being killed for the mere fact of being women. we cannot allow there to be still 11 member states that have not ratified the istanbul convention, which is the most far-reaching international treaty to address violence against women as a serious violation of human rights. it is the first instrument to make the prevention and combating of gender-based violence legally binding and establishes zero tolerance for violence against women. the statements made by some governments and by members of this house are totally unacceptable because they distort reality and are grossly irresponsible. the accession of the european union and all its member states will make it possible to develop a common european legislative framework to combat violence against women. on march 8th, the streets were painted purple. millions of women and men marched to demand that society be more equal, to claim the fight for equality, but also to defend zero tolerance against gender-based violence and to tell victims that they are not alone.
in writing. one in three women in the european union is a victim of gender-based violence. women are being killed for the mere fact of being women. we cannot allow there to be still 11 member states that have not ratified the istanbul convention, which is the most far-reaching international treaty to address violence against women as a serious violation of human rights. it is the first instrument to make the prevention and combating of gender-based violence legally binding and establishes zero tolerance for violence against women. the statements made by some governments and by members of this house are totally unacceptable because they distort reality and are grossly irresponsible. the accession of the european union and all its member states will make it possible to develop a common european legislative framework to combat violence against women. on march 8th, the streets were painted purple. millions of women and men marched to demand that society be more equal, to claim the fight for equality, but also to defend zero tolerance against gender-based violence and to tell victims that they are not alone.
in writing. one in three women in the european union is a victim of gender-based violence. women are being killed for the mere fact of being women. we cannot allow there to be still 11 member states that have not ratified the istanbul convention, which is the most far-reaching international treaty to address violence against women as a serious violation of human rights. it is the first instrument to make the prevention and combating of gender-based violence legally binding and establishes zero tolerance for violence against women. the statements made by some governments and by members of this house are totally unacceptable because they distort reality and are grossly irresponsible. the accession of the european union and all its member states will make it possible to develop a common european legislative framework to combat violence against women. on march 8th, the streets were painted purple. millions of women and men marched to demand that society be more equal, to claim the fight for equality, but also to defend zero tolerance against gender-based violence and to tell victims that they are not alone.
in writing. one in three women in the european union is a victim of gender-based violence. women are being killed for the mere fact of being women. we cannot allow there to be still 11 member states that have not ratified the istanbul convention, which is the most far-reaching international treaty to address violence against women as a serious violation of human rights. it is the first instrument to make the prevention and combating of gender-based violence legally binding and establishes zero tolerance for violence against women. the statements made by some governments and by members of this house are totally unacceptable because they distort reality and are grossly irresponsible. the accession of the european union and all its member states will make it possible to develop a common european legislative framework to combat violence against women. on march 8th, the streets were painted purple. millions of women and men marched to demand that society be more equal, to claim the fight for equality, but also to defend zero tolerance against gender-based violence and to tell victims that they are not alone.
mr president, i would like to congratulate lucy anderson in particular, because whenever she reports she does so very well and it has been a pleasure, as always, to work with her. the european people's party group has always wanted to defend small and mediumsized enterprises and consumers, as we have done in all our reports. consumers will have more transparent prices, will be able to buy from suppliers and choose services better informed. moreover, this regulation does not only apply to traditional operators the postal services. we wanted to make sure that start-ups, that is, new e-commerce platforms, had to report their fees. we have argued that, today, since goods bought online reach consumers through numerous agents, all of them must be included in the provision of information. however, in order to avoid overloading small local operators, companies with fewer than 50 employees have been excluded. i just hope that doesn't mean that new business models with strong market penetration, like amazon, are exempt from providing information.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to thank mr lundgren for his efforts to reach an agreement and the other alternative rapporteurs for the good work they have done. this directive will improve the training of professional drivers in professional transport and bring it closer to their needs today in a sector which is undergoing profound transformation thanks to the evolution of vehicles, roads and regulations. the incorporation of issues such as driving in extreme weather conditions, environmentally efficient driving or driving in particularly congested areas certainly adds to road safety. in addition, drivers' influence on the profitability of the service they provide is increased. finally, it will help to level the playing field in the internal market. these factors, combined, will improve the social and employment position of these professionals in the transport value chain. our main objective during the negotiations has therefore been to facilitate the processes of training and permanent recycling by means of technological tools or in-vehicle training processes. at the same time, we want to anticipate the needs of a sector which is already experiencing a real revolution in the new information and communication technologies and the emergence of new vehicles with clean engines and other features of autonomy and maintenance. finally, we regret that we have not succeeded in completely eliminating the exceptions which will remove from the scope of this directive those who carry out transport operations as part of their own business activity in the primary sector on journeys of less than 50 kilometres. most of these transports are carried out on secondary roads and these roads are generally in worse condition than the main roads, combined with the confidence that habit generates. more training would certainly increase road safety in these areas, which are the most accident-prone areas because of the intensity of traffic.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, climate change is undeniable and a daily reality. and we're seeing an increase in extreme temperatures, forest fires, droughts, floods and storms, as well as the proliferation of invasive alien species and biodiversity loss, and on the other hand, competition for water and energy demand. the evidence of human responsibility for climate change is overwhelming and is already having devastating environmental effects and high socioeconomic costs, especially for the most vulnerable populations. climate change is also accentuating social disparities across our union. some social groups are more exposed than others because of poor health, low income, inadequate housing, lack of mobility or gender issues, among other factors. but the whole of the population is already suffering serious health problems due to pollution, with cancers, allergies, premature deaths, etc. a real social drama that also involves tremendous health costs. the money we don't spend on investing to correct the problem then multiplies in healthcare spending. the report i am presenting therefore deplores, first of all, the withdrawal of the united states from the paris agreement and presents alternatives and responses from the perspective of the role of cities and municipalities in the fight against climate change. the european union has a lot of work ahead of it and contributes - it must be said - to 9% of global emissions and its cities generate 75% of them. more than 70% of europeans and 73% of jobs are in urban areas. cities have a great responsibility for global warming and a great potential for solutions. as it cannot be otherwise, i really want to thank the efforts made by the other meps, the alternative rapporteurs, in reaching a majority consensus of all the political groups. it has been a lot of teamwork, involving several experts in the field, and we have collected an important social demand: to put the fight against climate change on the political agenda, once again and forcefully. the report can be a real political reference point on the role of european regions and cities in climate change. i also ask all the members of this house to vote in favour tomorrow and thus make an important step forward on the issue of global warming. it would be a real and definitive step forward in the fight against global warming. it should not be forgotten that the european parliament is the voice of the people and in this report it underlines the urgency and the extreme importance of combating global warming. the european commission must therefore take up and implement the proposals in this report, although sometimes i, as a spaniard, have to regret that it is precisely the commissioner for climate action and energy, mr arias cañete, who is known in my country for the measures against renewable energies that are being implemented in our country. you know it well: tax on the sun, etc. and, to make matters worse, the spanish government has for years been pursuing a policy of cutting the powers and economic resources of local authorities, unacceptably limiting their capacity to implement measures against global warming. it is time for us to assume the political responsibility that has been entrusted to us by the citizens. let's not get carried away. let's take some serious action. and that is why i would like this report to be tabled tomorrow, and with that very important amendment which has been tabled separately.
madam president, my first speech as a member of the european parliament in this part of the house is in support of the popular movements in defence of pensions, housing, public health, education, equality and freedom of expression. movements in defence of democracy. in the case of galicia and the spanish state, the popular movements arise out of passivity and against the structural reforms of the popular party, which aim to level down present and future living conditions. about pensions, do you know what mr. rajoy's government is doing? the increase in poverty is a lie, because the expenditure to maintain the system is less than that spent by the eu as a whole, so the effort could be increased if there was political will. the differences between men and women are also large and, in the case of galicia, pensions are the second lowest in the state. and you know what the social response is? a revolution of grandmothers who took to the streets demanding decent pensions. another movement is the housing movement, which is here today. the platform of those affected by mortgages, which has won an award in this parliament, wants to discuss the housing law in the european parliament, and the people's party does not allow it.
madam president, there are at least three million empty houses in spain. meanwhile, the number of evictions remains unbearable: one eviction every eight minutes. these are two sides of the speculative economic development on which the spanish economy has been based, an economic model which has plundered our territory and has directly attacked the basic rights of the population, such as the right to housing. meanwhile, self-organized social movements, such as the mortgage affected platform, have been fighting for the most basic social rights for years. the spanish government has always preferred to rescue banks rather than families and now wants to veto even the possibility of debating the legislative initiative presented by the pah in parliament. we want to show our rejection of the pp government's attempt to suspend democracy by avoiding even discussing the pah proposals, to which we want to show our full support in the european parliament. to them, to their proposals, to their struggle and to their initiative.
madam president, i would like to say again that this house rightly condemns attacks on human rights in all parts of the world, some of which are almost unknown even to us. but this house has been unable to address the attacks on human rights and democratic principles that are constantly being committed in spain against the catalans. after a democratic election won by the pro-independence forces, the spanish government does not accept the result and orders a judge to decide who should be president of the government of catalonia. that would be a major scandal in any other state and it's a scandal for any first-year law student. while in spain and other european countries the far right is advancing unchecked, this house is silent. we catalans are in favour of a europe of freedom, rights and justice; the rest is despicable to us. i hope that one day this parliament will wake up in shame: that it will not be too late.
madam president, a few days ago we had confirmation that the trump administration was deciding to impose tariffs on aluminium and steel, also on the europeans, on the grounds of security. certainly to claim security reasons with respect to a partner, such as europe, is one more of the absurd ideas that the trump administration is teaching us these last times. in my region, in asturias, we have very important companies both in steel and aluminum, companies that may be harmed by this protectionist threat from the trump administration, not so much because we export a lot to the united states, but because of the possible trade-diverting effect of those tariffs. i therefore support the firm, swift response of the european commission and i demand that this european parliament closely follow the activities of the trump administration. many of us believe in good transatlantic relations. let us hope that this decision will have a clear response from europe.
(start of the intervention off the microphone) ... for brexit and we still do not know what relationship the uk wants to maintain with us in the future. we do not yet know what the consequences of brexit will be for the british real economy. we don't even know if there's going to be a second referendum. the rural population of britain believes that brexit is already done. the city of london, on the other hand, believes brexit will never happen. the only certainty that the british government gives us is that they want to be left out: out of the single market, out of the customs union, out of the financial passport, out of community aid, out of the political, social and economic world to which they belong; for example, to leave out the half million britons who live in spain and who after brexit next year will not be able to vote and elect the mayors of their municipalities. we have a year left. we have one year to get a balanced deal. no brexit deal can be good. we have one year to get a deal that doesn't hurt either of us. we have one year before the british government understands that the worst of deals is always better than chaos. it is true that the european union will be incomplete without the united kingdom, but the united kingdom completely outside the european union will be lost. chaos and magical thinking are not politics and that even i have learned from the glorious history of britain.
mr president, i would like to begin by expressing the hope that we can find between the european union and the united kingdom a close, balanced and mutually beneficial future partnership which will enable us to tackle in a coordinated way many of the challenges we share. i want to emphasize one area in which we must continue to cooperate closely, as mr vandenkendelaere has already mentioned. european fishermen have long been fishing in british waters and in its exclusive economic zone and, conversely, british vessels have been fishing in the waters and exclusive economic zones of the member states. this must continue to be the case and to do so we must reach a specific fisheries agreement. trade in fishery products should also continue. some 67% of uk exports of fish and seafood go to european markets. i hope that these trade flows will be maintained, but to do so, reciprocal access to the waters must also be maintained: fish knows no borders; the management of the fish stocks we share must also be carried out in close coordination. the fisheries sector is one area in which we will have to achieve a constructive, mutually beneficial future relationship. access to water and access to markets should be closely linked.
mr president, two years have passed since that unfortunate referendum in which a tragic mistake was made by a european leader - and not for the first time - who tried to curb the populism and euro-phobia so represented in this house by embracing its flags. but the damage is done. many of us didn't want to. and what we've seen, despite the complexity and the darkness that transpires in many of the debates about the follow-up to brexit, is that european public opinion, which didn't want it, has already gotten used to the idea. but this contrasts with the confusion of the british position: no clarity on northern ireland, on gibraltar - territories which, by the way, voted against brexit - and, above all, concern about commercial aviation agreements by companies with british capital. that is why clarity, resolve and determination are so essential, mr barnier, because time is running against us and the hourglass is telling us when the negotiations are due to expire. the time to carry it out is now. the hourglass is running against us.
mr president, mr barnier, you are known as the commissioner for regional policy and you know what fisheries and cohesion policy are all about. we would like to know whether the european commission - as we asked you a year ago - has carried out an impact study on european fisheries, particularly in relation to galicia, as it is a fishing country that will be hit hard by the consequences of brexit. we would also like to know what the impact will be on the free movement of persons. many young people from my country have emigrated to the uk and we do not know what will become of them as citizens of the union. they're at an impasse. it's not just one or two people. there are over 40,000 people of galician origin living in the uk.
madam president, thank you very much to the council and also to the vice-president of the commission. looking back to the origins of the european union, the single market was a vision of the future about the need to act together if we wanted europe's economies to have a framework to optimise their development and to be able to compete in the world. this, which was just an idea at first, has developed slowly and has now, in the 21st century, become the only possibility for individual european countries to make their economies competitive and their citizens increasingly prosperous. and in that context, the digital single market is fundamental. if we look back four years, i think it was a remarkable achievement, both on the part of the commission and on the part of parliament, to focus one of the points of action and decision on the development of the digital transformation, and to favour everything that made it possible. today we can say that we have delivered in that sense. and in that sense, i believe that we are going to be facing elections shortly with a set of decisions that are decisive for the european economy to reach precisely those levels of global competitiveness. i would like to stress the importance of the interim agreement that has been reached on radio spectrum, which is a pioneering agreement and which will allow 5g to be able to be deployed in europe before the end of 2020, offering extraordinary possibilities for the development of the digital transformation in europe.
in writing. the next european council is taking place at a crucial moment, when nationalist winds are blowing strongly in russia, china and the united states. in this context, the eu needs to assert its own project for life with a long-term strategy based on human dignity, justice, democracy and sustainable development. our commitment to the european pillar of social rights is unwavering. we will await the final content of the social justice package proposed by the commission, which must guarantee our citizens full social protection to eradicate inequalities. the financing of the social pillar brings us to a fundamental issue to be discussed at the next european council: fair taxation. it is unacceptable that multinationals pay less and less tax while our governments are cutting welfare. if we want to avoid the insecurity surrounding our citizens, and if we want to prevent the nationalist and xenophobic forces from gaining ground, we must reverse this trend. if eu leaders are serious about changing the eu's socioeconomic context, their commitment to fair taxation must be a reality at the next european council.
in writing. the next european council is taking place at a crucial moment, when nationalist winds are blowing strongly in russia, china and the united states. in this context, the eu needs to assert its own project for life with a long-term strategy based on human dignity, justice, democracy and sustainable development. our commitment to the european pillar of social rights is unwavering. we will await the final content of the social justice package proposed by the commission, which must guarantee our citizens full social protection to eradicate inequalities. the financing of the social pillar brings us to a fundamental issue to be discussed at the next european council: fair taxation. it is unacceptable that multinationals pay less and less tax while our governments are cutting welfare. if we want to avoid the insecurity surrounding our citizens, and if we want to prevent the nationalist and xenophobic forces from gaining ground, we must reverse this trend. if eu leaders are serious about changing the eu's socioeconomic context, their commitment to fair taxation must be a reality at the next european council.
mr president, combating climate change requires both large and small actions, and that 'small, local' scale is the one that is showing the greatest commitment to the energy transition. the national commitments made by governments in the paris agreement have proved to be insufficient and i would therefore like to congratulate the municipalities and regions who are taking action today. in spain, for example, the municipalities of change are playing a key role, with measures such as those in madrid, barcelona and cadiz to ensure that public buildings are supplied with 100% renewable energy, to support energy efficiency in households or to eradicate energy poverty. secondly, in the coal-dependent regions, we must safeguard the dignity of their people. we therefore demand clarity on the dates for the closure of coal, because only with a clearly marked and well-marked end horizon can we activate all the social actors necessary for a just transition with alternatives. from our cities and from our counties we must put the new, more sustainable energy system in the hands of the people.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat this. mr president, commissioner oettinger, it gives me great pleasure to hear your progress since we started the debate on the financial framework. after hearing what you've said today, your words, i have to say i love your evolution. on behalf of the committee on fisheries, i would like to stress the socioeconomic and ecological importance of the fisheries sector, the marine environment and the blue economy. this 'small budget but very important' fisheries sector needs a specific fund for fisheries that is adequately funded, independent and accessible to implement this policy. otherwise, it could really be seriously affected. it is also necessary to maintain the level of financial appropriations allocated to this sector under the current financial framework and to increase financial appropriations for maritime affairs should new needs arise. this is important. i agree with what mrs ribeiro said about the cap: we want a cap that is sufficiently endowed and not re-nationalised.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. mr president, commissioner, the financial framework is the most powerful political instrument in existence to make the political priorities of the european union possible and real. so even though there has been no reference to this in the course of this debate, i am sure that you share my view that this financial framework should have a female face. because policies aimed at eliminating discrimination between men and women must be incorporated into european policy. because the fight against gender-based violence must also be made a priority of european policy. because it is necessary to consolidate, from european policy, public services which favour the reconciliation of family and working life. because european politics must be made into a space where we can make the fundamental principle of equality between men and women a reality. i hope you will not forget this, and i hope we will not forget this in the work ahead of us to make these financial perspectives a real political instrument for making gender equality a reality in europe too.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this parliament has to send a clear message to the commission and to the member states concerning the next multiannual financial framework (mff). if we want an ambitious eu, a union that is able to deal with key challenges of our times and to deliver real outcomes in terms of progress, sustainability, equality and fundamental freedoms, then we need to reverse the downward trend in the amount spent by the eu, a trend that has been aggravated by the current mff. if we need to fight against growing populism and euroscepticism, the worst thing we could do would be to adopt proposals from populists and from eurosceptics, because with a small budget the european union will be unable to deliver. thus it would be even more meaningless to those many people who already don’t see what the eu is here for. in other words, to demonstrate the added value of the eu, we need to invest more and more efficiently in policies where the eu can really make a difference. this has to be the first key message to the member states: don’t use brexit to make further cuts in our budget and diminish our ambitions. secondly, the next mff needs to focus more on delivering results in sustainability and in the fight against climate change. the eu must translate its commitment to the paris agreement into a real budgetary majority. that’s why our group stressed so much the importance of aligning the eu budget with the sustainable development goals and to significantly increase climate-related spending to reach at least the 30% target as soon as possible.
mr president, commissioner, today we are faced with one of the most important debates of the whole term of office, because we are talking, nothing more and nothing less, about what kind of europe we want to build in the next decade. and this is not just a budgetary debate, it is above all a political debate, because where we put the resources is where the real priorities of the union will be. we have signed many landmark agreements in this parliament: the paris agreement to combat climate change, the gothenburg agreements for a real social pillar; we have even signed the sustainable development goals. and it is now that we have to decide how we are going to finance them and, therefore, it is now that we are going to demonstrate the extent of our commitment. in recent months we have been hearing great philosophical phrases when we talk about the budget - mr omarjee said that too: some say it must be modernised and others say more must be done with less. this may look great in a headline, but this, budgetarily speaking, is not possible more with less, can't be done and the fact that we want to modernise a budget does not mean that we can cut it, quite the opposite. and this parliament has very clear ideas of what we want for the future financial framework and we could define it in three blocks. the first block: maintaining the financing of the traditional policies, i.e. agriculture and cohesion. we are asking our farmers and livestock farmers to produce in accordance with environmental criteria; to offer us quality products at affordable prices; to keep the population in the countryside and, above all, to encourage young people to enter the sector. and all of this cannot be done with less budget support. we also advocate a strong cohesion policy so that europe remains competitive, so that its regions reduce inequalities, so that it invests in innovation and, above all, so that this competitiveness does not come at the expense of wages and the social rights of workers. the second block is what we might call 'future' policies. here we not only want to maintain funding, but we want to increase erasmus grants, research programmes or investment programmes. and thirdly - and this is a very clear message - new needs require a new budget, and we do not want to pit one priority against another, as the commissioner said. i would like to end by highlighting two ideas which i hope the commission will listen to carefully. first proposal: the conditionality of the funds with respect to compliance with the rules, because we propose a system of sanctions for those countries which do not comply with the rules or their commitments, but we disconnect these sanctions from the cohesion funds completely. the union must help these regions and that is why we are proposing a just transition fund which will focus not only on the regions but also on the social challenges of this transition. and how do we finance all this? we have already said here: with new own resources; with taxes on sectors which no longer contribute to the public sector; with taxes on the financial sector; and with taxes on large companies which take advantage of the fact that there is no european regulation to avoid paying their taxes. i would like to conclude, mr president, by thanking all four rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done, for the negotiations and for the generosity with which they have negotiated, because that is how we can have a strong agreement, supported by the majority of the groups in this house.
mr. president, with a minute, i'll be direct and clear. we need a larger european budget, but one which does not undermine the fiscal capacity of the member states: they must complement each other. and we also have to have progressive models on capital income. we need more public resources, not less, to tackle the challenges that concern europeans, mainly unemployment, the environment, precariousness and poverty or tax fraud; the gains made in the fight against tax fraud would be an excellent source of revenue, along with new figures for eco-quotas or a tax on financial transactions. however, the priorities seem to be different. it seems to be rather the strengthening of europe's strength and its militarization, increasing or even doubling defence spending. we do not share these priorities set by the european commission. the priorities should be other: employment policy, support for small farmers, compliance with international asylum legislation, and the sociological transition of our economies and regions. and to do that, we need a stronger budget, but above all a fairer one.
madam president, commissioner, we are having a very important debate today which will shape the future of the european union, because we need to expand and improve the european union's own resources. and within that own resources package, these reports point to the need for the profits of the european central bank to contribute to the euro area budget, and to contribute to building that fiscal pillar throughout the euro area. it's a useful tool. it is an instrument which could bring in around 1 billion euros a year. it is a very important instrument, and it is not a tax instrument. there's no taxes behind this self-serve channel. and, moreover, there would be no need for a major reform of the treaties, as the house itself has said, the legal advice of this house itself. we need to value membership of the euro. we need to dignify the euro. parliament and the commission are united in this endeavour and the council must listen.
madam president, the forthcoming financial perspective is very important for many regions and citizens. european funding has played a crucial role in the common agricultural policy and also in strengthening economic, social and territorial cohesion. it has to remain crucial. we cannot let our citizens down and give an argument to anti-europeans and populists. all member states must therefore make an effort in this future financial framework to ensure that our farmers, stock farmers and fishermen continue to be served by european funding and also to ensure that cohesion policies are advanced. i will mention some specific challenges that require european funding: from demographic decline and the erasmus+ programme to security and defence; also research and innovation; also strengthening borders and helping neighbouring and sub-saharan countries to achieve stability and well-being that prevents illegal immigration. the challenges, ladies and gentlemen, are many. european funding is essential. the effort of all the member states is indispensable for this funding to be available, all the more so now that the british contribution will be missing because of brexit.
madam president, there will be no more europe with fewer resources. there will be no more social cohesion or territorial spine if we cut the cohesion funds, if we cut the common agricultural policy or the fisheries funds, which are so important for regions like my own, galicia. new challenges such as climate change, innovation or depopulation cannot be met with dwindling resources. and we will not overcome the inequality, the gap that has opened up with the crisis and which has led to many places in the european union diverging rather than converging, if we are not able to increase the budget. there are ways of increasing the budget: there is the financial transaction tax, there is the eco-tax, there are the profits of the european central bank - as has just been shown. more resources to meet the great objective of building a more europe, a more social, more cohesive and more spatially integrated europe. that is the great challenge we have to face with the new financial perspectives.
madam president, commissioner, at the heart of this debate is the europe we have and the europe we want. it is therefore important to clarify that the so-called net contributors have benefited the most. those who contribute must know that their taxes favour the concentration of wealth. european funds have not brought about the development of the countries on their economic periphery, but have dismantled their productive fabric in the name of modernisation. this has happened in galicia, with agriculture, fisheries or the shipping industry, for example. the funds have ensured market occupation in the peripheral countries, while ensuring that infrastructure investment is in the interests of european capital and its elites. now that they've achieved their goals, they say we're developed. what irony! when our youth emigrate again to live. of course, now they need the funds to try to do the same in other countries. commissioner, there has been no solidarity so far. we must change the priorities of the funds.
mr president, after having had an intense debate on the financial perspective, we now turn to the general guidelines for the 2019 budget, and i would like to add my congratulations to the rapporteur, mr daniele viotti, on the excellent work he has done with the alternative rapporteurs. these guidelines continue to highlight the main challenges for the coming year. because, even though we have emerged from the economic crisis in macroeconomic terms, it is true that inequalities are only growing, and we have to put the budget on the side of the most disadvantaged. and we must see in this budget the agreement on the social pillar that was signed in gothenburg so that this does not remain, once again, a pretty declaration of intent. and youth unemployment must also remain a priority. it is still very high in many of our regions and it is certainly intolerable that my country is not able to use these funds to end youth unemployment. and i take this opportunity - other speakers have already done so - to reiterate that parliament's intention in negotiating the 2018 budgets was to increase the money available for the youth guarantee. and i would ask the commissioner to clarify the commission's position. and i conclude: we also have to continue to invest in our planet. because our commitments to combat climate change, to the energy transition and, in short, to a model of sustainable development must be reflected in this budget. a final word: the priorities of parliament and the council are often the same, but then, when it comes to putting resources, parliament always puts money in and the council always wants to cut it.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, i feel that we are experiencing a déjà vu in this house. we had the aleppo case. all mobilized because the terrorists were being defeated. even a former nato secretary general, a suspected war criminal in yugoslavia, tweeted: "what a tragedy if aleppo falls!" but aleppo did not fall. he was released. free from terror, from religious persecution, from an islamofascist caliphate. were any of them in aleppo? i know i do. i saw their population return. i saw their churches open again. i saw aleppo being reborn. today it is claimed by the rebels of eastern ghouta. you are rebels! neither yaish al-islam nor failaq al-rahman nor of course the renowned al-qaeda are rebels. they are terrorists who use chemical weapons; who used 500 women as human shields in cages in 2015; who dispersed civilian demonstrations with guns in 2007; who bomb damascus with mortars; who use the population as hostages and who block humanitarian corridors. this terrible war in which the terrorist card has been used for regime change must end, but not with forced indignation, not with sanctions, not with the repetition of the stupid mistake. with a negotiated and realistic exit that leads to talks with all non-terrorist parties. two days ago we were commemorating the 14th anniversary of march 11. you know what? one hundred and ninety-three people in my country killed by al-qaeda. it is an insult that some in this parliament are doing the dirty work of terrorists who kill syrians, but also europeans.
mr president, i think the high representative has made it very clear what we can do. i am a little tired of the repetition that the european union is doing nothing. i think so; the problem is that i do not know whether the european union has the solution. i think, mrs mogherini, that you have made a great effort - and we all know this - to get a unanimous position in the security council on behalf of the member states, which is not always easy, and in this case, even less so. and i think it's a great idea to promote a meeting in brussels that can jump-start the geneva process. i believe that the european union, in the space that the european union has and that mrs mogherini represents, is doing everything possible. that doesn't mean that syria is the biggest failure of the international community in recent years. it's probably the bloodiest, most serious case of all. because all attempts at negotiation have failed and because all the rules of international law, international humanitarian law and basic humanity have been blown up. because so many civilians are dying, so many children and girls. what's our role? our role is precisely to make it possible to have a political negotiation to stop this hell. and there are those responsible who will be judged in due course. i think that perhaps we could put a little more pressure on turkey. turkey is playing an intolerable double game, and i think the european union must be clear on that.
mr president, we have been talking for seven years, seven years adopting un resolutions, such as 2401, which nobody respects. all the efforts of the international community have failed, and while in january and february alone a thousand children were killed or injured, nothing happens, nothing changes. 25% of the 400,000 dead are children. we must work from europe to ensure that those who are violating the rights of children in syria are brought to justice for crimes against humanity. they have to stop attacking hospitals and schools. we have to insist on the humanitarian corridors in east ghouta and afrin, because children are trapped. we in europe can do much more to make visible the suffering of children and to demand that the syrian regime, russia, iran, turkey and those who do not respect the resolutions stop this bloodbath of innocent children and civilians.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, the path of dialogue and cooperation, as we just discussed, is not always the easiest, but it is always a path worth taking. as europeans we have always believed and invested in dialogue. i would say even more so when we have differences and difficulties. last summer this parliament voted to open a new phase in our relationship with cuba. we decided, all the european institutions together, to continue to build, or to undertake to build, new channels for a deeper and stronger dialogue with cuba. because we believe this is the best possible way, not only to build a more peaceful and cooperative international environment, but also to improve the daily lives of our people, both in europe and, crucially, inside cuba. it is quite clear that we do not see eye-to-eye on all issues, we do have several disagreements with the cuban government. but only through dialogue and engagement can we address our differences, explore avenues of cooperation in different sectors and accompany cuba in its modernisation, in particular in these times of change, with the end of president castro’s mandate coming up. today, we are here to discuss the preparations for the first joint council between the european union and cuba and the way ahead. but let me start with a quick mention of what has happened since we signed our political dialogue and cooperation agreement. our cooperation has started to make a positive difference for the people, and this is, i believe, what counts the most. i have seen it during my visit to cuba at the beginning of this year. i have visited the centre for cuban youth that we have opened in old havana, together with unicef, that is providing young cubans with the skills they need to live better lives and the space to meet and work on common projects in many different fields. i have also seen the new centre for eu-cuba cultural relations in the historic palacio del segundo cabo. international cultural relations for the people of cuba are an opportunity to meet the world and to look beyond their island, as well as to strengthen their own cultural tradition. and finally, while there, i heard the stories of 180 000 men, women and children who were hit by hurricane irma. we, the european union, intervened immediately with our humanitarian aid in their support, and we are also helping them restart their farms and rebuild their homes in a more sustainable way so that the next hurricane will be less devastating than the last one. these are three examples of concrete projects that have already improved the life of the cuban people thanks to our cooperation. for me, this is the sign of how promising this new season in our relations can be. the first joint council meeting which we plan to hold in mid-may will be the opportunity to consolidate and expand this work. together with the foreign minister bruno rodríguez, we expect to launch a number of sectoral dialogues in new areas of cooperation. let me mention just three of them. first, renewable energy, which is key for both of us. second, sustainable agriculture, especially for the areas hardest hit by the hurricane. third, culture. i mentioned that already. let me stress in particular as we mark the year of european culture and in the year when the city of havana celebrates its 500th anniversary. this is a field where i see enormous potential for our relations to be increased and deepened. of course the joint council will also be an opportunity to discuss other issues, for instance the us embargo and its extraterritorial effects. as you know, the european position is very clear. we have already expressed it several times, we believe the embargo does not achieve the goal of improving the lives of the cuban people. on the contrary, it is only damaging the cuban people and the cuban economy. as we prepare for the joint council, we are also working to formalise our annual human rights dialogue. as you know, such dialogue already started informally in 2015. since then, it has allowed us to exchange on human rights issues directly, in a very open, frank, constructive manner with the cuban authorities. and let me say if we care about human rights in cuba – and we in this room all care – if we care about widening the space for civil society, this is the best path to follow, to the benefit of the cuban people. our political dialogue and cooperation agreement is the tool we need to better accompany and support a process of economic and social reform. it is the best tool we have to work for sustainable development, social justice, democracy and human rights. we do have disagreements as i said, and i am sure our cuban friends would say the same. but there is also a lot that unites the european people and the cuban people. we both believe in international cooperation and dialogue as the best way to address international disputes. we believe that a multilateral global order is possible and it would help us build a more sustainable development world-wide. and i won’t mention here all the cultural, historic links, the social links that are there between our people. so let us continue to engage, aware of the differences, ready to address them, in a spirit of dialogue, respect and frankness, aware also of the opportunities for our common work in different sectors of cooperation, and continuing to work on our side in unity.the european parliament, together with all other european institutions, continues to invest in dialogue respectfully, without hiding the differences and the difficulties, but also while taking all the opportunities that this dialogue can bring about.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mrs mogherini, it seems that, despite the fact that relations between the institutions are progressing normally, cuba is not fulfilling its commitments. it is true, madam vice-president, that dialogue is the best way of dealing with disagreements, but i think there is no political will. the cuban regime continues to use arbitrary detentions, dismissals of officials and harassment to silence criticism. those aren't my words. this is the opening sentence of the report on cuba published by amnesty international a few weeks ago. at a time when the country is facing a supposed generational change, the reality is that they have elected 605 members of the national assembly from among 605 members previously appointed by the regime. despite cuba's supposed openness to the world, the island maintains internet censorship, as well as undue restrictions on access to information and freedom of expression. last year alone, the cuban commission for human rights and national reconciliation recorded at least 5,155 arrests of opponents. meanwhile, eduardo cardet, a member of the christian liberation movement, has been in prison since 2016. we believe, mrs mogherini, that alongside diplomatic means, you should at least demand that the regime comply with the agreements. many of us believe that the end of castroism opens up an opportunity for the new generations of the cuban people. and this despite the fact that there are signs that nothing is being changed. the european union cannot look the other way. realpolitik has limits, and not everything should be red carpet. let us continue to hope that all dictatorships will come to an end. the european union can not only contribute, but must also participate actively, with diplomacy, yes, but not by endorsing new totalitarian forms.
i am therefore very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to present this report to the house. that approval was difficult. a few months later, at the beginning of the year, the high representative travelled to cuba. i think it was an important trip and one which demonstrated the european union's willingness to establish a constructive dialogue with havana. of course, things are not going to change in such a short time, that's obvious. but our impulse from the beginning has been to try to build a relationship which fundamentally aims to improve the lives of cubans and also of europeans, because it is a relationship which has to be symmetrical. there is certainly still a political blockade in cuba which will have to be resolved, probably in the coming months. and then, when the changeover in cuba has been resolved and the joint council meeting has been held in may, then i think it will be time to tell mrs mogherini to come to this house and explain how far we have come. i have not understood very well the obsession of some groups to have the debate today, when that council has not yet met, that is to say, when the mechanism has not yet been put into operation. today we can only congratulate mrs mogherini on her visit to cuba, because it makes a fundamental difference in our relations with that island and with latin america as a whole, because we all know the strategic importance of that island, however small it may be. so i would ask mrs mogherini to come to this house - which she always comes to when she is called - to explain to us the progress that has been made, when we have actually been able to measure and build on the work we have decided to do. we will continue to demand from the cuban authorities democracy, freedom, development and balance in the country, because that is the role we have as members of this parliament. i am very grateful to mrs mogherini, once again, for her efforts.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mrs mogherini, on your first visit after the signing of the first eu-cuba agreement, you did not find time to meet with the opposition, the sakharov prize winners or any representative of civil society, which has been suffering for years from the consequences of the dictatorial regime on the island. we have talked about the benefits of this agreement to increase trade, investment by the european union, but what about the human rights situation? where is that modernization you spoke of in your first statements? cuba remains a politically closed society, where political parties and independent civil society organizations cannot legally function. the annual reports on human rights by international associations such as human rights watch and amnesty international warn us that the situation has not improved. the latest victims of this government's practices have been, for example, mrs dulce amanda durán, who was threatened with prison if she did not resign from her job with the cuban commission for human rights and national reconciliation; mr josé díaz silva, leader of the movement opposition for a new republic; and father jonniel rodríguez riverol, who has also suffered physical violence at the hands of the regime's forces. the cuban commission warns us that in february the number of arbitrary arrests has increased to 347, which means more than twelve per day. since the start of the eu-cuba dialogue, there has been no progress on the human rights situation and i am not clear about the expectations of the human rights dialogue that is currently under way. what i do know is that we cannot claim that the european union is closer to cuba and the cuban people if we turn our backs on that part of society that we ignore and that political dialogue agreement becomes an agreement with purely economic objectives.
on behalf of the green group, i should also like to begin by saying that i do not know exactly why this debate is urgent, given that the joint council, which is due to meet in may, has not yet met. i agree with the socialist colleague that we should have waited until that meeting to make an assessment and then have a debate with the high representative. unless there are some groups in this house more concerned with torpedoing the agreement, in the vein of the trump administration, than with actually looking to the future and trying to make this agreement a genuine success, which is what we all want. it is simply for me to congratulate mrs mogherini on her work in this debate. i believe that the new relationship that is being established with cuba is a success of european diplomacy, one of the great successes of this mandate. i congratulate you on your visit and i would also like to say that i am very pleased with the questions which have been put to the next council. he mentioned the field of renewable energy, sustainable agriculture and culture. i think there are three areas in which we can make progress. and above all, i want to ask you to insist on moving this agreement forward and on cooperation going as far as possible, because we all know, of course, that we have the trump administration, which wants to torpedo this agreement, and it is very important that the european union... (the president withdraws the speaker)
the question of the 'blue card'. i would like to ask you what human rights you are talking about, because i would like you to tell me whether you know that there are political prisoners in the spanish state and whether you know that in the spanish state the right to housing and the right to health are seriously questioned.
mr president, i do not know whether the intention of bringing this debate here today was to question the work of mrs mogherini and the agreement that the european union signed with cuba, but if so, i really have to say, on behalf of our group, that we want to congratulate the high representative on her work and we want to congratulate ourselves on the agreement that we made with cuba. i think this is an important agreement. the question is not whether or not there are human rights in cuba, but how we defend human rights in cuba, how we ensure freedom, and this agreement is precisely going in that direction. ladies and gentlemen, the united states has just withdrawn, mr castro is leaving next month and the european union has an agreement with cuba. and in that context, what that agreement does is open up relations. europe is a friend of cuba and that friend of cuba is going to open up precisely its democracy and it is going to open up its technologies; it is going to open up its economies and its companies. the idea is precisely that this agreement should encourage the development of these ideas and these rights, not harm them. because those who question this agreement, what do they want? back to the blockade? do those who are defending freedoms and human rights in cuba believe that by blocking cuba or turning our backs on cuba, we will secure those rights? is it not, on the contrary, what we are doing in europe and what mrs mogherini is doing that is favouring the development of freedoms and rights for the cuban people?
mr president, we welcome the progress of the political dialogue and cooperation agreement signed between the european union and cuba, because this agreement definitively buries the infamous common position of those who do not want normal relations but surrender. this agreement is a good example of the good development of international relations, when they are approached from the respect for sovereignty, dialogue between equals and the umbrella of the united nations charter. it is also a demonstration of what can be achieved by a european union which does not follow the unilateralism of the united states and which is committed to an independent foreign policy. we hope that the first meeting of the joint council in may will take this approach further, and we hope that this model of international relations will replace the disrespectful, interventionist approach to other countries in the region, such as venezuela.
mr president, the political dialogue and cooperation agreement with cuba put an end to an exceptional situation: the absence of such an agreement with the island. the next meeting of the joint council, mrs mogherini, comes at a very special moment, just when the veteran leaders of the revolution are being relieved. in my view, the changes in the top ranks should go further: they should lead to, and promote, political and economic changes in cuba, changes which bring it closer to the principles and standards which europeans consider universal and which, in any case, are already the majority in latin america - i am referring to multiparty democracy, respect for fundamental rights, the rule of law, the open economy and also the social state. this dialogue in the joint council must promote the interests of the union and its citizens and also those of the cuban people, without abdicating our principles and values. that is why human rights must be on his agenda - and it is enough to mention one figure, already mentioned by mr luis de grandes: eduardo cardet, an opposition leader who is still in detention after 15 months. cuban citizens are very close to europeans. i remember the large number of people of spanish origin and my galician homeland who live in cuba. it is only logical that i should want for them what i want for us, namely the framework of freedoms and well-being which we europeans in general enjoy. this is the parliament of the sakharov prize for freedom of expression, which has so often been awarded to cuban citizens - three times, if i remember correctly. i hope that this information, mrs mogherini, will serve as a guide and inspiration for your next dialogue with the cuban authorities.
mr president, 'let us be realistic and do the impossible', said che guevara. the political dialogue and cooperation agreement, madam vice-president of the commission and high representative, is a historic moment because it opens a new chapter in relations of reciprocity and we congratulate you for that. finally, the european commission is no longer following a dark position, as was promoted by president aznar the one in the photo of the azores trio, because cuba does not need protections, but a new cycle that is beginning. the lifting of the blockade is one example. europe must not be the international mouthpiece of any blockade. and, furthermore, cuba is no longer the only country in latin america and the caribbean that does not have a bilateral relationship with the european union.
mr president, this agreement must of course serve to consolidate stable relations between cuba and the european union in the framework of international law and the united nations charter, in the framework of legality, respect for the sovereignty of states, and in the framework of the values and principles embodied in the union's foreign policy. my group hopes that the steps towards the normalisation of political and commercial relations will continue, that cuba will be respected as an international political subject, that its own identity will be respected, and that its economic and social model will be respected as an alternative to capitalism. finally, i would ask you, mrs mogherini, to keep in mind the words you said during your recent visit to havana, because the european union, in its foreign policy, must build bridges and open doors through cooperation and dialogue: that is the only way and the only diplomacy. you got it.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, many of you referred to cuban civil society, and i agree that it has a critical role to play and to fulfil in cooperation with our delegation. indeed it is not true and it has never been true that we do not have bilateral relations between the european union and cuba. there is a cuban ambassador in brussels who is accredited to the european union, and our delegation is active in havana and all over the island, not only for diplomatic exchanges, but also for running the various projects, including the humanitarian and development projects that we run on the island. we definitely have a strong and active diplomatic channel and presence, both of havana in brussels and of the european union in havana. through our delegation in havana, the role of civil society is constantly being encouraged. meetings and regular exchanges take place. i myself, during a recent visit and previous visits, have always managed to meet members of civil society, although my visits were always extremely short. as many of you have said, that it is clear that our ideas, principles and practices in terms of human rights and democracy are different. this is no mystery. isolation has never proven to be a way to encourage positive development. what can encourage positive development and channel our approach, our principles and our expectations is a strong, open, frank and constructive dialogue based not only on respect, but also on very clear messages that we never hide. it is more communication and more cooperation that will bring about positive developments, including in the area of fundamental freedoms. it is no mystery that cuba, the member states and the european union as a whole have different political systems; this is obvious to all of us. the role of civil society and the issue of human rights and fundamental freedoms are part of our dialogue and our common work. one key element of the agreement we have is also the formalisation of the human rights dialogue. this is also one of the reasons why this parliament approved and backed the agreement we negotiated. as i said, isolation has failed over decades to bring any positive developments, either in the island, or in our relations, including as regards relations between the european union and the region. some of you referred to the fact that cuba also has a regional role in the caribbean and in latin america. having this channel of dialogue open can be useful and helpful. isolation, on the contrary, has traditionally strengthened conservative forces. this is why we all consider it important that this agreement has entered into force and why this parliament gave its consent last year to adopt this historical agreement, which the member states by unanimity adopted it. this is the expectation with which we enter into this process. some of you rightly mentioned: now we have the agreement and the institutional backing on the european side to this agreement, we know all the opportunities and challenges are still in front of us. we simply have the instruments to enter into a different phase. the point is now to implement this agreement using this instrument, and i count on this parliament to accompany this process as we proceed with the implementation of the agreement in all its different sectors, which also means holding the first joint council in may. when i was in havana in january, we also discussed opening different sectoral dialogues, exploring the different opportunities that open up, as well as addressing the difficulties we might have, including the formulation of the human rights dialogue. i would expect that this parliament will accompany us in this implementation phase, keeping clear our perspectives, our differences and our points of convergence. let me finish by supporting very much what david mcallister, chair of the committee on foreign affairs (afet), mentioned about the opportunity to have an afet delegation visiting cuba. i raised this personally with the cuban authorities during my visit in january, including with the president of the national assembly of the parliament there, who welcomed this idea. obviously, i will continue to encourage a move in this direction, because i believe that contacts need to be deepened in respect of the differences and in openness of the differences at all levels – institutions, civil society, human rights activists and the parliament have an important role to play here. i thank you for this debate and i thank you most of all for the work you will continue to do to accompany me in the implementation of this agreement.
the debate is closed.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the new agenda for eu-central asia relations at the 13th annual ministerial meeting (2018/2526 (rsp)).
mr president, since the collapse of the soviet union, the central asian region has been consolidating itself as a sort of emerging subcontinent. its geographical location, its vast natural and economic resources and the challenges it faces make it an area of particular interest to the european union. and i welcome the interest - as you have told us, mrs mogherini - that exists in the region for the european union, and that work is being done for the renewal in 2019 of the european union strategy for central asia. we must continue to support these countries in their reforms towards political and economic modernisation. they are countries in transition, so to speak. some of the challenges have already been mentioned: improvement in terms of democratic governance, security and the rise of jihadism, illicit trafficking, natural resources (both energy and water) and their management. we can help in all of this and we must continue to promote their regional integration and strengthen our presence and visibility there. the european union must continue to position itself as a global player, particularly in those regions close to 'our neighbours' neighbours', where what happens has a direct impact on our daily lives. we see this in the case of the sahel, the middle east, and we also see it in the case of central asia.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, very briefly because i’ve seen that there’s large convergence among you, amongst us, on the need to continue to invest strategically in our relations with central asia – as a region to increase their regional cooperation, but also with each individual country of the five. i am determined to continue to do so. i have seen, as i said in the beginning, clearly a trend in these last three years in all our ministerial meetings, in all the bilateral meetings i’ve had with them – presidents and foreign ministers – that the intention from their side is to do more with us in all fields. i will only say that i count on your support to continue doing this. i commit to doing this more and more in all the different fields from the economic to human rights and rule of law, to security and to regional developments, including the security issue, the geo-political dynamics, the crossroads between east and west and north and south, and obviously also on sustainable development and own resources, including water. there is one question i would like to answer: what can we offer? what i have seen, what they expect us to offer, is the european way, is the standards, is the quality. they know i believe that this comes in a package. it’s european standards on human rights and rule of law. it’s european standards on economic investments and business climate and rules of the game for the economic environment. it’s european standards and the european way on the way in which institutions work. it’s the european way in which society develops. the feeling i have is that they would like to take the european union as a model for their societies, for their economies, for their regional relations, for their security models. they know it’s a long way, but this is the direction i feel they intend to follow, without necessarily being trapped into the geo—political spheres of influence competition, but being able to move towards that kind of european way that we could offer. it is somehow a declination of the soft power we have, but it’s also very concrete. it’s true that from other places money could come more easily, but i think countries around the world, and in central asia included, are starting to realise that it is not necessarily the money that comes easily which is the best investment long term. i think this is the thing we can offer, which is sometimes complicated but always worthwhile trying.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the next item on the agenda is the joint debate on:- report by mr hugues bayet, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the european semester for economic policy coordination: annual growth survey for 2018 (2017/2226(ini)) (a8-0047/2018), and- report by mr krzysztof hetman, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the european semester for economic policy coordination: social and employment aspects of the annual growth survey for 2018 (2017/2260(ini)) (a8-0052/2018).
on behalf of the s&d group. the analysis of the european semester from the point of view of employment and social affairs gives us every year in this parliament a golden opportunity to make a shared diagnosis, but above all to give concrete answers to the situations facing europeans in this field. we must remember inequality, poverty, precarious employment or unemployment. that is why, in this situation, today more than ever, more than a shared diagnosis, concrete responses are needed. why would you do that? because we are beginning to see the end of the european mandate, of this legislature, because growth is coming along so that today we can put answers on the table very clearly, and because every time we open the ballot box we find the anger and the disenchantment of the voters who are screaming at us for answers. in this regard, in the group of the european socialists and democrats we have been very clear in proposing fiscal flexibility to encourage social investment, in proposing a minimum income framework as a tool to fight poverty, and in proposing to have mechanisms to address the gender pay gap in the workplace and also to promote dialogue and collective bargaining. these are clear proposals which must go hand in hand with not taking a step back from the commitments which this parliament already has in the field of the european pillar of social rights or fiscal flexibility. because we want this parliament to be ambitious and to follow the commission's proposals. we must remember the new proposals, such as the european labour authority, or a framework of minimum conditions at european level. these analyses and messages must be accompanied by the proposals and answers that europeans already need to solve their problems.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, although we are told about a supposed recovery of the economy, the real question is who is benefiting from this recovery of the economy. the usual? the multinationals? the billionaires? because the reality that you live outside these carpets, on the street, is one of permanent crisis. the rights lost during the financial crisis have not been recovered, job insecurity continues to increase and pensions are in danger. the rapid increase in inequality is the real challenge facing europe. this inequality is the result of the current economic architecture of the european union, the stability and growth pact, the european semester or new institutions such as the european monetary fund, which are part of the problem and not the solution. and those are the elements that separate us from this report. because this is not something that can be fixed by a little reform of the governance mechanisms. ladies and gentlemen, to put an end to the profound inequalities that plague europe, we need urgent reforms that will allow a change in the production model, which is socially and ecologically sustainable and capable of creating quality jobs for everyone in all the member states. a plan which cannot be realised within the narrow framework of the stability and growth pact or in projects such as the juncker plan. we regret that we cannot support the report, although we agree with many of the points it makes.
mr president, commissioner, you have made the european semester a good element for analysis, but you are unable to solve the problems you denounce through the semester. they denounce the high precariousness of employment, but they refuse to put on the table a fair conditions directive that would end it throughout the european union. they denounce low wages as a risk to economic growth and also to social cohesion, but they refuse to implement a policy of wage coordination or to establish a european minimum wage framework that would put an end to low wages. they denounce the high risk of social exclusion, but they refuse to put forward a minimum income directive or to finance national income policies which would eliminate the risk of poverty in the world's second largest economy. they have to step up and they have to stop being good analysts and become good politicians, good politicians who solve people's problems. that is why the european semester was set up, not just to analyse reality, but to put an end to the inequalities we denounce through this political instrument.
mr president, as our colleague thomas mann has said, the latest employment figures confirm the upward trend and the success of european policies in recent years and the need to continue them, with an increasing focus on social aspects. i would therefore like to focus my speech on the almost 120 million people who are still at risk of poverty or social exclusion, especially children. the creation of jobs, which is occurring mainly among the most highly qualified adults, contrasts with the difficulty of incorporation of the least qualified. the implementation of the new skills agenda for europe should therefore be a priority. however, to reduce poverty, we need long-term policies that contribute to the effective and sustainable integration of the most disadvantaged, policies that must have the active collaboration of specialised ngos and the organizations of people living in poverty themselves. we need to combine active employment policies with social policies to ensure equal opportunities in all areas, to guarantee non-discrimination, especially in relation to access to and promotion in the labour market.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. i would like to thank the interpreters for their professionalism and dedication and for safeguarding the collective interests of this house once again. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
mr. president, president trump's measures on aluminum and steel imports are unfair, unnecessary, and put transatlantic trade relations at risk. they can't be justified in defense of national security. it is a disloyalty which implies not considering the european union as an ally of the united states. the union is also suffering the consequences of the world overcapacity in aluminium and steel, caused by excess production from countries which do not operate under the rules of a market economy. it is therefore more necessary than ever to defend the regulation of globalisation and rules-based trade: we must prevent the rule of the strongest from prevailing, which seeks to impose protectionist and populist measures to the detriment of all. the union is right to give a strong but balanced response, acting with intelligence, with a single voice and in coordination and cooperation with our partners in the wto. it is everyone's responsibility to avoid a trade war that would only lead to less growth and job losses. so we should all ask trump to reconsider.
mr president, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, history teaches us that trade wars are not good even for those who propose them, even if it is said, on the surface, that they are easy to win. commissioner malmström reminded us that we know how they start but we don't know how they end. the commission has reacted with restraint, preparing a catalogue of countermeasures in defence of the interests of our citizens and our companies and in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation. today it is incredible to have to remember that trade is progress, that trade is peace, and that the walls, the walls, the barriers, unilateralism are today in the paleolithic period of history and are playing a clearly losing card. in these difficult circumstances, we must support the commission and its negotiating strategy of preferential agreements, and we must bet and double down on free trade and on a system of fair, predictable and stable rules which encourages and promotes world trade and trade.
mr president, the measures taken by trump pose an economic threat to the whole world and a democratic setback. the national security justification for them is to the detriment of a historic ally. that is why these measures are unacceptable and outdated. schuman already showed in 1950 that security and stability are enhanced by going the exact opposite way. the american industry should do its part by reminding its president of what happened with similar measures taken by bush in 2002, which ended in disaster for the united states. i therefore support the proposals put forward by commissioner malmström, i encourage them to be implemented with all the relevant actors in the industrial field, and i inform you that the basque government has put itself at the full disposal of the community authorities to collaborate in the design of a shared strategy. the basque country is an industrial region strongly impacted by this announcement. it has already been involved in the design of the measures to deal with the previous crisis 'generated by chinese overcapacity' and has just communicated to the european authorities its confidence and its offer of collaboration to avoid a trade war that is in no one's interest.
mr. president, a little over a year ago we were discussing a free trade agreement with obama. today we are facing a looming trade war with trump of unforeseeable consequences. how times change! europe has not started it, but europe must try to defend itself and must try to avoid it. companies and thousands of workers, many of them from my region, galicia, are worried about the future of their jobs in an industry already shaken by chinese overcapacity and dumping. if the united states wants to deal with the problem, it is there that it must turn its eyes, not to its european partner. we must be cautious, but we must also be firm. companies and workers need to be assured that europe will use all the diplomatic arsenal and all the means at its disposal to ensure the future of this industry.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mr costa, portugal is today a beacon of hope for those of us who dream of another europe, of a truly social europe, and the achievements of the portuguese progressive forces are there for anyone to see. portugal, having reversed some of the measures imposed by the troika, is not only growing at a good rate, but is also doing so by reducing unemployment and inequality. portugal is the tangible proof that austerity policies aggravated the economic crisis of 2008, instead of alleviating it. we in spain look with envy at the pact signed in portugal between the socialist party and the progressive forces, and we wonder why the socialists in spain have chosen other paths, letting the popular party govern instead of coming to terms with the forces of change. however, mr costa, we do not lose hope and we hope that sooner rather than later the obstacles which prevent us from following your path will be removed. the economic recovery of southern europe needs a different european union - as i said - that lives up to its responsibilities, more concerned with the well-being of its people and less about the profits of the big financial institutions. when we were witnessing the process of european integration, europe was synonymous with well-being and prosperity. today, after the implementation of austerity policies and social cuts, that perception has changed a lot. three major reforms can be the pillars for building a union which puts the equality and security of our peoples at the centre of its activities: a financial transaction tax, the restructuring of the debt of the countries of the south and the transformation of the european central bank into an institution at the service of the real economy. he is convinced that a spanish peninsula governed by progressive forces would be a formidable ally in promoting the democratic transformation that the european union needs. in these times of xenophobia and scepticism, we must rekindle hope for a future that leaves no one behind.
mr president, mr prime minister, for many years we were told that there was no alternative in europe, that the policies of austerity, the policies of cuts and the policies of suffering which have affected the most needy were the only possibility. your government has shown that another europe is possible. a policy of balancing public accounts has been adopted, making social growth possible too: raising pensions, raising the minimum wage, and a social policy aimed at those who need it most. that is the europe we want to build. and yes, mrs gonzalez, i will answer: i too would like to see a government of progress in spain. and if there is no left government in spain today, it is because his political party, podemos, preferred to win the psoe in an election instead of dislodging the popular party from government. european social democracy will continue to work because another europe is possible and because we need to give hope to so many citizens who are waiting for us to act.
as a galician, i am thrilled to be speaking our language in the european parliament. first of all, i would like to congratulate the political forces which have paved the way for the portuguese government. a way of coping and responding to austerity and social problems. secondly, i would like to draw your attention to a very serious european problem which is common to our peoples: the tragedy of the fires in portugal, galicia and other european countries. we'll never forget pictures like this. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. climate change and the lack of prevention warrants a policy response that must be coordinated across europe to address recurring and emerging capacity gaps, because fires have no borders. portugal has requested the activation of the european union civil protection mechanism. spain doesn't. what is your view of the need to strengthen the european civil protection mechanism so that it is more flexible, timely and with more financial and human resources and to coordinate the fight against fires with agricultural, environmental and transport policy? i also want to remind you of transport policy.
mr president, mr costa, you have become a new hope for europe by demonstrating that, in the face of 'austerity', it was possible to grow and correct the inequalities that so much euroscepticism has generated and, with it, an increase in populism throughout europe. but i am going to ask you today about something else. you said - and i agree - that we have a great challenge, which is the fight against climate change: to promote an energy transition based on renewable energies. your country has been an example: it was a country which, in one month last may, was able to survive for four days on wind, solar and marine energy. but i ask you, mr costa, to join the council with the countries which want more ambition in renewable energy to bring the european union's renewable energy objectives into line with the paris objectives. we must not forget that the european parliament has a duty to protect the citizens of europe.
mr president, i just wanted to clarify the vote we are going to take on the objection concerning the list of projects of common interest. i would like to clarify the effect of this vote: if the objection is accepted - which i encourage this house to do - it will not mean that all the projects on the list will be dropped, including those which you consider to be positive, but that the european commission will have to present us with a new version of the list with fewer gas projects and therefore also more electricity projects, which is what the signatories have asked for in this objection.
mr president, today we are approaching a qualitative change in the way european budgets are drawn up and implemented. at the same time, we are at a tipping point: the european citizen is watching us with the hope that these changes will put people at the centre of policies, now that a supposed recovery is being proclaimed by decree. this hope would only be fulfilled if the new multiannual financial framework took on board and made its own the principles of the social pillar, for example by budgeting for a minimum income or budgeting for gender and equality policies, instead of increasing the defense and security items. this would be possible if the union had a robust, progressive and fair system of collection and redistribution. this would also be a credible and acceptable framework if greater means of political and citizen control were adopted, control exercised in a transparent manner. all this, unfortunately, has not been reflected in the proposal, despite the partial measures and the good intentions. that is why i voted against it.
madam president, the recent murders of the slovakian journalist and his partner are terrible, but unfortunately this is not something new. across the world we find too many cases to deplore and condemn, among others the murder of anna politkovskaya in russia and the hundreds of journalists and crucial rights defenders murdered in mexico. they were killed because they were investigating and denouncing corruption and the abuse of power. what can we do? of course we should attack the causes of these tragedies. this means that we cannot leave those who fight for justice and freedom all alone. corruption is destroying the kernel of our systems. corruption is not just a private matter. that’s why we have to push governments and political and social bodies to fight, for themselves, against their internal, structural corruption. european insistence and monitoring in this direction is the best contribution you can make. if we do not fight corruption systematically, we are leaving critical citizens alone and unprotected.
madam president, on 26 february last year, the slovak journalist ján kuciak and his partner, martina kušnírová, were murdered. jan was investigating alleged connections between slovak politicians and the calabrian mafia. this murder, this act of cowardice, is an attack on one of the fundamental pillars of democratic europe: freedom of expression and investigative journalism. my deepest and strongest condemnation. unfortunately, this is not the first case and unfortunately it may not be the last attack on journalists in a member state of the union. it is necessary to remember and keep in mind daphne caruana galizia, who paid with her life for denouncing and investigating the constant violations of the rule of law in malta. neither slovakia nor malta deserve what is happening, and it is the duty of this parliament to demand that all member states comply with article 11 of the charter of fundamental rights, which guarantees freedom of information. i welcome and value very positively the mission we sent to slovakia a week ago. i hope that the meetings with the various actors and institutions will help to shed some light on this attack. it is essential, commissioner, that europol should be much more involved in the field investigations to clarify these murders. europol plays a decisive role under its own rules.
madam president, no democracy can survive without a free press, the commissioner said. we want to regret the drama of this murder by investigating the truth. the commissioner also stressed that the european union should be able to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to combat the spread of the disease, and that the european union should be able to take action to combat the spread of the virus and the spread of the disease. i am fully in favour of those people who are being punished for exercising their right to freedom of the press and freedom of expression. tell that to the journalist ana pardo de vera; to the vice president of the council of informatives of spanish television, xabier fortes; to nacho carretero for the seizure of the book fariña on drug trafficking; to pablo hasél; to césar strawberry; to the tweeter cassandra; to the artist whose work was withdrawn from arco. tell that to so many people repressed by the gag law.
madam president, commissioner, we agree that the murder of a journalist and his partner in slovakia is a criminal attack on freedom of expression, which is the freedom to say what someone does not want to hear, and on freedom of communication, which is the freedom to publish what someone does not want to be known. especially when it comes to investigative journalists committed to fighting fraud, tax evasion and corruption, which requires journalists free of threats and also lawyers and lawyers free of threats. but it is also a mafia attack, which tells us about a trans-european, pan-european mafia crime, which requires a european community - yes - of judicial, information and intelligence cooperation against crossborder crime. and what we see is that the principle of mutual trust and mutual recognition, which makes judicial cooperation against crossborder mafia crime possible, is being pushed back and deteriorating. and that is why i say quite clearly that, in the face of the pan-european mafia, we need a pan-european response which protects against organised crime the values which are essential and fundamental to the construction of europe.
madam president, it is often said that tax dumping in the european union is based on the nominal rate of corporation tax, which is indeed a problem, and we must therefore move towards harmonising that nominal rate. but the problem of dumping is not so much discussed in the calculation of the taxable amount, which also functions as a central element of fiscal dumping in the european union. and that is why this proposal from the biccis to harmonize and consolidate corporate tax is so important: that there are common rules on the calculation of this tax base, a tax that affects all the activities of multinationals throughout the european union, and also that the issue of digital companies and how they pay taxes is addressed, because, in the end, what we are talking about with these measures is to recover fiscal sovereignty. the fiscal sovereignty that the member states have at the moment is simply the sovereignty to lower taxes. to restore fiscal sovereignty, to make multinationals pay for once - not as is happening now, as we saw in the recent financial times report - is to harmonize taxation at the level of the european union, and this proposal is very, very important.
madam president, harmonizing the corporate tax base and consolidating the allocation between states is absolutely essential in a single market. anything else is unfair competition. and this is an essential step in the fight against tax evasion and, above all, in the fight for loyalty between the member states of the single market. i think this is essential and i think the commission has done a good job of this, and the rapporteurs who have produced this report have improved it in the european parliament, and i am glad of that. but i must also warn you that unfortunately the council has not been heeding the recommendations put forward by parliament. unfortunately, the council does not listen to us. and since these reports are for consultation, unfortunately the council legislates without taking us into account. and i want to make this complaint because the contributions made in this parliament are very important in improving the initiative which the directive represented at the time.
madam president, commissioner, this proposal is very important in the fight against tax evasion and tax avoidance. the anti-tax avoidance directive does not prevent multinational companies from using financial techniques to avoid paying taxes. our group greens/efa has published the tax shopping study on the galician textile company inditex zara, which avoided paying taxes in spain between 2011 and 2014. i contacted you at the time and you told me on twitter that you were following the reports. this is an example of what we are fighting against today with the proposal we are debating in this parliament.
member of the commission. – madam president, yes the commission is fully aware of the importance of this case, not only in terms of the economic impact on the spanish exporters but also because of its systemic importance, relating to the targeting of the eu common agricultural policy: the ‘green box’ support available to spanish farmers, which you have raised. so we have been actively involved in those investigations from the very beginning, and have provided all the necessary assistance to the spanish government and the exporters concerned. we have made several technical and political interventions to legally rebut the us allegations and politically dissuade the us authorities from taking countervailing measures against eu cap ‘green box’ subsidies. despite all these efforts, as you know, the us authority nevertheless decided to take preliminary countervailing measures. we are very concerned about this decision, because these subsidies are not trade distortive and they do comply with the rules of the world trade organization (wto). we will continue to exert pressure on the usa. i have personally raised the issue with the relevant ministers and secretaries; and some of my colleagues in the commission, notably commissioner hogan, have also raised this personally several times with relevant ministers and secretaries; and we will continue to talk with and assist the spanish government. there are talks on this regularly, including with the spanish companies concerned, with the aim of avoiding the imposition of any unjustified measures by the usa. if this is not successful, we will carefully analyse the factual and legal aspects of the final decision due at the beginning of june, and will weigh all possible options on how to challenge these measures, including through wto action.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the trump administration's attitude towards european exports is unacceptable. among the many similar proceedings opened by the united states, the one against spanish table olives is particularly worrying. if it succeeds, the aid model of the common agricultural policy, which is perfectly in line with the rules of the world trade organisation, as the commissioner has said, would be called into question in a capricious way. i think that the european union should not turn the other cheek but respond to the united states with its own weapons. in andalusia, a community hit hard by the economic crisis, the us action can cause serious damage to many families who live off the olive groves and the processing of olives. the success of this sector has been due to its work and its ability to introduce technological improvements. european aid is not the reason for the increase in the competitiveness of spanish producers. i sincerely believe that the european commission is doing its job well with the spanish government and that it must continue to do so by giving a strong response to these investigations. we have tabled an amendment from the european people's party calling for an investigation into the subsidies given to american products such as almonds and maize, as there are good reasons to believe that these are genuinely trade-distorting aids.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, as other members have said, trump's protectionist measures are an attack on the european cap aid system, and that is what is worrying about this situation. and they're declaring a trade war on our export sectors. investigations have been opened since last june in one case and in july in another against several spanish and andalusian companies, in seville in particular, three companies which are highly competitive in the table olive sector, in particular black table olives. one of them is a cooperative. these are the olives that he criticizes so much and that are apparently affecting so much the californian companies in the marketing of their products. this has already meant that an increase in the average duty of 22% has been imposed on the companies concerned on a provisional basis. the final decision will be made next june. if the result is negative, significant tariffs would be imposed on imports of black table olives from spain for up to 10 years. we can see clearly what the americans are aiming at: to weaken the export capacity of these companies, which already have a strong foothold in the american market, in order to clearly benefit two californian companies. the commission is doing well, it is supporting the sector and the spanish government. i encourage you to keep it that way. finally, ladies and gentlemen, the problem is that the excuse is the aid they receive from the common agricultural policy. today it is olives, tomorrow it may be other products or other sectors. so we cannot allow ourselves to be overwhelmed. we support the commission in its actions and therefore i ask all members and all the groups to support the joint motion for a resolution which we have tabled. it will certainly be good news for this sector.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, trump's trade war against spanish olives is unfair, arbitrary and contrary to the rules of world trade. the aid received by the sector does not distort the market and complies with the so-called 'green box' at international level. at the same time, the future of the sector does not depend on the massive export of large-scale industry, based on monoculture, but on another agricultural model that gives priority to the environment, good working conditions, public health and animal welfare. so in andalusia, in extremadura, in the valencian country, let us diversify our fields, encourage local consumption, organic farming, small farms and food sovereignty. this is the best response to trump: a just transition to a living, sustainable field. i hope that you will support the amendments of the green group in this respect so that we can support this resolution as a whole. to save the olive and its people, no trump, no monoculture.
in november the united states department of commerce issued a resolution proposing to impose tariffs on spanish olives. this measure can have dramatic costs for the sector and thousands of families depend on olive oil. the measure proves that trump governs in the service of lobbies, even if it makes him fall, as in this case, incoherently, because they accuse us of unfair competition for subsidizing our agriculture, when american agriculture is heavily subsidized. in addition, our subsidies are approved by the wto. it is worrying that a precedent can be set against other of our agricultural products, but our response should not be more war. we demand that trump withdraw this unjust and arbitrary measure, which will mainly affect small and medium-sized farmers and workers in the sector. we call on the european commission to step up its efforts to tackle this threat and to focus its response on workers, smes and cooperatives. we also stress the need for the future cap to develop resistance to this kind of external threat, and to do this we must focus on our internal market and overcome the risks posed by the continuing reliance on exports. we must put small and medium-sized farmers and the sustainability of our rural world above the big profits of agribusiness, and favor short cycles and agroecology. the challenge is major. we are playing with the present and the future of our rural world and the hundreds of thousands of jobs.
mr president, commissioner, the situation created by the united states with regard to table olives clearly demonstrates the vulnerability to which farmers in this sector are subjected as a result of an agricultural policy geared to exports. we have had the example of the russian embargo before. the european union and the united states are promoting neoliberal and devastating agricultural policies, with prices at source below production costs, which, while providing cheap raw materials to agribusiness, make farmers totally dependent on aid. i want to denounce the hypocrisy and falsehood behind free trade, because in this battle neither the united states nor the european union are defending farmers: they are defending only the agro-export business. i therefore ask the commission: what specific measures will it take to protect small and mediumsized farmers in the production areas concerned? what steps will you take to defend direct and indirect jobs? what measures will you take to defend fair prices and living wages and also to ensure that the benefits remain in the territories? and finally, what concrete measures will you take to end the vulnerability of olive groves?
mr president, i would like to begin by thanking the commission and the commissioner and her team for their efforts to work with the spanish government, the government of the junta de andalucía and the sector to try to deal with this absolutely unfair situation, which i share with everyone that it is a systemic risk, because of the threat it poses to the cap. i know that every effort is being made, but i wonder: if you cannot prevent it from reaching the final situation and acquiring firmness, what can be the next product? what's the chain? where's trump? because clearly there's no reason for you to open this investigation. i believe that he is acting to defend the particular interests of certain american companies, which are not the general interests of the american people, and of course bypassing all the rules of the world trade organization. but the key question is: can anything be done to prevent it, how can we come together parliament, council commission, sector, farmers, all, to try to stop trump if possible?
mr president, commissioner, the boycott of table olives is not a spanish, andalusian or sevillian problem, it is a european problem: it attacks the heart of the european union, it attacks our cap, our identity. i am going to ask the commission to give this sector the same treatment it has been giving this week in the face of the trump administration's equally arbitrary and unfair attack on other sectors in europe. i ask the same firmness and the same treatment. and i would also ask you to advise, help and support the companies which are making a huge effort to defend themselves against the american institutions: to accompany them, advise them - as i say - and help them to cope with this extremely difficult situation. in short, security and force. but i cannot fail to acknowledge the enormous effort the commission is making and i encourage it to continue along this path.
mr. president, after president trump's recent attack on steel and aluminum, it is now the turn of spanish olive oil. table olives are a strategic sector for spain, especially for andalusia and extremadura. we are the world's largest producer and exporter, with over 332 000 tonnes sold to 180 countries, and 450 industries processing olives into table olives. but above all, it is important to note that this sector generates more than 8 000 direct jobs and countless indirect jobs, in harvesting, cultivation, auxiliary enterprises, transport and a long list. the sector also contributes to spain's gross domestic product of around eur 1 billion. if no action is taken, this attack will not be the last. it is possible that in the near future the same will happen to any other product that the united states considers a threat. the commission must therefore give a firm, forceful response to protect the activities of the agri-food industry and, above all, families and small producers, agricultural cooperatives and workers.
mr president, as a sevillian, an andalusian, a spaniard and a european, i am deeply concerned by this attack on the table olive, which provides jobs for so many families in andalusia. these companies are being scapegoated for this aggressive, unfair and protectionist policy of mr. trump. we cannot leave the olive sector alone, which is defending itself with a lot of money, millions: five million euros is spent on lawyers. today it is table olives, as my colleagues say; tomorrow steel; and after that, what will it be? mrs malmström, i say to you that europe can defend itself, and we will do so and we will do so by your hand, as you are doing so far.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, thank you very much, commissioner, i am not only speaking on behalf of the alde group, but i have the blessed coincidence of being the coordinator responsible for drawing up a joint motion for a resolution on the subject of corporate social responsibility. the fact that there was no agreement to vote tomorrow is because all the groups, which had 72 hours to work on this issue, saw that there was a possibility of reaching agreements if we were allowed to work a little longer. the alde group's position is obviously that parliament is not here to deal with a specific problem of one company - imagine how many companies there are - but to talk about strengthening, improving the win-win situation of corporate social responsibility. it is an excellent instrument for companies, creating a win-win situation because it improves social dialogue, it certainly enables companies to improve their productivity, competitiveness and image, and it also has a very positive social impact. so we are going to develop, adapt, improve what the commission already said in 2013, for example, on corporate social responsibility. i must say that we should not change the concept, and we shall then have a good debate on how far it can go. it is an instrument in the hands of companies and it is an instrument for reacting socially to the strategic decisions of companies, but it is not an instrument which has to determine the strategy of companies, but which will be adapted in the most social way; nor is it an instrument which can never be used to prevent the mobility or the free establishment of companies or their long-term strategies, and even less so when it comes to going from europe to europe. that's true too. let us strengthen corporate social responsibility, but let us not turn it into an obstacle to the creation of a highly mobile, highly diverse and highly competent europe.
mr president, promoting sustainable development, combating waste generation, protecting biodiversity and so on and so forth. these are carrefour's social responsibility values, but they could be mercadona's, embraco's, inditex's or many others. the reality is very different. many continue to transfer activities to countries with cheaper labour, such as embraco, which will close its branch in italy to move to slovakia. marketing campaigns are perfectly legitimate, but let's not confuse advertising with regulation, because if we do, we're one step closer to disaster. there are companies that look the other way when their subcontractors use slave labor. it's unfortunate, but "it's the world, it's the rules of the game", many of you will tell me. that is precisely what we have to do: change the rules of the game, or rather, put rules on the game, because they do not exist now. we're like in the jungle. we cannot leave the lives of people and the lives of the earth in the hands of the goodwill of corporations. we need laws, binding laws, that hold companies accountable for the consequences of their activity on society and the world, and so that, if there are violations, there are of course sanctions.
mr president, it is almost 20 years since the green paper was published, the first major document drawn up by the european union to promote corporate social responsibility. in the first ten years, madam commissioner, the european union did a lot of things and did them well; in the last seven or eight years, it has done almost nothing, almost nothing. the european union has ceased to be the instrument for promoting social responsibility and experience shows us that, unfortunately, voluntary work has ended up becoming a kind of policy in favour of social marketing rather than social responsibility. there is a serious problem here, because the citizens, the workers who are with us today do not believe in corporate responsibility if there is no real coherence between what is social responsibility and what is their work behaviour. and this is the demand i want to make: we need a european policy to promote social responsibility; we need a comprehensive policy to promote the social responsibility of enterprises in all areas of their work, taxation, social and so on.
mr president, the updating of the europass tool will be very necessary, especially at this time of high youth unemployment and the progressive digitisation of labour markets, where new types of qualifications are being combined with new types of jobs. it is a step forward that this tool incorporates the possibility of including non-formal and informal knowledge, skills and qualifications in the curriculum. however, i think it is a pity that this reform does not include the possibility of establishing interoperability between the different languages, thus again stumbling on the same stone that made europass never fully successful. if young people choose not to use europass to update their cvs or look for jobs, it is because they do not consider it a comparatively useful tool - this has been stated by various associations. but let's not forget that this tool is just a small part in a gear that is still broken. our unemployed young people continue to be trained and to access low-quality jobs, working conditions are increasingly precarious and in many countries exile is a real drama. it is urgent to find a solution and implement policies for quality in employment.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to express my full agreement with the measures proposed to ensure community support for the activities of the european union youth orchestra. this orchestra spreads the values of the union by using the talents of today, our young performers, who spread a unique aspect of europe's cultural heritage. our continent has the world's largest catalogue of composers and classical music works that trace and describe our history. helping to tell it by training young people to make the leap to the elite of the music profession and doing so by fostering cross-cultural and multicultural coexistence is a brilliant idea. now that the foundations are being laid for this project to grow, i want to encourage the deepening of this orchestra's capacity to connect with european citizens. there are great musical works created by traditional european cultures and linked to their folkloric tradition: they should be more present in the programmes. decentralising the performances and using this asset to symbolise that the diversity that unites us in europe is all diversity is another good idea, like keeping antennas of this programme for these minority cultures, whose cultural industries are able to triumph at the goya awards gala with films like handia or to send to the oscar list films like loreak.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, the comoros was included in the list of non-cooperating countries in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated (iuu) fishing on 11 july 2017, because it failed to comply with undertakings to combat iuu fishing. the decision to include the comoros on the list of non-cooperating countries was taken after a thorough analysis of the comoros’ stance on the fight against iuu fishing, and following its pre-identification in october 2015 and years of discussions with the comoros. the areas of concern haven’t been addressed by the comoros and the comoros haven’t fully implemented the measures agreed. the main shortcomings leading to this listing were related to, firstly, the flag-of-convenience policy pursued by the comorian authorities and lack of control over its foreign-based fleet register; secondly, evidence of illegal long-distance fishing activities by the comorian fleet; thirdly, the poor or non-existent monitoring and control capacities of the national authorities, and finally, the outdated comorian legal fisheries framework also played a part in the decision. according to our rules against iuu fishing, the commission must propose the denunciation of any bilateral fisheries agreement with such a country. therefore, the commission proposed a denunciation of the partnership agreement in the fisheries sector between the european community and the comoros. we share the issues raised by parliament in the draft motion for resolution and welcome your support. the commission remains fully open to working closely with the comorian authorities to guide them towards a better fisheries management framework, if they express the wish to do so. we are fully conscious of the difficult social situation in the comoros. taking effective measures against illegal fishing is essential to protecting the valuable national resources that can be a significant source of economic and social development in the comoros.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, the european union is one of the main actors in ocean governance and the fight against illegal fishing is one of its cornerstones. through its external action, it exports its sustainability standards and serves as an incentive for third countries to improve their fisheries management, which is beneficial both for the union and its consumers and for the sustainability of ecosystems and fisheries resources. the comoros has not taken any corrective action against the iuu vessels that are fishing in the comoros since the iuu vessels were flagged in 2015. therefore, i consider the 2017 decision to declare them as a non-cooperating country to be correct and i support the decision to terminate the fisheries agreement. i am aware that this decision will be detrimental to several member states, including my own, but we must send a clear and strong message, showing our firm commitment to the fight against illegal fishing and our rejection of any business that comes from it. however, this decision should not mean the end of cooperation relations with the comoros and it is important that this procedure be stopped in the event that its shortcomings are remedied by withdrawing the red card and allowing the return of the union fleet to the fishing grounds.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to ask you to support a decision which we are taking for the first time in the history of fisheries agreements between the european union and third countries: the decision is to terminate the agreement we have with the comoros, which grants 70 fishing licences to vessels from spain, france and portugal in the waters of these islands. the agreement is part of the network of such agreements which enable our fleet to fish for tuna in the indian ocean. this action reflects the union's firm determination to maintain its global leadership in the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, and that leadership is acquired by consistency between what we say and what we do, and it is on this that our credibility is based. the comoros is undergoing a 'red card' procedure which can identify it as a non-cooperating country in the fight against illegal fishing. this is because vessels flying this flag have been found to engage in illegal fishing practices. the authorities are putting very little energy and resources into monitoring and controlling fishing activity, and they are not updating their outdated fisheries legislation, which is in breach of their obligations under international law. for these reasons, we are proposing this decision for the first time. the european union has never before withdrawn from a fisheries agreement, and although the economic and social impact of this measure will not be great, we are clearly facing a failure, but a necessary failure, because to continue in this way is incompatible with the union's values. the european union is committed to sustainable fishing based on clear rules, but it must also show its strong commitment to fighting illegal fishing worldwide. today we are making this commitment a reality and we are doing so with two objectives: firstly, to help stimulate a different attitude in the sector and the fishing activities of the comoros; but, secondly, we are sending a message to other countries that may fall into the same temptations: if they want to continue working with the world's leading fishing power, they must assume their responsibilities, reform their fishing industry and adopt all the legal and material measures to eradicate this type of illegal fishing.
mr president, as other members have said, this is the first time that the european union has terminated a fisheries cooperation agreement on the grounds of illegal fishing. it's an important reason, what happens is that the situation of the country is a drama. i deeply regret that the comorian authorities have not taken corrective measures to solve the problems identified and that in these 30 years, in agreement with the european union, they have not been able to put in place a monitoring and surveillance system to control illegal fishing. the union of the comoros is a group of three islands in southeast africa, in the indian ocean, that stands out as one of the poorest countries in the world. i would also like to stress the importance of having effective measures to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, one of the basic pillars of our fisheries policy. the union must ensure that these fishing activities, both at home and abroad, are based on the same principles and regulatory rules for the conservation and management of marine resources. i would like to stress what the european parliament stresses in its report: that the termination of the fisheries agreement must not, and must never, mean the end of cooperation with the comoros. we ask the european commission to continue the dialogue with these countries to ensure that cooperation with the fisheries sector can be revived as soon as possible and thus help to end the poverty of the people there.
madam president, before the adoption of this regulation we already criticised the fact that it was a missed opportunity to have a firm and fully binding law, a law without legal loopholes that would give us absolute guarantees that we would not import blood minerals into the european union. we voted in favour of the regulation because we think it is the right thing to do. now is the time to assess what the commission has done with the vote of confidence we gave it. but of the €20 million promised by the commission, five and a half have been earmarked for a dutch initiative with broad private participation. we are sincerely concerned about the priority the commission is giving to the interests of large companies and corporations. in order to improve the living conditions of the mining population, the needs of the victims should be given priority. for all these reasons, we call for measures and funding to strengthen the governance of the artisanal mining sector, to ensure its coexistence with the industrial sector, to promote the regularisation of the informal sector, to create mechanisms for coordination and dialogue between the various actors to ensure coherence, and, of course, to do all this always including local actors. we have the opportunity to export human rights in a real and effective way. why are we so shy? who's holding us back? and in conclusion, i just want to thank mrs sargentini for saying that it is also urgent to address the human rights violations that are being committed in the textile sector.
madam president, conflict minerals or blood minerals? between 2018 and 2021, three years will pass in which global and european companies and multinationals, in particular, will continue to make a new version of mineral exploiting colonialism. it has become clear that the voluntary framework does not work and that many of the minerals that reach europe come from violence, from the lack of respect for human rights, from corruption and also from the financing of armed groups. so traceability - and we agree with the commission and the author - is very necessary, but traceability that goes beyond the due diligence guidance, which is a system that is well known to companies; we have checked the websites of many companies that are mining in congo and other continents and only 10% apply it. i would also like to stress the importance of mandatory regulation throughout the supply and marketing chain. i also want to convey my support for the european platform on conflict minerals.
madam president, in 2020, that is to say in less than two years, the electric opel corsa will start to leave the figueruelas factory in my region. the commission has already indicated that by 2020 we would need almost 800 000 charging stations for alternative fuels. at present, according to the study that mr ertug has published, there are only 120,000. so there are 680,000 for alternative fuels, and also for electric vehicles, of course. the accounting tells us that it really takes 24 billion to get a network that is sufficient so that cars that are already on the road and those that will continue to be on the road can be bought normally by their users. and you, mr hahn, are only offering us 800 million as an incentive; we need, as you can imagine, much more. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. and that is why i ask you that, for the new energy mec, we do not have to go through what we had to go through last time, when we almost had to push for money and, of course, for more courageous and urgent legislation.
author. madam president, the maldives is one of the most attractive and exclusive tourist destinations in the world and is also a key geostrategic point on the trade routes of the region. but the reality for its inhabitants is very different from the paradise that is sold to us. the country is facing a political crisis that erupted in february when a state of emergency was declared after the judiciary ordered the release of several opposition members. the state of emergency suspended constitutional guarantees and mechanisms of control and separation of powers, exacerbating the climate of repression against freedom of expression and assembly and the persecution and attacks on political opponents, journalists and members of civil society, as well as human rights defenders. the european union is one of the maldives' main trading partners and we therefore have the means to act. we ask that this european union not put its commercial and geostrategic interests ahead of the interests of the maldivian working classes and take action. your honours, i would like to see him act.
madam president, as some colleagues in this house have pointed out, this is not the first time we have commented on the situation in the maldives. and it must be said that in that small country which is the maldives, the minimum requirements for democracy are still lacking: human rights are not respected, the judicial institutions are intervened by the government and, in addition, politicians and journalists are persecuted for speaking out against the government of that small country - an authoritarian and dictatorial government, let us not forget. and that is why it is so important to support this motion for a resolution, madam president, because we must remember that this country, the maldives, receives a lot of financial aid from the european institutions and does not invest it either in democracy or in respect for human rights or in religious freedom, but, far from that religious freedom, is increasingly a nest of daesh, of the extremist jihadists who are engaged in exporting terror throughout the world. it is an explosive paradise, madam president.
madam president, commissioner hahn, in a debate yesterday afternoon i had the opportunity to say that the european defence of freedoms requires journalists free from threats, but also lawyers and human rights activists free from threats. and that concerns the internal policy of the european union, when it comes to ensuring judicial cooperation and within the framework of the euro-order, to prevent impunity, but also to the european foreign policy, which has the obligation to stand up for the release of mahmoud osman, winner of the sakharov prize in 2007, awarded by human rights watch in 2017 and human rights activist and lawyer who has distinguished himself for legal defense and for legal assistance in the service of those who see their freedoms threatened in sudan: activists, opponents, students, academics and journalists repressed. and this human rights activist pays with repression and imprisonment. the european union therefore has an obligation to use all its diplomatic and persuasive capacity and the weight of its foreign aid to secure the release of mahmoud osman as soon as possible.
madam president, the murder of disabled children in rural uganda is a response to the lack of a strong welfare state, and these are not the only human rights violations that occur in this country. extreme poverty is due to the control of the country by an oligarchy. president museveni has been in power for thirty years. the european union considered the last elections in which it won fraudulent and since then the country has increased its authoritarian tendencies. freedom of expression in uganda does not exist: many critics of the government are imprisoned, when they have not been killed. there are also political prisoners. the gender issue is dramatic: the data on femicide is chilling. the european union, however, does not see this and supports the ugandan government as a partner that acts as a stop-gap for migrants to europe. uganda is home to more than a million refugees from sudan and somalia. the european union should give priority to the promotion and respect of rights in its external action and not subordinate such cooperation to its own geostrategic and security interests. we're tired of repeating it.
madam president, tonight the psol councillor marielle franco was murdered in rio de janeiro. they murdered an activist, a feminist, a human rights activist, an anti-capitalist; an activist murdered in a climate of pre-election political violence in brazil. from this point of view, we express our solidarity with your colleagues and, above all, we firmly condemn, from the european parliament, this climate of violence in brazil.
madam president, i think we have not voted on paragraph 7 of the original text, which would invalidate the result of the vote. please check it.
madam president, i ask you, pursuant to rule 190 (4) of the rules of procedure, to agree to postpone the vote on this item, and of course to extend the amendment phase by extending the time limit for tabling amendments. the reason for this is that we have had practically 36 hours to work on such an important issue at the request of the conference of presidents and we have come to the conclusion - the vast majority of the groups - that on such a delicate, new, complex and important issue as corporate social responsibility, we can probably reach - i say this as coordinator in charge of trying to reach a common resolution - at least more common ground if we can debate with more time. i therefore ask you to accept, on the basis of the said article, the postponement of the vote.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, on behalf of the verts/ale group i would like to thank mr van nistelrooij for this initiative. it is important that we have the opportunity today to speak about the performance reserve for the european structural funds. commissioner hahn, you may remember that the verts/ale group supported the performance reserve in the current funding period. we are convinced that it’s very useful for the quality of the funding programmes. it is based on a new focus on results and milestones that have to be achieved. some – if not all – regions and territories have done their job and are working hard towards the results by putting in place support for energy transition, creating new jobs and continuing to fight poverty and social exclusion. they have done everything the commission asked of them, and now, commissioner hahn, the same commission wants to take away the money that was put in reserve to honour their efforts? seriously? commissioner, the latest proposal from the commission on the performance reserve has damaged the credibility of the european union in the regions. for the verts/ale group it is not acceptable to destroy the performance system at the moment, when it is at full speed. the regions have committed themselves to quality spending and result orientation. the commission must not discourage them. more in general, commissioner, we observe that the commission continues to propose new budgetary instruments. so what is the commission doing to resolve the problem? deviating resources that have already been allocated? we fundamentally disagree with this approach.
the first item on the agenda is the joint debate on:- the report by norbert lins, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the inclusion of greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use, land-use change and forestry in the climate and energy framework until 2030 and amending regulation no 525/2013 of the european parliament and of the council on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and other information relevant to climate change (com (2016) 0479 - c8-0330/2016 - 2016/0230 (cod)) (a8-0262/2017) and the report by jan-ben gerandy, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a mechanism for monitoring and reporting greenhouse gas emissions and other information relevant to climate change (com (2016) 0481 - c8-0231 (cod)) and other greenhouse gas emissions and energy-related information for the purpose of complying with the paris agreement (com (2016) 0481 - c8-0231 (cod)) and the report by jan-ben gerandy, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, environment, public health and energy) on the proposal for a mechanism for the inclusion of greenhouse gas emissions and removals from land use, land use, land use, land use, land use change and forestry and forestry in the climate change and forestry in the framework of the climate action framework for the framework for the climate change for the year 2030 climate change (com (2016) 0488-2030), and amending framework, and amending regulation of the european parliament and the european parliament and the annual report on greenhouse gas) and
member of the commission. – mr president, i am glad we are meeting today to finalise the adoption of two key files to achieve our 2030 climate target. bold regulations are essential elements of our legal framework for implementing the european union’s 2030 commitments under the paris agreement. they show our international partners that the european union is leading by example, because we turn our pledges into agreed action and we are on track on a long-term low emissions pathway. this week a step forward has been possible due to the constructive efforts of the negotiators from both institutions. in particular, i would like to wholeheartedly thank the rapporteurs mr gerbrandy and mr lins for their leadership on these challenging files and congratulate them on the result. we have been able to come to an ambitious and realistic agreement within three months. let me now highlight some specific elements of each of the two laws, starting with the effort sharing regulation, or climate action regulation. this regulation is a crucial instrument to accelerate the low—carbon transition in a number of key sectors of the economy, such as transport, buildings, agriculture and industry, not covered by the emissions trading system. it notably sets binding national targets covering well over half of the european union’s domestic greenhouse gas emissions in order to achieve a european union-wide reduction by 30% in 2030 compared to 2005. the trilogue agreement, which strikes a good balance between environmental integrity, fairness and efficiency, is the result of a thorough negotiation process that involved difficult compromises. the support and steering by the rapporteur mr gerbrandy, as well as the active engagement of the shadow rapporteurs ms ayuso, ms dalli, mr duncan and ms girling, ms konečná, mr eickhout, ms evi and mr jalkh, was crucial in this regard, and i particularly appreciate parliament’s crucial role in ensuring an ambitious outcome. parliament insisted on an early starting date for the emissions reduction trajectory. this saves more than 120 million tonnes of emissions over the period 2021-2030, hence it increases the additional effort by more than 10%. other examples where parliament left a good mark include the introduction of banking limits, the way the ets flexibility is accounted for with reference to the ets market stability reserve, stronger provisions on corrective action, a further substantiated review clause including reference to the manner in which all sectors of the economy contribute in the post-2030 framework and the lulucf flexibility with the inclusion of wetlands, and making their use conditional on annual member state reporting on their intended use. let me move to the lulucf regulation. the lulucf regulation sets for the first time a clear quantitative objective, together with a solid accounting framework, for emissions and removals from land use and forests. once again, this demonstrates to our international partners how the european union tries to lead by example. the contribution from land and forest in reaching the long-term climate mitigation objectives is critical because of the potential for anthropogenic removal of carbon from the atmosphere. forests alone currently cover more than 42% of the european union land surface. they have huge potential for climate change mitigation through regional sequestration and storage of co2. they also have the potential to substitute fossil—based energy materials. i am convinced that the lulucf agreement strikes a proper balance between conflicting interests, and as it was for effort-sharing, the trilogue agreement on this file involves some difficult compromises. the support and active engagement of the rapporteur mr lins, but also of the shadow rapporteurs mr brannen, mr turmes, mr flanagan, mr jávor and ms wiśniewska, was crucial in this regard. the european parliament has strongly contributed to the final shape of the legal text. the agreed provisions of the regulation clearly carry the european parliament’s signature, and i would like to offer some examples: mandatory accounting for emissions and the removal of wetlands towards the commitment of 2026, thus completing the european union’s scope for land accounting; the introduction of a safeguard to prevent decreasing the european union’s overall sink; obliging the commission to assess, at the review, the need for additional union policies and measures, and this includes exploring a post—2030 framework in view of the necessary strengthening of greenhouse gas emissions reductions and removals in the union. parliament’s hand can also be seen in a core article of the regulation on forest accounting. indeed, the rules and governance process for establishing forest reference levels were clarified, taking into account the main requests of parliament. first, the accounting rules were not locked in the harvest rates of the past and this should reassure forest-rich member states and the related industry. second, the forest reference level presented by member states through national plans will be adopted by delegated act. this will ensure the highest degree of involvement of parliament in setting these benchmarks. and thirdly, reflecting on the european parliament’s priorities, this regulation gives more prominence to long-lived harvested products. more wood products create positive incentives not only for the climate, but also for jobs and the economy. finally, keeping deadwood in forests will have environmental benefits such as for biodiversity. this shows the kind of balance that exemplifies the positive spirit of the negotiation. i invite you to support both motions and put europe on track to take its place as a champion of climate policy and to lay out our vision for the way this policy will implement the paris agreement over the next decade.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. mr president, climate change is a matter of global justice. fighting climate and empowering the world's poorest people are two sides of the same coin. and to do that, we need to generate negative emissions from land use and forests, and at the same time protect the right to food and land. with this view, i am glad that the trilogue has improved from the initial positions of the council and the european parliament, and i am also glad that the final report takes food security and food production into account. thanks to this, we will arrive at cop24 with a regulation that is a world first and can become a model for international negotiations. of course, let us not forget that we also had to take into account the rights to land tenure and indigenous peoples, because, again, the fight for climate and global justice go hand in hand.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the commission and this parliament are continuing to take steps towards compliance with the paris agreement and the fight against climate change. by 2030, emissions from transport, agriculture, buildings and waste management will be reduced by 30% compared to 2015. and this effort is going to be divided among the member states according to their per capita income. i think that is a good rule. this regulation will cover a number of measures to be implemented by the member states, such as improving forestry and agricultural management, replacing less efficient boilers in buildings, reducing waste disposal in landfills and promoting less polluting transport technologies. but member states have social, environmental, energy and industrial challenges, and so it is good that we have agreed to give countries different flexibilities in relation to meeting emissions targets. this will enable member states to target their reductions with the greatest technological advantages and lowest costs. i am also pleased that rules have been included which take account of the special situation of the countries most affected by the economic crisis. finally, i think it is very important that forestry removals can be counted in order to offset emissions. member states, however, need to develop computer systems that are robust and comparable. i would like to conclude by congratulating the commissioner on the efforts he has made during these months of negotiations, and also the council, and i would ask all the political groups to support the agreement in recognition of the great work done by the rapporteur of this house, mr gerbrandy, and because it is a good agreement. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. mrs kumpula-natri, well, i appreciate your considerations, but you haven't asked me any questions.
mr president, taking advantage of the fact that commissioner arias cañete is here with me, i have always spoken about fisheries, but this time it is about climate change and the impact of greenhouse gases. i would like to bring up a very serious problem, which has been mentioned by a colleague, namely the issue of fires and their impact on carbon emissions. in the case of galicia, asturias and portugal, the forests are carbon sinks, but much depends on the species, and i would like to bring up the eucalyptus problem here. a few months ago, during the time of the galician fires, we asked the commissioner to prepare a report on the impact of greenhouse gases and climate change on fires, on drought, on species types. and i would like to remind you today that this action to mitigate forests is necessary, but not on the basis of planting species that are favourable to co2.
i would like to begin by saying that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets. we rarely have the tools to push europe forward; we have few days like today to talk about the future projects we want for our union. we are still a place of peace, although we sometimes forget it, and we are still a place of prosperity, which has been diminished in recent years; and we are still the region of the world with the greatest social justice, although we should continue to be more ambitious. for too many years now, some of the european values of solidarity, fraternity, justice, freedom have been diluted by other objectives; but above all, the collective political will to build a community in which we all recognize ourselves in our diversity has been diluted by more particular, more selfish, more extremist objectives: the only aim is to deepen a division of europe not seen since the end of the second world war. however, too often the debates we have in our house are far removed from what is perceived in the street. what do the media say about this europe which is moving away from the idea of integration of our founding fathers? the europeanist sentiment does not extend beyond the brussels bubble. we have long ago stopped seeking what unites us to defend what divides us. we've lost sight of our ivory towers. so in today's debate, i want to emphasise that the circular economy can and should be a circle to relaunch the european project of our founding fathers. i would like to draw the commission's attention to the fact that it should not miss the opportunity to turn this project into a new 'schuman declaration'. the transition to the circular economy is to choose the path of leadership in the world and to abandon the path of reaction. we must continue to exercise this leadership for the fight against climate change, as we committed to at cop21. a struggle which has the support of european society. these objectives are based on the reindustrialisation of europe with a low-emission industry. this is a feasible project that has a direct impact on the creation of quality and decently paid jobs. without jobs, any project will end up being an orphan of social support. only by creating new jobs can we bring about this change project; only with a cutting-edge, intelligent and sustainable economy will we offer a present and a future to our society. let us europeans make the circular economy our future in the 21st century, as the ecsc was the building block of the european union in the 20th century. we shall be adopting this first package of directives on waste, packaging, landfills and batteries and accumulators, drawn up by mrs bonafè, next wednesday. my report on environmental information is a small contribution to paving the way towards the circular economy so that we can make this transition to a new economy more agile and easier for our citizens, our economy and our common project. and mrs bonafè's reports, as well as the work of the alternative rapporteurs and all the people she has mentioned in her speech, are the crucial first stone of this new path that europe must take. our citizenship demands it of us. we say we are ready.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would like to thank, in this my second speech, all those who have worked on the dossier on environmental information, and especially andrés and kristi from the council, stefan and julia from this house, and andrew from the commission, without whom we would not have been able to get it through as quickly as we have. i would also like to thank the work of the alternative rapporteurs, whose collaboration has enriched and made the report more effective, and will help, as i said in my first speech, to pave the way for the implementation of the circular economy. when we began this mandate, president juncker made it a priority to create the conditions for job creation and the impetus for reindustrialisation after the dark years of the economic crisis that hit and continues to hit europe. in the moments before cop21 we all called for europe to take up the international leadership it had been losing in recent years and we committed ourselves to the fact that the progress of our economy had to go hand in hand with the environment. and next wednesday we must take this first step towards the european economy of the 21st century, a path we must take together with the european citizens, their industry and their social partners, to strengthen the ties that unite us in the european project of the coming decades; a real, feasible project in which each and every one of us can feel part every day of our lives.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank our dear colleagues for their interesting suggestions, and this debate is very timely – not only for our own evaluation of the 7th environment action programme (eap), but even more for the upcoming reflections on the next environmental priorities. your report on the 7th eap, rightly pointed out some shortcomings in these current practices. i fully agree with the need for better policy coherence and increased integration of environmental objectives into other policies. mr marias referred to pesticide residues in imported feed. this is, as you understand, not my area, but there are standards in place which apply to imports to ensure the health of eu citizens. the next steps in these debates are the upcoming multiannual financial framework and the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap). i can assure you that there is strong recognition of the importance of environmental mainstreaming, and i am working closely with my colleagues in the college to ensure that environmental and climate-related challenges are duly reflected in our proposals. this is particularly important for the common agricultural policy, which needs to do more for water, nature and biodiversity. in its current form, the policy is not delivering as expected, despite the significant funding dedicated to greening. this has also been confirmed by the european court of auditors, so i am pressing strongly to rectify this in the context of our upcoming proposals. specifically on environmental mainstreaming in the future cap, i count on the european parliament to ensure that this will be reflected in the final agreement of the co-legislators.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to start by thanking the rapporteurs, ms šojdrová and ms kozłowska-rajewicz, as well as all the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work with their reports. the report and the resolution we are discussing today are very relevant and very timely. allow me also to excuse my colleague, commissioner maria gabriel, who is not able to be here today but who made sure to follow your works and whose commitment towards promoting women’s participation and representation in the digital, media and audiovisual sectors is very strong. mobilising women and encouraging them to work in the digital field and to specialise in ict is a needed step. women make up less than one in five ict graduates in the eu and only 17% of the almost eight million people working in ict are women. we need to boost the involvement of girls and women in digital technologies. that is why the commission started a reflection process on how to take a more strategic approach on women in the digital field as part of the commission digital education action plan and the new skills agenda. the strategy proposes three ways to attract girls and women to take up science, technology, engineering and mathematics studies and go into ict-related areas. first, it aims at challenging the gender stereotypes and bias towards women that persist in society and in the digital economy as well. we need to highlight role-models and positive images of women in ict. when it comes to the participation of women in media organisations or film-making, we can only agree with your report. significant inequalities, including under-representation and career barriers remain entrenched in the media sector. this is something that the european commission is attentive to through media pluralism monitoring, which shows that in the eu there are only a few women on public service media boards. these findings are in line with other data which show that, despite over-representation of women among graduates in journalism and information, and despite a high number of women working in the media sector in europe, women remain under-represented in management positions in media. only one third of the board members of public broadcasters across the eu are women and, like in other areas, women are heavily under-represented in top-level positions, accounting only for 22% of board presidents. a similar picture arises when we look at film-making. only one in five films is directed by a woman, and the reason is not that there are no women directors. the proportion of female directors graduating from film schools and entering the film industry is 44%. that is why the commission wants action in the field too. working through the media programme on gender for 2018, we shall track gender equality in the projects we are going to fund. the second area of the strategy focuses on skills and education. we need to make digital skills training accessible and attractive for women. in this area, the commission has, for example, launched the digital skills and jobs coalition which carried out a special call for concrete commitments by private companies and public institutions. in 2017, the commission also awarded the european digital skills award, presented to projects that encourage girls and women to take up digital skills and careers. moreover, the commission supports eu code week, which had 1.2 million participants last year, of which 46% were girls or women. the third area of the strategy focuses on promoting digital entrepreneurship for women and lowering access barriers. the commission has funded web hubs, the first european community that connects business ecosystems and provides them with mentoring tools to support women entrepreneurs in the digital sector. every year, the eu prize for women innovators recognises outstanding women entrepreneurs and inspires others to follow in their footsteps. the commission is acting on several fronts in the effort to boost gender equality and empowerment. you know of the initiatives launched in the past years: the gender pay gap action plan or the eu social pillar, with its work-life balance agenda. at the same time, i will try again over this year to unblock the situation in the council as regards the women on boards directive. another key priority is to end violence against women and girls. this is a particular challenge related to digitalisation – online violence and harassment against girls and women. we are working on several strands to prevent violence, protect and support victims. i am pushing for the swift accession of the eu to the istanbul convention, which will provide a clear framework for our actions in this area. overall, the european commission is very pleased that the european parliament shares our vision about the place of women in media organisations as well as having in media a more diversified and realistic picture of the skills and potential of men and women in society.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, women suffer discrimination and inequality in all areas of life and, of course, also in the digital and media spheres. i therefore welcome these two reports, in which we refer to the need to promote policies that improve the situation of equality in these two fundamental areas. and i welcome the intervention of the commissioner in which she has raised the importance of unblocking the directive on women on boards of directors, which is a fundamental issue. on march 8, in spain, the face of women disappeared from television. women's voices were not heard on the radio; women's writing was not in the newspaper articles. women journalists contributed to the success of the strike and the women's demonstrations in spain. we call the media the "fourth power", because that power also has to be shared, we also have to break through the glass ceilings in the media spheres. we need to be able to move forward in more just, more equal societies, and the media have a fundamental role in this. of course, women should be the main protagonists.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, the media have a key role to play: they can perpetuate gender stereotypes or they can be an ally for equality. the european parliament should certainly push the second way, as did the united nations, which recently adopted a declaration on gender equality in the media, because today most audiovisual content (and especially advertising) spreads male and female ideals that are harmful to society, that are neither equal nor healthy; content that perpetuates stereotypes about women and lgbti people and that often leads to public health problems, such as the huge numbers of adolescents suffering from anorexia and bulimia today. that is why, ladies and gentlemen, i call on you to support our amendment in favour of a european directive to end sexism in advertising. economic reasons cannot continue to be an excuse for maintaining discrimination in the media.
madam president, thank you for all your hard work and efforts. the combination of stereotypes and prejudices linked to the traditional distribution of roles makes women less interested in vocational and higher education linked to new technologies. that is why i support the strategic approach that the commissioner has outlined. this sector offers high employability, well-paid jobs and high entrepreneurial opportunities. however, it does not sufficiently capture the attention of women, who are underrepresented in it. this has repercussions on ict products, services and content and creates a vicious circle. making it virtuous requires further research to find out what is keeping women away from these activities; in addition, specific actions from childhood to awaken technical vocations in women and networks, products and services that bring the advantages of ict closer to the female public. finally, indicators to measure what we are doing to ensure that women, like men, will be able to tap into one of the main sources of employment and knowledge in the coming decades.
madam president, if women journalists stop, for journalism, as happened on 8 march in the feminist strike. this is a very important debate: 37% of women presenters or commentators, 30% of women in media channels, 25% of women on board of directors, 18% of women commentators or media specialists, these are the general data of inequality. but these are not the only problems: the wage gap is 17%, and temporary and precarious work is another of the terrible realities, the consequence of a patriarchal conception in which the spaces are totally masculinized. and that's not the end of the difficulties for women journalists and communicators. sexual and occupational harassment is on the agenda. the same is true of paternalism inside and outside newsrooms, and in this problem sexist news treatments abound. we, men and women of politics, with the capacity to change reality, must prevent inequality by also banning advertisements for sexual contacts and even applying social clauses to the media that promote them.
the rapporteur. madam president, the european union has been and must remain a global actor oriented towards peace, progress and solidarity. but peace cannot flourish amid poverty, injustice and insecurity. inequitable development - lack of opportunities - fuels conflict, destabilises regions and leads to disorderly population movements. climate change is threatening the very future of humanity and is increasing the frequency and intensity of many natural disasters. the summits in sendai, addis ababa, new york, paris and istanbul have underlined that we all live in one world, on a common planet, and that we will only improve and preserve it if we take on the shared responsibility of improving it between all and for all. this report calls for the european union to continue to take the lead in this solidarity responsibility. the lisbon treaty has established poverty reduction and eradication as the main objectives of the union's development cooperation policy, a policy aimed at promoting fundamental values such as respect for human rights, democracy, peace, solidarity and support for global public goods. in fact, the european union and its member states are the world's largest donors. they are so because of the financial weight of their contribution, but also because of their experience and leadership in the negotiations of the main international instruments. of the various financial instruments for the union's external action, the development committee is responsible for the review of three of them. the purpose of this report is to contribute to this review, initiated by the commission, of the european development fund, the development cooperation instrument and the humanitarian aid instrument. the report analyses the implementation of these instruments from january 2014 to june 2017 and 'although lacking important information, something that needs to be improved for the future' it gives a positive assessment of the implementation of these instruments, but also assesses them for the future and makes some recommendations until the end of their validity in 2020 and for the next multiannual financial framework. the evaluation has drawn on several of the commission's reports, a specific report prepared by the european parliamentary research service (specifically on humanitarian aid) and some other reports by non-governmental organisations and civil society actors. the challenges the european union has faced in recent years have not seriously undermined the effort of its actions, but above all they should not undermine them in the future, even with the foreseeable reducing impact of brexit, because there are other global actors who are willing to abandon their global responsibilities, something that the european union will have to take on at some point to replace them. that is going to be very necessary from the point of view of financial resources. we therefore call for a clear and committed timetable to achieve 0.7% of gdp. i would like to thank the alternative rapporteurs for their contribution to this report, because it is certainly not a contribution to correcting some of the points in the report but to re-incorporating whole paragraphs, different approaches, which have enriched that continent. the report stresses the need for at least 20% of the development cooperation instrument to continue to be allocated to the provision of basic social services and public goods. it called for the future budgeting of the european development fund, for greater involvement of civil society and local actors, for greater transparency, accountability and parliamentary scrutiny and for a review of the next multiannual financial framework. we are 12 years away from meeting the sustainable development goals: it seems like a long time, but it's just around the corner, and the effort has to be stepped up.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgets. – madam president, development policy instruments are of the utmost importance for showing the eu’s commitment to global justice and for the provision of public global goods. still, development aid needs long—term programing and predictability. the insufficient amount of eu resources devoted to external action and the need to react within the margins to unforeseen humanitarian emergencies are usually detrimental to meeting development aid goals in a more efficient way. furthermore, development money should only be used for development—related purposes, and not for other purposes such as covering internal refugee costs, externalising migration policies outside the eu’s border or paying the cost of returns and readmissions to countries of origin. last, but not least, the fight against climate change should play a more important role in development cooperation, and paris commitments should be fully reflected in instruments and programmes.
i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr enrique guerrero, on this report, although we are moderately optimistic about the report we are voting on tomorrow. optimistic, because parliament reaffirms that development aid is intended to eradicate poverty in a context of sustainable development and for nothing else; moderate, because we find it unacceptable that national interests in the field of migration management end up determining the european development agenda. we also denounce the fraudulent use of these items in the trust funds and we deeply regret the lack of coherence between development and trade policies, because business profit is continually prioritised over the objectives of sustainable development. the union's cooperation policy and instruments should follow comprehensively the 2030 agenda for sustainable development, the paris agreement on climate change and other relevant international agreements. our optimism, as i said, is moderate because we know that, although the position of this parliament is firm and clear, the ball is in the court of the states. we are asking that the voice of the european citizens represented here be respected, who are always much more supportive and fair than their governments and who have for years, for example, supported 0.7% of gdp for development aid.
the rapporteur. madam president, as the commissioner, mr nimica, has said, what we have to do now is to look to the future and win the future for development cooperation. it is clear that with these instruments we will live until 2020. but we have to look beyond that and we have to focus on the sustainable development goals at the 2030 frontier. it is true that we need more consistency. it is true that we need simplification, but this can be achieved without making development cooperation policy subordinate to short-term political strategies which may have a strategic interest. if this report is adopted by parliament tomorrow - as i hope - it will not be a report that will outline the future, but it will be a good basis for us to start discussing with the commission and the council the future of the multiannual financial perspective.
madam president, yesterday hundreds of thousands of people demonstrated again in barcelona peacefully, as we always do, to demand the release of political prisoners and the return of exiles. today, jordi sànchez and jordi cuixart, two of the political hostages, are serving six months in pre-trial detention; but the spanish state and those who are fuelling this spiral of repression and this anti-democratic drift will not get away with it, because they will not be able to stand up to so many tons of dignity from an entire people; because the fiction that has been invented to justify repression, whether violence, whether coup d'état, whether rebellion, will fall like a house of cards, and because there are more and more opinions in europe that say that the harassment of fundamental, civil and political rights cannot be allowed. and this europe will always be our europe.
madam president, i have to ask you. the spanish senate rejected on 9 april a proposal for an international congress to review the historical dimension of the bombing of guernica. the condor legion used this war action against defenseless civilians - a crime against humanity - to rehearse what it would later commit in the rest of europe during the second world war. this refusal is a consequence of the spanish policy on historical memory, which has been repeatedly condemned by the main international institutions. the gaps in training in fundamental rights, which the united nations denounces in the spanish judiciary, or the resistance to accepting one's own diversity, are part of this unhealed wound. today, now, 100,000 families are still searching for their relatives in ditches and mass graves. the same judiciary that denies them truth, justice and reparation is inventing accusations of rebellion to disable the absolute majority newly elected by the citizens in catalonia. the judiciary itself has been repeatedly condemned for not investigating torture crimes. a scandal in any other member state.
madam president, i would like to begin by thinking of the families of the saharawi people who died in the plane crash near algiers. we demand the immediate and unconditional release of all political prisoners from the sahara and denounce the inhumane conditions in which they are held. gdeim izik prisoners, who were given very harsh sentences ranging from 20 years to life imprisonment, were brutally dispersed in mid-september 2017 to seven different prisons across morocco, most of them more than 1,000 kilometers from their families. the conditions of detention in prisons in morocco have led saharawi prisoners to go on a hunger strike for 33 days: a slow death for demanding the rights of the saharawi people to self-determination. we have co-signed a parliamentary question to mrs mogherini with many members of the european parliament from six different political groups, expressing our concern and concern about the situation of political prisoners. morocco does not respect international law. the european union must play the role of mediator and put pressure on morocco about its action and the conditions of detention in moroccan prisons. the council, on the other hand, is signing a fisheries agreement today... i send a message of solidarity from the peoples of europe to the saharawi people and to all political prisoners. long live the free sahara!
madam president, the hostelcur gijón team, formerly known as club patín gijón solimar, is a modest skating hockey club, from the neighbourhood specifically from the neighbourhood of la calzada in gijón; but its sports team, its board, its players and all its fans are universal. the senior women's team recently won their fifth european cup - five european cups! - and yet i wonder why minority sports, and even more so women's sports, continue to suffer double penalty in the eyes of the public. i therefore ask the european commission to improve the programmes within erasmus+ to encourage sport, always with a gender perspective. i'm not going to let you go.
madam president, a strong and well-developed civil society is the best antidote to the erosion of a democratic regime and the resurgence of new authoritarianisms. article 2 of the treaty on european union states that the union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, values which are unfortunately being significantly eroded and are not the ones guiding the main policies of the european union today. the role of civil society is fundamental in monitoring the implementation of these values. for this reason, where it has difficulties in carrying out its activities independently and effectively, this instrument should be applied to ensure that it can carry out its activity. the question is: what will the european people's party do, will it side with orbán or with civil society organisations? will you vote with those who want democracy, freedom, equality to be respected or will you support, side with the new forces of the extreme right that remind us of the worst of our history?
madam president, commissioner, unfortunately, for some time now, the values which are essential to the construction of europe, such as political pluralism, the independence of the judiciary and fundamental rights, have not been taken for granted: there are alarming setbacks, and not just in hungary or poland. we know well that democracy requires not only strong institutions, legitimized by the vote, but civil society and non-governmental organizations that are able to sustain themselves in the face of any risk of persecution. and that is why the disaffection caused, particularly among the younger generation, by this surge of populism, xenophobia and a retreat from the values and the essential pillars of european construction must be combated with an instrument like this, an instrument that makes sense: the instrument of support and support for the essential values of the union. but it must be complementary to existing funds in the member states, to national funds, and it must learn from the successful experience of funds already in place, such as the european instrument for democracy and human rights, and, above all, it must be compatible with the moral, legal and political support that non-governmental organisations at risk deserve, for example the spanish volunteers proem-aid or proactiva open arms, who risk criminal proceedings for having sacrificed everything to save lives at sea. this is completely unacceptable. not only financial support to ngos, but also political and legal support to these ngos.
madam president, thank you, mrs jourová, for being here again today, for supporting this strengthening of civil society and, above all, for speaking about fundamental rights and european values. i would like to remind you today of something we should bear in mind every day, namely the right to accurate information which we have as citizens, citizens of the world, but above all as citizens of europe. we will never be able to thank the russian president, putin, enough for putting on our agenda, for putting on our agenda, this threat against the right to truthful information, and that is why i want to remind you that this is one of the fundamental rights, which implies one of the basic freedoms, which is freedom of the press and freedom of expression. so i want to thank all the movements and all the efforts on the part of the european union to take this very seriously and to see that this is not just a threat to security, it's a threat to democracy, and that's why we have to make the maximum effort to insist on education.
mr president, we are in the midst of a debate on the future of europe, and i would like to ask you what you think about the regions that want to be new states in europe. we are talking about european sovereignty and i fully agree that the challenges of the future are precisely the challenges of greater sovereignty for europe, of a stronger europe. my question is about the outbreak of nationalist sovereignty throughout europe and i ask you what you think about the possibility of a future europe which can be built on the different regions that want to be new states, separate from the member states. what is your view of the future of europe in the light of this claim?
mr president, in this house, certainly in my group, no one has any doubt about the need to stop the use of chemical weapons by the al-assad regime, and in that you have our full support. now, has it been effective enough? has this attack, this response, had the european 'europeanist' endorsement that you defend, the sovereignty of the europeans? will this attack change the course of the war, or rather, mr president, do we need to deploy a strong diplomatic action to get all parties to sit at the table, on a path of reconstruction and peace in syria? would it not be more useful to seek european endorsement for such decisive and definitive diplomatic action to avoid pain and suffering in syria?
mr president, president macron, many of us liked the energy you put into your turn to respond, as we liked the praise you gave to the nobility and complexity of democracy - which is a message against populism - and the vindication of the authority of democracy - which is a message against illiberal democracy. but president juncker replied that tomorrow's history is written today, and time is already running against us, because the 2019 elections are a test, a test for european leadership essentially on two points. the first: balance between freedom and security. fight against terrorism? i am sure that the european parliament will be able to support the commission's proposals, but i am afraid that the commission will not be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on transport and tourism. and secondly, those prime ministers who commit themselves to increasing the resources for the union budget, who ensure that in the next budget there are own resources, a financial transaction tax, which we have so much called for and which is not yet in force at european level. and of course, there is also the relentless fight against tax havens and tax evasion.
(start of the intervention off the microphone) ...commitments are always welcome, but of course, those commitments must be more ambitious. that is what was decided in the paris agreement and we are already too late. the member states must commit themselves to a radical reduction in greenhouse gas emissions and it is the duty of this parliament to urge them to do so, because otherwise it will be the case that corrupt governments, such as the spanish government, will continue to implement policies which are against the planet and the health of people. spain is the third country in europe that has emitted more emissions of the so-called kyoto basket in 2015, only surpassed by cyprus and turkey. climate change is a political challenge, and it involves making important decisions and political decisions; it involves changing the way we understand life, and of course, let's be clear that it's not solved by emissions markets, that's just a make-up.
mr president, the institutions of the council and the commission, after the appearance of dialogue, have not bothered to maintain the proposals which this parliament had approved. after a hard debate on whether to include more ambitious targets that would bring europe closer to meeting the paris agreement on reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the trilogues have returned a document that puts the brakes on the fight against climate change and the sustainability of the planet. after a few years of timid progress, the negotiators have not wanted to talk about setting a final binding target, which is essential if we really want to commit to the targets signed at the paris climate summit. they left this statement on wet paper. on the contrary, they have introduced more flexibility in the exchange, i.e. the purchase of emission allowances, and have relativised the protection of wetlands and forests. this european union seems to believe that the dramatic point at which the planet is is not enough to get to work, and it does not seem to have any plan other than to continue with the escalation of the destruction of the planet.
less than one in five experts, tertullian or presenters are women. our media is full of male-led programmes that contribute to the generation of stereotypes and the invisibility of women. the media are today the most important mechanism of socialization; they not only describe realities, they also construct them and can also change them. i voted in favour of this report because, among other things, it recommends that greater emphasis be placed on gender equality plans in media organisations, in order to promote a positive representation of women in advertising, news, reporting, production and broadcasting. the creation of regulatory bodies and incentives, such as quotas, for equal gender representation in decision-making and management positions are steps in the right direction, as well as the transversalization of content and ensuring a safe environment for women workers. today i would also like to thank the journalists and presenters who joined the strike on 8 march in spain for making the struggle for women's equality visible. his role was pivotal.
mr president, there are many regions in europe which are affected by demographic decline. the demographic decline also affects my country, spain, and among other regions galicia, where i come from. both the galician government and the central government are taking steps to meet this serious challenge, but i think it is necessary that european cohesion policy also contributes to this. i therefore voted in favour of the joulaud report on strengthening cohesion. i would stress that paragraph 13 of this report states that cohesion policy must give priority to regions suffering from demographic decline. in addition, paragraph 22 calls for the european structural and investment funds to also be used to address the demographic challenges affecting several regions in europe. i also agree that, in addition to the criterion of income per head as the main indicator for the allocation of european funds, other complementary criteria should be taken into account, as required by paragraph 26, including the demographic criterion. i would therefore like to see the european commission, in its proposal for the multiannual financial framework, take account of the demographic criterion in the system of allocation of funds.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, today in this house we are going to discuss issues which are of great importance for the future of the union and i believe to a large extent for the world. the response to the human drama of refuge is testing the strength of our values and our identity, and we are not doing well at the moment. migration is a key element for our future, for our economic, demographic, social, political and ethical continuity, but in both cases only a global response based on cooperation and shared responsibility can be effective, just and humane. that is why the socialist group has called for this debate and the accompanying resolution. because we believe it is essential to support the action of a european union which is ambitious in both world pacts and exercises the leadership that is due to us. for that it was very important to reach a great consensus in this house, which we have done around a common text that defends the dignity of the human rights of all people - whether refugees or migrants - that addresses the situation of the most vulnerable, that calls for more legal and safe pathways for refugees and migrants and that expressly calls for humanitarian assistance not to be criminalised, as is being done at the moment in the mediterranean with the ngo open arms. it is true that global pacts will not be binding and that, despite their great potential, they are fragile; that is why we must seize this unique opportunity. just by getting a more optimistic, more positive narrative about migration, we would have already achieved a great deal of success. we cannot lose the battle against those who sow hate speech; we must win that battle, starting with the european council. mr avramopoulos, mrs mogherini, you have my full support.
mr president, i am more pessimistic than commissioner avramopoulos or mrs... the people who have gone before me; perhaps because i am the daughter of a girl who was a war refugee and i see that the vast majority of them will not have a future, they will not have the future that my mother was finally able to know. the problem with this resolution is that the evaluation is not entirely real: there is no political will to make this beautiful resolution a reality. we are covering with words the mountains of mud and misery of children who have no future, of women enslaved in libya, of the sick. we are asking in the proposal that humanitarian aid not be criminalised, but we have done nothing since the agreement with turkey but remove the ngos from the picture. the authorities say things but, little by little, remove uncomfortable witnesses. proactiva open arms, for example, does what we are not capable of doing and has gone from receiving awards in 2016 to suffering from campaigns to discredit or to be removed from the libyan warlords - those we pay for - from the middle. at least 14,500 deaths in the central mediterranean since 2015, three years of humanitarian crisis and many children without a future.
mr president, the new york declaration commits us to the adoption of a global compact on refugees in 2018 and a global pact for safe, regular and orderly migration, to be signed in morocco in december. forced migration is a human phenomenon, a reality as a consequence of armed conflict, terrorism or climate change. according to the unhcr, it is already known that, with data from 2015, about 65 million people were living in a situation of forced displacement. the emergency trust fund to address the root causes of migration in africa or the union's legislative package on migration and asylum are two key instruments to help manage this situation. the member states must commit themselves to the high representative and promote the agreements of the new york declaration. only together on a global scale can these challenges be addressed. we must assist, help and support the developing countries that are hosting refugees. coordination between humanitarian aid and development policies is essential to improve effectiveness, efficiency and assistance to refugees. cooperation between countries and regions is a must. we need the global approach as a global response, and that combines fundamentally three areas: the area of diplomacy, the area of security and the area of development cooperation.
mr president, we are witnessing a sharp increase in the phenomenon of mobility, not only for economic reasons but also because of political persecution, crises or conflicts. no region in the world is more or less immune to these population flows and therefore international coordination should be strengthened to better manage these flows while at the same time safeguarding the rights of migrants and refugees. dialogue between receiving, originating and transit countries is essential. the european parliament must play a leading role in the united nations in drawing up global agreements now that we are entering the so-called intergovernmental phase of negotiation: we can offer our experience and our views on this problem. i believe that a realistic analysis and debate of migration is necessary, taking into account its positive potential, but we cannot ignore the security concerns of the transit or home states, nor the limits to their capacity for economic and social integration. in recent years europeans have become well aware of the phenomena of migration and its tragic problems. we have experienced the so-called refugee crisis, which has affected the eastern mediterranean as well as the central mediterranean. even today, the mediterranean is still the scene of daily news about irregular migration attempts or flows. we need to continue to intensify dialogue and cooperation with countries of origin and transit. i would like to stress the importance of the valletta action plan and the agreements reached with some of the sahel countries. in short, we europeans must give priority to our relations with africa and tackle the deep roots of migration. underdevelopment, crises and conflicts explain many of these flows. and that's the end of it. i believe that we must also intensify - and i end with this - the fight against the mafias who traffic in the lives and dreams of so many human beings.
mr president, commissioner mogherini, it is rare in politics that the urgent and the important coincide, but this is the case, because if there is something urgent and important it is to change the european union's negative view of immigration, which is not a crisis, nor a threat, but a constant in history that is here to stay. and the european union has a duty to deal with it in an orderly and safe way with all the parties involved, and to do so in accordance with european law, which establishes not only the moral duty to provide help to those fleeing from despair, but also the legal obligation to do so in accordance with international law and european law in particular. this is the time to fulfill the objective of the united nations: a global compact, a global pact for immigration, that will order the matter and confront the enemies of that global commitment; outside the european union, the trump presidency, and within the european union, the xenophobic discourse of some countries, such as the orbán government. but it is time to do so also, in accordance with the common european asylum system and by finally imposing a legal and safe way for regular immigration into the european union: humanitarian visas.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i listened carefully to this debate and i thank this house for its support for the difficult work we are trying to do in the un system on the global compacts on migration and refugees, in a global environment that, it is quite clear to all of us, is a challenging one and in particular on issues like this. we are well aware of our responsibilities in this respect, i would say on two different levels, both of them extremely important. one is the investment in the un system and in multilateral approaches, as such. we know very well that this is challenged from different sides in the world of today. and we know very well that the world looks at the european union to create, consolidate and strengthen alliances globally to work in a multilateral manner. this could be true for issues related to different things, from trade to human rights and crisis management, but also on migration and refugees. so we know that the un system counts on us. we know that the partners around the world count on us to make sure that the multilateral approach and the multilateral method are the ones followed when tackling a global issue. i would never – never – say ‘problem’, because we’re not talking about a problem, if not for those fleeing countries at war or facing forced movements. as for the specifics of our responsibilities, we know that we have a responsibility to uphold a certain approach to the migration issues and also on refugees. on refuges, this is clearly full respect of values and, in particular, full respect of international principles and regulations. and it is also a matter of the basic moral compass that for us as the european union is a must, and this entails full respect of human rights and the consideration that every single person that is a refugee or migrant is first and foremost a human being and, as such, has individual human rights that are impossible to be considered as subject to discussions or negotiations. we also know that we have a responsibility to build consensus globally on a certain way of managing migration. i say ‘managing migration’. i don’t say ‘stopping a problem’. i say managing migration, which is the partnership approach. the european union has not always been on this line. the european union has, in the past, several times either turned its eyes away from this issue, leaving the front-line member states alone. or some other times – i still sometimes see this temptation here and there – it has taken the security approach, as if it were a border management issue. migration movements are massive global phenomena that need to be managed together with partnerships that involve countries of origin, countries of transit, and countries of destination. some of these countries are at the same time the three and the international agencies of the united nations system. i will give you an example of how this partnership approach is bringing results, because this is the basis on which we are going to work. and we are already working in the un system to try to build a global alliance around this model. take the dramatic situation in the detention camps in libya. we have discussed this in this chamber several times. and several times i have told you we are working to close these camps. last december we established a joint task force between the european union, the african union, united nations with unhcr and the iom, and we set the target of emptying the detention camps and, as an intermediate target, to save 15 000 of the people that were in the detention camps in libya in the coming two months. we have managed to save more than 16 000 of them in less than two months and have assisted them in returning voluntarily to their own local communities and supported them with reintegration projects and economic start-up activities. and we are about to completely empty the detention centres in libya. the news was shocking and striking when we saw the images and the stories from the detention camps. i would also like us to tell the stories of those whom we managed to save as we empty the detention camps. because this helps us pass on the message inside europe and outside of europe, that this is not the policy we’ve chosen purely out of values and good feelings. this is also the policy that is bringing results. it’s cooperation and partnership, and not walls, that is bringing results in migration policies, and we are starting to see good results. we will continue to take this approach, hoping for a united position between the member states of the european union but let me tell you we will exercise our responsibilities and duties in the un context on migration and refugees. we will, i imagine, continue to discuss this issue in this chamber in the coming months as we go towards the summit and then the finalisation of this work towards the end of the year. i count on this parliament to follow this work very closely on a day-to-day basis to help us to build this way of working, both internally within the european union and outside it. i will not refer here to the issues related to dublin or to other decisions related to solidarity internally that still, i believe, should be tackled. but today in this building i speak of a global compact both on migration and on refugees based on the principles of human rights and respectful partnership across the globe.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, 10 days ago chemical weapons were used yet again in syria, on the outskirts of damascus this time. we have said very clearly time and again that, even when the war in syria disappears from the headlines, we always have to remember that the war in syria is not over yet and, in particular, that the use of chemical weapons is a pattern which we have seen developing from the regime side over the years. the entire international community, we believe, considers the regime’s use of chemical weapons entirely unacceptable, but for europeans, it most certainly is. our response as the european union was very clear, united, and immediate. the use of chemical weapons is unacceptable to us, and those responsible must be held accountable. accountability is also a key element when it comes to building a new future for syria, as i think president macron very rightly mentioned here this morning in the chamber. we, as the european union, have always worked in all the different contexts that we could, and we continue to do so, in order to re-establish an independent mechanism for investigating the use of chemical weapons in syria. today we are working to enable the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons to investigate and report on the most recent attack. you have all followed the targeted strikes carried out by france, the united states and the united kingdom on chemical facilities in syria with one objective: to prevent the regime from using chemical weapons again. you will also have seen the reactions, including the declaration i issued a few hours later on behalf of the 28 member states, and the council conclusions which we adopted yesterday and cover not only the issue of the use of chemical weapons, but also, more generally, our common position on the conflict in syria. the main point here is this: now more than ever, it is clear that the only sustainable, the only pragmatic, the only possible solution, to the war in syria is a political solution. after seven years, there is certainly no doubt: there is no military solution to the war. the only way to end this conflict is through the intra-syrian talks in geneva, between the syrian parties, under the leadership of the united nations. now more than ever, it is time to invest all our work, all our convening power, all our political capital, to push the syrian parties towards the negotiating table and finally start meaningful negotiations; not just talks for the sake of talks, but meaningful negotiations. this was the message that i delivered just the day before yesterday in saudi arabia, where i had the honour to open the annual summit of the arab league and where i also had the opportunity to meet the un special envoy, staffan de mistura, with whom i spoke at length about the current situation and how to relaunch the political process. i also had the chance there to discuss and share with all the leaders of the region not only our analysis, but also the need for a renewed regional effort in order to try to put an end to the war in syria through a political process. next week, exactly one week from now, all the relevant international and regional players will gather for the second brussels conference on the future of syria and the region, which i will have the honour and the responsibility to chair, together with the united nations. this brussels conference was planned long ago. we had a ministerial preparatory meeting as far back as september at the margins of the un general assembly. it will be even more relevant today in the current circumstances because it is the first huge international event that gathers different players that are, let’s say, on different sides in this war, and the eu-un co-chairmanship is obviously an excellent opportunity to try to build a path towards a political solution. we will make full use of the conference to do just that: to shift the focus now to diplomacy and peace-making. with no meaningful un-led political talks, it is only a matter of time before the next military escalation comes. the risk of splitting the country into zones of influence is increasing by the day. the geneva talks represent the only path that can lead towards a peaceful, united, independent and truly democratic syria, in all its diversity. at the brussels conference we will have over 80 delegations around the table, as i said, with very different positions among themselves. i see this as an opportunity to collectively and consistently commit to stopping the violence and supporting the geneva process. we want to bring together – it will not be easy, but nor will it be impossible – those who have leverage not just on the syrian parties, as we always mention – in part because on the syrian opposition we have the leverage ourselves and we have been working with them and we continue to work with them day by day –, but mainly those who have leverage on the syrian regime, which so far has not committed seriously to the political talks in geneva. it has not entered into the mechanism and the dynamic of negotiation. those who have leverage will work together towards new and meaningful intra-syrian talks under the auspices of the un. i am also proud of one thing that i believe this parliament will understand very well. we will host at the conference hundreds of delegates from syrian civil society groups – syrians – women and men, most of them coming from inside syria. i know that some may think that this is a marginal issue, that it is even something nice to say, something naive, that as war is going on it is a sort of distraction, but these are the real people on the ground who are experiencing the suffering of the war. they are also what i would call the everyday syrian heroes. they are incredibly precious for the country and its future because syria will not be taken out of the conflict or be reconstructed in the sense of building the country a democratic future if the international community, starting with the european union, does not invest in those syrians that want to build a democratic, peaceful and united country. the future of syria lies – and this is a minor detail that the international community tends to forget –and has to lie only in the hands of the syrian people and no one else. it is not a chessboard. it is a country with people and citizens, and we want to bring the voices, the faces, the hopes, the dreams, but also the ideas and the aspirations of the syrian people to the stage. that is democracy. that is the way we intend it. we believe it will have to be up to them to decide on the new institutions of the country, to make them inclusive, democratic, and, at the end of the day, make sure that every syrian man, woman and child, beyond ethnicity, faith and political or social background, everyone will have the right to feel protected, safe, welcome, and at home in the syria of the future. many people ask about preconditions – who has to step back or forwards, one step in or out. the real answer, which is borne of pragmatism, from our side, is this: we need a political process that guarantees that every single syrian inside the country, including those that are currently outside of the country, can feel at home in the syria of the future. that is it. that is what the political process in geneva should guarantee. what we can do as europe, as the international community, is to invest all our resources, to move from a context of never-ending escalation on the ground, which is repeating itself cyclically, to one of true political negotiations. it is not easy, otherwise it would probably have been successful long ago, it is not easy, but we will work on this in brussels next week, on renewing our humanitarian pledges, which are essential and vital, on the resilience of the syrian people, and on the only way to make our humanitarian work sustainable, which is to unlock the geneva talks. this is what we are working on every single day with the united nations, and this is what we will try to deliver in brussels next week.
on behalf of the ppe group i think that this parliament would be wrong to focus its debate today on this 'surgical intervention', as president macron described it this morning, on its legitimacy or not. in any case, it is a well-established fact that the syrian regime has used chemical weapons against its own people. the real debate, apart from the horrible humanitarian crisis, is whether we are facing a new episode - as the un secretary-general has said - of the cold war. the withdrawal of the united states, the electoral processes in france and germany, the referendum in the united kingdom, the support for the separatist movements in spain, all make it clear that we are facing a new scenario and a new configuration of threats: cyberterrorism, nuclear proliferation, the increase in the arms race, mass poisoning on social networks. mr. president, syria is the biggest failure of the international community, and that questions us about ourselves and our role in the world. it is important to know, madam high representative, whether the member states have a strategy for dealing with this conflict in syria, apart, of course, from the objective of supporting the efforts of the special envoy of the un secretary-general. you, madam high representative, have made a great effort in launching the union's defence policy. we cannot provide security for our citizens today without laying the foundations of a defence policy. there is no time to lose and we wish him luck in his endeavours and in the brussels conference.
mr president, there are still many doubts. true, but there are also certainties. for example: we are absolutely certain that if someone is losing the war it is the syrian people, that is certain. and it is also certain that if anyone has the possibility of rebuilding syria and of reconciling syria among syrians it is the syrian people. that's two things for sure. i see many colleagues here with great capacity for espionage and intelligence. but in any case, what we have, what the european union has, is politics. it's not the military. it's not an exercise of military force. we are in politics; we have been since the beginning, with many difficulties, it is true, but what we do is politics. and the measured response that the united states, britain and france have given, with all their doubts - has been explained here today by president macron - does not seem to be going to change the course of the war, of course. so it's up to us again to do politics, diplomacy, the exercise of the power that we have, if we act in a coordinated way, to talk to the russians and to get the parties to sit down, because there will be no other way to peace in syria than that. and in the meantime, of course, we have to draw the line, as we did with the attack on al-assad. but it is also true that it is worth remembering how the red lines are brake and that probably has not been done well. i think we have to spend the energy, the budget, the strength of our competition when we are united to open a path, not of dialogue - as the high representative has said - but of concrete and direct negotiation. that is the purpose of the force which president macron has presented here today and also the force which the european union can develop in a coordinated way behind the efforts which i, as always, welcome and congratulate on the part of the high representative, mrs mogherini.
mr president, on april 14 the world witnessed a military aggression against a sovereign country, a unilateral attack outside international law. there was no authorization from the security council and no legitimate defence; that is to say, under international law, we are dealing with a criminal act defined as a crime against peace; it is also illegal under national law, since the parliaments were not consulted. what has the european union done, which according to its treaties is required to promote peace and to observe strict respect for international law and the charter of the united nations? on the contrary, that's what he did. it was sympathetic to this aggression; it was complacent with the action of this new "quartet of the azores": the pathetic trio, the trio of thugs who have acted as accusers, judges and executioners. the european union - without waiting for proof, without waiting for the opcw's investigative work - gave credence to the propaganda of supposedly humanitarian organisations that coexist with the terrorists who kill in syria, but also in madrid, paris, barcelona and brussels. sad and unworthy behavior.
mr. chairman, i want to support the views of my colleagues here. it is clear that this case, this incident of the two detained soldiers, shows how the relationship between the eu and turkey is deteriorating and how turkey is no longer aligning its values with the eu. today, it's no longer a democratic country, it's an authoritarian country, where the president rules with his authoritarian style of government. the judiciary is in the interests of the state, it is not independent and we must act on this matter and i join my colleagues here who say that the eu's response must be unequivocal, we must not turn a blind eye to this. i want to say that the czech republic also has a specific problem with the judiciary in turkey. two czech citizens, markéta všelichová and miroslav farkas, were also detained for political reasons and were sentenced by the turkish judiciary for essentially political reasons. so this is not a problem of one member state, but of the european union as a whole.
mr president, as secretary-general of the european people's party and as a spanish mep, i would like to express my full solidarity with my colleagues and with the people of greece and also cyprus, who are not free these days from the kind of interventions we are unfortunately discussing today in this debate. and, of course, the fate of these two greek soldiers is the fate of any european soldier. they are european soldiers in the task of defending our borders, and our solidarity goes beyond that: if they are not released in time and in a proper manner, measures must be taken against the ankara regime. a few words to my cypriot friends. president nicos anastasiades is holding negotiations, and yet the closure and, once again, the obstructions by ankara are preventing that solution. i believe that europeans - and i as a spaniard - must express this solidarity with our greek and cypriot friends.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this has been a very useful exchange and i thank the honourable members for their interventions. from this debate, i personally conclude that we all share a common wish, but also a common duty to secure a swift and positive outcome for the two detained soldiers. at the same time, allow me to speak in my mother tongue in order to inform our compatriots, my compatriots, about our humanitarian assistance towards refugees in turkey. κανένα σεντ, κανένα ευρώ από την ανθρωπιστική βοήθεια που δίνεται στους πρόσφυγες στην τουρκία δεν πάει στον τουρκικό κράτος! αυτό το δηλώνω κατηγορηματικά ως επίτροπος για την ανθρωπιστική βοήθεια. οτιδήποτε άλλο είναι εκτός πραγματικότητας!
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, let me thank the chair of the committee on foreign affairs, mr mcallister, and the rapporteur, ms schaake, for this important report and good collaboration over the past months. let me first share a few reflections on the mid-term review and the instruments covered by the report. i fully concur with the report’s findings that our instruments are generally fit for purpose, but have been stretched to their limits in the past years. in particular, the european neighbourhood instrument has been a pivotal tool to force reforms in our neighbourhood. at the same time, as the report notes, the challenges that we have faced in the neighbourhood have shown the need for greater financial resources and more flexibility. the instrument for pre-accession assistance is unique in addressing the objective of preparing candidate countries and potential candidates for eu membership. the next instrument for pre-accession should be clearly positioned in the context of the new western balkan strategy. the mid-term review concluded that our instrument contributing to stability and peace was relevant, effective, and efficient and had a unique added value, and we fully agree. the european instrument for democracy and human rights promotes some of our core values in a challenging global context. we have witnessed increased pressure on human rights defenders and closing spaces for civil society in many countries. we intend to enhance our support to human rights defenders even more in the coming years and continue our work on eu election observations. finally, the partnership instrument is a young instrument that has helped us invest in the european union’s soft power, where and when we needed it the most. in the next three years we want to focus it on some priorities, such as economic diplomacy, climate, health, peace and security, and digital issues including cybersecurity. let me come to the future architecture. i would like to reflect on the lessons from the mid-term review that guide our thinking for the proposal we will soon publish. first, the volume of external action funding needs to match our political ambitions. to deliver on our ambitions we need adequate financial resources. second, too often we have had to adapt our policies to our instruments. it is time that we adapt our instruments to our political priorities. this is why we have proposed merging our development and foreign policy instruments into one broad instrument covering neighbourhood as well as development and international cooperation. third, one broad instrument does not mean one single policy. it does not mean less funding for certain regions or themes. there will be clear funding dedicated to each policy area in order to reflect our political priorities. fourth, we need more flexibility and more responsiveness. our aim is also to set aside a significant share of unallocated funds. this will allow us to react to changing circumstances without diverting funds from other policies. we want – and we agree with the report on this – to make the eu budget more accountable, more transparent and understandable to the public. that includes, as announced yesterday, bringing the european development fund inside the budget, as this would significantly enhance parliamentary scrutiny. finally, it should be easier to work for the security of our citizens and partners. for this reason, the high representative has proposed setting up a european peace facility to finance missions and capacity building as an off-budget funding mechanism. let me conclude by saying that our debates on budgets should finally focus on our citizens’ priorities, instead of focusing simply on instruments. we would like our conversation to be driven by the great issues of our times, from migration to the situation in syria, from security to africa’s development.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, as an alternative rapporteur for the ppe group i had the opportunity to coordinate my group's vision on a vital issue for the european union's foreign policy. i would like to thank and acknowledge the work done by my colleague marietje schaake, who has undoubtedly helped a great deal to get the text we are voting on tomorrow in this house. the effectiveness of the european union's external financing instruments is fundamental if we are to ensure that the european union has the necessary tools to implement its global, neighbourhood and enlargement policy. what we are discussing today is not just the mid-term review of these instruments, but also the recommendation for the new architecture from 2020 onwards: what needs to be changed or optimized in these instruments so that they can continue to do the important work they do in our foreign policy. i would like to emphasize three points. the current external relations budget is only 6% of the multiannual financial framework. however, with that amount the european union has achieved considerable successes in our external relations, from a successful agreement with turkey to stem migration flows to the minsk agreements to achieve stability and peace in ukraine. secondly, we must stress the importance of having specific instruments for specific aspects of our international agenda. the specific funding for our neighbourhood policy instruments must be secured. the european neighbourhood instrument is the most effective way to influence migration, security, economic development and better governance of our strategic partners who are geographically closer to us. i don't have time left.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i welcome ms schaake’s report, especially when it comes to reviewing the current external financing instruments, underlining the need to align them with the sustainable development goals and proposing some improvements. when it comes to making proposals on the post—2020 architecture, we are not so enthusiastic. we know – and we have just heard once again – that ms mogherini and the commission are working on a major overhaul of this architecture, merging the existing financing instruments, including the development cooperation instrument, the human rights and democracy instrument and the instrument contributing to stability and peace into a unified single instrument. until today, we have not heard – beyond the rather empty argument of simplification – of any good reason why all these important thematic tools of the union should disappear and be merged. on the contrary, the recent mid—term review conducted by the commission has just confirmed that these instruments are fit for purpose and, in the case of the instrument for stability and peace, ‘a key tool for the eu to underpin its diplomacy and tailor—made projects’. this mid—term review also stresses in its conclusions that this capacity ‘must be further strengthened in any future architecture’. we acknowledge that the new structure should be more rational and more flexible. we even acknowledge that there is room for merging some external-action and some development-cooperation instruments, but we stress the importance of maintaining separate instruments for enlargement, neighbourhood policy, development, human rights and democracy, civilian conflict prevention and civilian crisis response.
madam president, i thought i had a minute and a half. in any case, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs schaake, for the work she has presented to us on a subject which is of great importance. the european union, as has been mentioned here, is mobilising eur 52 billion in the financial perspective, a very important part of which is covered by the so-called external policy instruments. commissioner, you have just reminded us that they do not depart substantially from the fundamental axes of the 2030 agenda, the addis ababa action programme and the objectives of the paris conference, but it is clear - and the rapporteur has told us this - that these funds need adjustment. i take advantage of your presence here, commissioner, to take an interest in the development cooperation instrument (dci), the instrument you manage, and the problems facing the countries which have already graduated. in any case, if i were to underline a fundamental element of the report presented by mrs schaake, it would be flexibility. it is clear that we must be vigilant to take account of the new threats and the new configuration of our relations and try to have more agile, more flexible and, above all, more effective instruments at the service of the interests and values of the european union.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate mrs schaake on her comprehensive report. in this globalised, complex and interdependent world, we need robust external action by the european union: we cannot retreat, but must look beyond the union's borders. this outward projection requires funding. the union must be a provider of peace, development, democratic reforms, stability and integration, in particular in its immediate neighbourhood. in the review of the regulations which will begin shortly, it is precisely our neighbourhood instrument that needs to be reformed. we need a realistic and ambitious neighbourhood policy that meets the needs and ambitions of our partners without compromising our principles, values and interests. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's position in favour of maintaining this specific neighbourhood instrument in architecture after 2020: we must make it clear that we are still interested in promoting this neighbourhood policy as set out in article 8 of the treaty on european union. i also support maintaining the current balance in the allocation of funds between the southern and eastern neighbourhoods, as stated in the report we will be adopting tomorrow. i will not repeat the importance of the security dimension and also the migration issue. in the dialogue and cooperation with our neighbours, these matters must be high on the agenda. i'm finished. the european union must be efficient; we must show that it is also a provider of security and able to contribute effectively to the management of migration flows. we are witnessing the rise of populist and eurosceptic forces in europe in recent years: an effective european union will take away their arguments.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i thank the honourable members for this debate. the commission will publish its proposal for the next mff on 2 may. we are looking forward to an intensive exchange and negotiations with parliament thereafter. this would be a true opportunity to fully justify the background to the commission’s proposals, as well as to address and clarify some of the concerns flagged in the report and in the debates today. let me conclude by reiterating that simplification is not an end in itself. it will enable us to become more coherent, exploit complementarities, create synergies, overcome fragmentation and silo approaches and reduce artificial boundaries and inconsistencies between instruments. with the new architecture, we intend to make our cooperation more efficient and effective. in this manner, we will also make the eu visible as a major global actor.
the rapporteur. madam president, we are debating in this house today the approval of the framework agreement between the european union and australia. the recommendation on the agreement and the report accompanying it received broad support in the committee on foreign affairs a few weeks ago. i expect the plenary to back it up tomorrow. but first i would like to thank the political group alternate rapporteurs for their cooperation. and i also thank the european external action service for its collaboration in the preparation of the report on this framework agreement. i will now highlight some aspects of the agreement and of relations between the european union and australia. the relationship is very solid, based on many historical links, common values and principles. there is, yes, a physical, geographical distance, but there is a great political and values proximity. australia is, so to speak, a natural ally of the european union in that vast asia-pacific space, which is very dynamic and increasingly important in today's world. in the 2017 foreign policy white paper, the australian government underlined the vital importance of relations with the european union. these relations have been growing in recent years, as is shown by this framework agreement, the leaders' forum and the first contacts already made with a view to negotiating a free trade agreement. in addition, we agree on many of the high-level dialogue mechanisms that take place in the asia-pacific. on the bilateral level, i stress the importance of launching negotiations on a free trade agreement. australia is a country that believes in free trade in the face of unfortunately rising protectionism. we have a growing trade and economic relationship in which the european union enjoys a large surplus. the other areas of dialogue and cooperation established by the agreement are numerous, for example: foreign and security policy, human rights, economy and trade, education, culture, research, innovation, energy, transport, justice and global challenges such as terrorism, climate change, weapons of mass destruction, global governance or development. australia is indeed a major regional player and also a very active member of global bodies addressing these global challenges. for example, he was recently on the security council, now on the united nations human rights council, and he is also a member of the g20 since its founding and has chaired it in 2014. australia is also represented in a number of regional and subregional organisations in asia-pacific. i would also like to stress its alignment with the european union's positions on sanctions against russia, north korea and syria. i would also mention its participation in operations against daesh and its numerous peacekeeping missions to the un. it is also present in the so-called combined maritime forces, in operations against piracy and terrorism in the western indian ocean. the framework agreement also provides for cooperation on other major global and regional challenges. i am referring, for example, to climate change, to migration and to the problem of development, all of which are dealt with in the resolution we are voting on tomorrow. finally, the positions of the european union and australia on the international scene and the challenges of our time are often the same. australia, like the european union, is also a player committed to global governance based on international law and multilateralism, which we also want to preserve. it also supports free trade, development aid and the fight against terrorism. the european union wants to be increasingly present in the asian regional forums; its positions are very similar to those of australia, and i therefore trust that australia will cooperate closely with the european union in these forums and make every effort to ensure that it fits in fully in all of them, including the so-called east asia summit. in this large and complex asia-pacific region, australia is a country very close to our values and interests; it is necessary to continue strengthening these relations and precisely for this purpose the framework agreement will be a very useful instrument. i hope that the support for the recommendation on the agreement and the accompanying report will remain very high.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, thank you for the opportunity for this debate on the eu—australia framework agreement. the agreement reflects our wish to give a modern framework to relations with one of the eu’s closest partners in the asia—pacific region. it will allow the promotion and expansion of our cooperation with australia across a broad range of areas of mutual interest. eu relations with australia are excellent and i sincerely believe that they will continue to evolve further. we are geographically very far apart but we work together on a daily basis on the global stage. our cooperation on foreign policy has been constant and intense. just to name a recent example, australia has shown great solidarity in condemning the salisbury attack and took concrete actions in response to it. we take part in the same military missions to preserve peace and security around the world and we particularly appreciate australia’s participation in our operation off the coast of the horn of africa. we also have good development cooperation, especially in the pacific, focusing on sustainable development, economic growth and gender equality. we are incredibly like—minded and, as a consequence, political dialogue with australia has been intensifying and an ever—increasing number of political contacts have taken place over the past years. in 2016, we launched the eu—australia leadership forum, a unique platform for european and australian political business, media and civil society leaders to meet and nurture the relationship with new ideas and proposals. in 2008, the eu and australia signed a partnership framework, which opened new avenues for cooperation. we also hold a regular security dialogue at senior official level. the signing of our framework agreement last summer by high representative mogherini and foreign minister bishop came as a natural evolution of our partnership. our framework agreement makes our relationship fit for the 21st century. the european union and australia share the same world view. we support democracy, the rule of law and human rights and we are active players in multilateral organisations such as the united nations and the world trade organization. we have also shared interests in tackling key global challenges, such as sustainable development, humanitarian aid and the fight against terrorism. we work together against climate change and to better manage migration. we both want international trade to be free and fair at the same time. eu—australia cooperation in the pacific is growing. we have many shared interests in sustainable energy, climate change and ocean governance. we are also looking into how to associate like—minded donors, like australia, in the post—cotonou process. to complete the advancing political relationship, we have decided to work towards launching negotiations for a free trade agreement. we have gone through a number of important stages of the preparatory process. the commission has carried out an impact assessment and held free trade agreement (fta) co—opening discussions with australia. the draft directives for negotiating the free trade agreement were published by the commission in september. the discussions in the council are ongoing. the european parliament has fed into these deliberations with a dedicated report adopted at the end of october. i trust that the council will adopt the negotiating directives soon, enabling the commission to launch the free trade agreement negotiations before the summer. the commission looks forward to continuing cooperation with the parliament in this matter.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, i thought i was going to retire for another half minute. i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr millan, for his report, which, as always, presents us with a serious and rigorous body of work, and which also comes at a very opportune time in our calendar. this morning we were discussing with the president of france, mr macron, the need for the european union to have reliable partners on the political table to deal with global challenges... the commissioner was referring just now to global governance, to its participation - as the rapporteur reminded us just now - in the g20, to the fight against terrorism, to the issue of migration or climate change. australia has also been seriously committed to a very close defence relationship with the united states, as the report states, and also has an excellent relationship on its continent and with other countries, such as china. so, madam president, it is very important, not only in the political but also in the economic sphere, to develop a relationship with a country which believes in the advantages of free trade, which is an asset within the world organization and which, as the rapporteur has pointed out, has a very important relationship with us, amounting to more than 45 billion in annual trade. we therefore understand that this agreement places relations between australia and the european union in the first division of relations with the european union, and we hope that the same success as this report by the committee on foreign affairs, i am sure, will have in the house tomorrow.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i welcome the conclusion of the eu-australia framework agreement and also mr millán mon’s report. this agreement will strengthen the relationship between two partners who are geographically distant, but close to each other in terms of values and mind-sets. the report points out the most important areas where this partnership should deliver. we particularly welcome the renewed alliance to promote peace, sustainable development and fight against climate change, good governance and human rights. on human rights, i would like to make two comments. firstly, we acknowledge the progress made by australia in the protection of the rights of the aboriginal people, but we encourage our partner to do more in order to involve them in policy-making and consultation processes. secondly, we are critical of australia’s asylum policies. many refugee advocates and international agencies consider them to be too punitive. we call on both the eu member states, especially those who consider australia’s approach to be the solution to the european refugee crisis, and the australian government, to place human rights at the heart of migration management. finally, it is surely nothing new to you that my group does not support the opening of yet more bilateral fta negotiations. we prefer to stick to the multilateral framework.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, this has been a very useful exchange and i thank the rapporteur, mr millán mon, and the honourable members for their interventions. i greatly appreciate the discussion and your interest in the eu—australia framework agreement. this debate has shown strong support for the strengthening of eu—australia relations through this agreement. although the european union and australia are geographically distant – they are distant places indeed – our dialogue and cooperation has never been so close as today. this new agreement gives us the chance to consolidate our achievements and advance on a range of issues relevant to the challenges of our time, to the benefit of both sides. we are ready to implement the agreement and we hope for continued support from the european parliament for our bilateral relations with australia.
the rapporteur. madam president, thank you all for your interest in this matter and also thank you in particular for the kind words that some of you have addressed to my work. i think there is a broad convergence of views, a majority, though not unanimous, support for the framework agreement with australia and also for the resolution accompanying parliament's approval of the agreement. i would like to conclude my remarks on this matter with three or four considerations. firstly, the eu-australia relationship is very strong in all respects and we must continue to strengthen it. the framework agreement will contribute to this, and i would also like, as you know, to see the free trade agreement, the negotiations on which have not yet begun, concluded as soon as possible. we will thus have two great pillars to support the relationship: the political and the economic. and i think that in the report we are going to adopt tomorrow this trade issue is dealt with in a balanced way and that it should be a mutually beneficial relationship, without ignoring the challenge posed by australia's importance as an agricultural exporter. but let us not forget that the european union is also a major exporter of agri-foodstuffs. second consideration: we are natural allies, as i often say. this proximity of principles, values and interests allows us to cooperate closely in tackling global and regional challenges. i am thinking of development aid, the fight against terrorism, and we must also emphasize once again australia's alignment with european positions on sanctions against russia or north korea. secondly, if the european union - third consideration - wants to be a global player, it must be increasingly present in the asia-pacific region, and as a natural ally in these forums we have australia. the new scenario of brexit has been evoked here. i think this is the time to deepen relations with australia. brexit should be a spur, a stimulus to strengthen our positions there, and not the other way around. i would like to thank everyone for their cooperation and i hope that the agreement with australia will be adopted by the widest possible consensus tomorrow. the convergence of views which i have seen today once again gives me reason to be optimistic about tomorrow's vote. thank you all, again.
mr president, i would first of all like to make a complaint, because it does not seem logical to me that in this parliament, in a debate with the presidents of the european commission and the council present, this is so empty. there are not even 40 members present and that is a disgrace to this house. having said that, and having made this formal complaint to the president, and i know that he certainly thinks the same as i do, i want to express my concern for the citizens of my country, for the situation of the financial cuts and in this case to convey all the movements that are in relation to pensions. we are talking about financial investments, we are talking about all these conditionalities of european funds, but we also have to talk about secret meetings of the international monetary fund with the council to put more pressure on spain to cut pensions further. mr tusk can confirm that?
mr president, yesterday the president of the french republic, mr macron, proposed the creation of european sovereignty and i cannot agree more with this idea: we need european sovereignty to make the most of the positive effects of globalisation, to combat the negative ones, to preserve and update the european social model, to fight against tax evasion and social dumping. but we also need this sovereignty for something else: to ensure that fundamental civil and political rights are effectively respected throughout the union and to intervene when there are states which depart from these fundamental rights and the union's founding values; and also to intervene and help find a political and democratic solution to complex conflicts which are developing within the union and which neither the courts nor repression are going to resolve. mr juncker, mr tusk, mr tajani: be courageous, show leadership, show us that you are at the forefront of a political europe and help to find a political solution to the conflict between catalonia and spain through dialogue.
mr president, president tusk, key debate in the european parliament, council conclusions and yet we have heard very low-profile, routine speeches. back to normal? i'm not at all. it is simply a matter of avoiding the thorny issues of each of the issues that have been discussed. in turkey: the greek prisoners, illegally detained. in the digital agenda: how to get the giants of the net to pay taxes. the social pact: how the council can unblock it. and above all, in the tax pact: to achieve at once a harmonization of corporate taxation. the most striking thing is the total absence of the migration issue, having passionately debated as we did yesterday the global compact, denied by president trump and, within the european union, by the member states of the european union; as of turkey, with the absence of legal pathways for a safe migration route and ignoring the requirement of humanitarian visas.
president of the european commission. the commission is not a few brief concluding remarks: i listened carefully to mr giegold, as i always do, including what he said about the rule of law review procedures. i very much agree with him and would point out that when we presented the western balkans strategy on 6 february this year we announced that we would be presenting an initiative in october to strengthen the rule of law enforcement capacity. we shall do so, and i am glad that we now have the support of parliament. as regards the future western balkans strategy, i would like to say that i am convinced - as president macron said yesterday - that we must deepen the european union and accelerate integration before any further accessions. i am thinking - this is not new - that we should use the article in the treaty which says that the european council can decide unanimously which areas of the european union's competence should be decided by qualified majority in the future. it's the only way. it is rightly said today in some german newspapers that the european union as it now functions will not be able to continue to function if there are further accessions. we are therefore all called upon to ensure that all possible initiatives are taken on the basis of existing treaty articles to make the european union more assertive and decisive. as regards the greek officers who have been detained in turkey, i should like to point out that during the press conference in varna after the summit with turkey, in the presence of mr erdoğan, i made it clear that we would not accept this and expressed the wish that these two men, who were not guilty of any wrongdoing, should be released before the orthodox easter celebrations. it is ridiculous to say that two greek officers who have actually got lost in the border area are a danger to turkey. this is absolutely ridiculous, and i don't accept it. as far as social europe is concerned, the social pillar will be slowly but surely implemented. we are in the process of doing so. we have made this clear in the field of the posting of workers directive, also with the help of the european parliament. as far as brexit is concerned answering a question by mr henkel i would like to draw your attention to the fact that, in a previous debate in this house, president tusk and myself were offering to britain to review the decision britain has taken. the answer from london was нет, as the british are saying.
president of the european council. – mr president, just two remarks. first, the commission is in dialogue with the polish government, as you know, and everybody is hoping – or at least i am hoping – for positive changes in poland and in polish legislation. this is why i do not foresee for now a discussion on this issue at the european council in june. i trust the commission here. i feel shocked but, for the first time, i must agree with mr farage. you are right, mr farage, brexit will not bring any good to anyone. mr kamall said that free trade with japan and singapore is one of the priorities and that we should treat free trade with the uk – i mean our future free trade agreement with the uk – in the same way. the only problem is that we are strengthening and easing trade and other relations with japan and singapore, while brexit is, by nature, by definition, about weakening and worsening trade and everything else. this is why i think it is difficult to compare these two different issues.
in writing. we are one year away from the next european elections and we need, once and for all, a blueprint for the future of the eu and the means to achieve it. unfortunately, the european council's failure to respond to the challenges facing the union is evident. in migration: how to ensure legal pathways for a safe migration route. in the eurozone: how to provide a fiscal capacity to invest in job creation. in the digital agenda: how to get the giants of the net to pay taxes. the social pact: how the council can unblock it. and above all, in the tax pact: how to achieve corporate tax harmonization once it has been achieved. the next challenge will be the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework from 2020 onwards. of course we need to address the new needs of our external action. but not by sacrificing the cap and cohesion policy, which must remain priority areas. if the european agenda does not leave its paralysed state, nationalist and populist forces will continue to gain ground. we therefore need a union capable of bringing european solutions to the european citizens.
in writing. we are one year away from the next european elections and we need, once and for all, a blueprint for the future of the eu and the means to achieve it. unfortunately, the european council's failure to respond to the challenges facing the union is evident. in migration: how to ensure legal pathways for a safe migration route. in the eurozone: how to provide a fiscal capacity to invest in job creation. in the digital agenda: how to get the giants of the net to pay taxes. the social pact: how the council can unblock it. and above all, in the tax pact: how to achieve corporate tax harmonization once it has been achieved. the next challenge will be the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework from 2020 onwards. of course we need to address the new needs of our external action. but not by sacrificing the cap and cohesion policy, which must remain priority areas. if the european agenda does not leave its paralysed state, nationalist and populist forces will continue to gain ground. we therefore need a union capable of bringing european solutions to the european citizens.
in writing. we are one year away from the next european elections and we need, once and for all, a blueprint for the future of the eu and the means to achieve it. unfortunately, the european council's failure to respond to the challenges facing the union is evident. in migration: how to ensure legal pathways for a safe migration route. in the eurozone: how to provide a fiscal capacity to invest in job creation. in the digital agenda: how to get the giants of the net to pay taxes. the social pact: how the council can unblock it. and above all, in the tax pact: how to achieve corporate tax harmonization once it has been achieved. the next challenge will be the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework from 2020 onwards. of course we need to address the new needs of our external action. but not by sacrificing the cap and cohesion policy, which must remain priority areas. if the european agenda does not leave its paralysed state, nationalist and populist forces will continue to gain ground. we therefore need a union capable of bringing european solutions to the european citizens.
in writing. we are one year away from the next european elections and we need, once and for all, a blueprint for the future of the eu and the means to achieve it. unfortunately, the european council's failure to respond to the challenges facing the union is evident. in migration: how to ensure legal pathways for a safe migration route. in the eurozone: how to provide a fiscal capacity to invest in job creation. in the digital agenda: how to get the giants of the net to pay taxes. the social pact: how the council can unblock it. and above all, in the tax pact: how to achieve corporate tax harmonization once it has been achieved. the next challenge will be the negotiation of the multiannual financial framework from 2020 onwards. of course we need to address the new needs of our external action. but not by sacrificing the cap and cohesion policy, which must remain priority areas. if the european agenda does not leave its paralysed state, nationalist and populist forces will continue to gain ground. we therefore need a union capable of bringing european solutions to the european citizens.
madam president, i just wanted to say before the debate begins - because it has nothing to do with the debate itself - that i object to the time allotted to this debate: it is not possible that the work of a whole year of all members - not only the rapporteurs, who will be able to speak, but also the alternative rapporteurs - with so much effort, can be summed up, in the case of my group, in a single minute in the debate. i ask you - and i take advantage of the fact that the secretary-general is here - that this should not happen again; that the alternative rapporteurs, who have been working for a whole year with all the audiences, etc., should have as much time as possible at their disposal to be able to intervene in this debate. i think they deserve it, we deserve it, and of course the european union, in this exercise of control, also deserves it. i therefore ask you not to allow this situation to recur.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr oettinger, and in particular mr lehne and mr lazarou of the court of auditors, and also minister panayotova of the council. of course, this is a full debate. my group, i have to say, is in favour of approving the management of the european budget for 2016 in the framework of two new ones: a good one and a bad one. the good news is that for the first time in more than 20 years - almost a quarter of a century, i should say - the court of auditors, which analyses and audits all the accounts of all the bodies implementing the european budget, has recognised - with a not unfavourable declaration of assurance - the daily improvement work of a european administration which strives to obtain the greatest added value from every euro of the budget entrusted to it by its citizens. it is a tribute to the thousands of european officials and employees in every corner of the globe and also in brussels, luxembourg and strasbourg. for their sake and because of the success of the court of auditors, we shall vote in favour. the bad news is that, because of the clumsy and very unfortunate management of a restructuring of directors-general and the surprise replacement of a secretary-general by the chief of staff of the president of the commission, the need to change outdated or even non-existent rules for a better institutional or interinstitutional approach to parliament and to finally review the appointment made in the light of the new rules is in the spotlight today. on the other hand, we can only say that we regret that we cannot approve the management of the council - we hope that with the bulgarian presidency and the next one we can get back on track - and we cannot approve the management of the easo agency, which we so badly need, and with which we certainly intend to work to be able to do so before the end of the year.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, the news that cambridge analytica used facebook profiles to perform targeted political messaging has led to a loss of trust all over the world. people are concerned about the security of the personal data they share on social networks and digital platforms. in order to find out whether facebook and cambridge analytica breached data protection rules, enforcement authorities are investigating. at eu level, the article 29 committee, which gathers the data protection authorities of the member states, is following the developments closely. at the political level, the concerns are real and are being taken seriously. you can see that in the conclusions of the european council of 22 and 23 march. it has also led commissioner jourová to demand further clarification from facebook about the extent to which eu citizens were affected. the debate here today gives another political signal from the european union that we are worried. i am grateful that you have asked the presidency to participate in your discussion on ‘data protection and citizen’s privacy as a line of defence against election manipulation’. the facebook and cambridge analytica case touches the heart of the eu’s core principles. the rights to protection of personal data and privacy are enshrined in the european charter on fundamental rights. those rights are the basis for the new eu data protection rules laid down in the general data protection regulation, which will become applicable in a few weeks. the gdpr will help to protect personal data in the european union, as it empowers persons to more easily find out what personal data companies hold about them and for what purposes such data are processed. furthermore, the gdpr provides for the possibility for data protection authorities to impose high fines. this will discipline companies to comply with the rules. finally, the gdpr provides for a consistency mechanism. this ensures that the national data protection authorities coordinate amongst each other their decisions so that the european union speaks with a single voice. the facebook and cambridge analytica case poses a lot of other fundamental questions than data protection: how can we protect democratic elections in times of massive digital disinformation or manipulation? in october 2017, the council held its annual rule of law dialogue on the topic ‘media pluralism and the rule of law in the digital age’. ministers agreed that free, reliable and pluralistic media underpin effective democracy, while digital disinformation on a massive scale has the potential to undermine it. in this context, we have all seen the recent, but very timely, opinion of the european data protection supervisor on online manipulation and personal data. the facebook and cambridge analytica case has brought to the fore the importance of protecting personal data and privacy. the european union has already recognised that importance in its new data protection rules, which provide tools to protect personal data in an effective manner. the silver lining of this case is that adequate data protection is getting the political attention it deserves in other parts of the world as well. however, well-functioning data protection rules do not provide the full answer against manipulating elections. other measures going beyond data protection are also necessary for safeguarding the rule of law and democracy. new challenges to the rule of law and human rights, such as increased levels of disinformation, have to be counterbalanced by increased levels of media literacy. current legislation is deemed to be sufficient in broad terms, but it must be better applied and supported by flanking measures, such as fact-checking websites, voluntary codes of conduct and intensified cooperation with service providers. this is already in place in several countries, as well as at eu level. let us use the protests about facebook and cambridge analytica to advance the thinking on these fundaments of our societies. in that context, it is very opportune that, on 16 may, our leaders will discuss the need for transparent practices and full protection of privacy and personal data on the part of social networks and digital platforms.
member of the commission. – mr president, your initiative to have a plenary debate on this topic is very welcome. this case is too important to treat as business as usual. it is up to all of us to draw the right lessons from this facebook-cambridge analytica scandal. there is work ongoing on three aspects of this scandal. first, personal data. up to 2.7 million europeans could have been affected by this scandal. second, broader effects on our democratic processes, elections included. third, the criminal aspects of the case. i would like to share with you some details about the different aspects. let me start with data protection. it has been said that the way we deal with privacy is the defining fundamental rights issue of our time. the facebook-cambridge analytica case shows that protection of personal data can have a major impact on our democracy and on our elections. in this house, you have known the importance of these issues for many years and have adopted the data protection package, the so-called the general data protection regulation, known under the acronym of gdpr. we europeans have got this right. we have foreseen that cases like this might happen and we wanted to be well-equipped. if there is one positive thing coming out of this crisis, it is the awareness about the importance of personal data protection that has been generated among ordinary citizens in europe and around the world. all around the world, democratic countries are now looking at gdpr for inspiration. the gdpr basically gives back control of personal data to the people. for instance, consent under the gdpr must be given by a clear and affirmative action and cannot be hidden among legalistic terms and conditions that nobody ever reads. otherwise, you have the right to take your data with you when moving to another provider. also, the gdpr reinforces the role of national protection authorities and gives them the possibility to impose quite dramatically high fines. the proposed e-privacy regulation further specifies the transparency requirements for browsers and apps, but aside from this positive effect, there is a serious situation which must be investigated and which must be prevented from occurring again. and let’s keep in mind that the gdpr is not in place yet, so we are assessing the facebook scandal against the currently existing laws. there is an investigation led by the uk’s data protection authority, the information commissioner’s office (ico). i am in close touch with the ico commissioner and i have expressed my full support in her work. i expect facebook to cooperate fully and at the highest level of the company. there is no time to be complacent about this. i am also in frequent contact with the chairwoman of the article 29 working party and the future chair of the european data protection board, ms andrea jelinek. all eu data protection authorities met in brussels last week, and i am pleased they decided to launch a dedicated working group to social media, not only facebook. on 25 may when gdpr becomes applicable, it is absolutely crucial that those business models that monitor huge amounts of our personal data are under full scrutiny. the time for leniency is over, and it is good that the data protection authorities are getting ready for it. i am fully confident that european enforcers will make sure that facebook fixes the mistakes and complies with the new data protection laws. now it is very important that we offer help to those almost three million citizens affected by the scandal. the data protection authorities issued information last week about how their interest is protected and what they can do to ensure better protection of their privacy. finally, i was directly in contact with facebook and i spoke to the chief operating officer, ms sheryl sandberg last week. i underlined that i expect facebook to provide more detailed information and to cooperate fully with the irish and british data protection authorities. we must better and fully understand not only what happened to the data of eu citizens, but what is going on with this date even now. of particular concern to me is the information to european citizens affected by the scandal. i was told that facebook has started to inform people last week. facebook also confirm that there could be more apps that harvested the personal data of users and those of their friends. i am also getting information from another source from the british ico. so i urged facebook to take all necessary steps to mitigate any potential negative consequences for users in the future. i have also advised ms sandberg that mr zuckerberg should accept the invitation of the european parliament to appear in front of the responsible committees, and vice-president ansip met with mr zuckerberg in silicon valley yesterday, and the facebook ceo reconfirmed his will to cooperate closely with the european authorities on rebuilding trust after this scandal. vice-president ansip referred to the invitation by the european parliament as a measure of rebuilding the trust. we also have to speak seriously about the impact this scandal might have on our democratic societies. by having access to personal information it seems that it was possible for various actors to micro-target citizens and help spread fake news and propaganda. and this was all done in the maze of digital reality with zero transparency and without any consent from the users. this scandal is a wake-up call for all of us to start a serious debate on what role social media plays today, and what role they should play in our elections in the future. traditional media are under very strict rules. social media largely cooperate without any limits in this respect. and to be absolutely clear, social media created unprecedented opportunities to engage in a political debate and communicate directly with millions of voters, but they also created opportunities for some actors to manipulate and abuse social media. the algorithms used in the business model of facebook or other companies may have facilitated the spreading of fake news and untruthful posts and reinforced so-called ‘filter bubbles’ and the antagonisation within this society. so we need to understand better what the current situation in europe is. organising elections is largely in the remit of the member states. however, as a commissioner responsible for union citizenship rights, i have invited the eu electoral authorities for a meeting at the end of april. i would like to hear from them how they handle social media and online advertising in their campaign rules. to that end, we have sent them a set of detailed questions in advance, so i hope i will get very concrete and clear answers on 25 april. i would like for all of us to act responsibly and not to jump the gun. our response should not only be about facebook. our response should take into account the wider implications of an unregulated internet. some steps have already been taken. as you might know, the commission has initiated a code of conduct on hate speech such as racism and xenophobia, which has shown good results. we adopted in february a recommendation on combating illegal content online. we will present next week a communication on how to tackle online disinformation, calling for more transparency, the promotion of diversity of information and credibility of information online. this will be a first opportunity to refer to the very first lessons to draw from the scandal in the official policy paper. we will also adopt a communication on artificial intelligence, which, among other actions, aims at debating and developing ethical principles in this respect. the commission is carrying out a pilot project requested by the european parliament on algorithmic awareness-building, which will focus on how algorithms can shape, filter or personalise information flows that may reinforce biases. and last week, the commission proposed the new deal for consumers package, which includes collective actions in case of mass harm situations. this can also be a strong enforcement tool in case of privacy violations. finally, there are the important criminal law investigations in this case which need to be carried out by the national law enforcement bodies. to conclude, what is guiding our work in the commission is a strong notion that the internet is not a space free of the rule of law. the rules that apply offline also need to be fully respected in the online world, and we need to make sure our modern data protection laws are thoroughly applied. i look forward to hearing your views today and to continue working together on these important issues for our society.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the facebook and cambridge analytica case is only the tip of the iceberg. the digital world is a duplication of our lives into which we throw ourselves without taking any precautions and with almost no demand for security. human intelligence is limited by its own consciousness; however, artificial intelligence knows no limits. it is paradoxical that we, as legislators, should be more careful to prevent the mistakes made by people, limited by their conscience, than by machines that know nothing of ethics or morality. the baby boomers, the generation i belong to, believe that the digital world is just a fun extension of the analog world. we are very wrong: what happens in cyberspace changes the space; what happens on the internet does not stay on the internet. lies are as old as politics: they were born at the same time as democracy and politics. politics, lies and democracy have been coexisting since ancient greece. the difference is that, today, lies can be more powerful than democracy and more powerful than politics, and more numerous than truths. in the next european elections the liars will try to make this parliament an anti-european majority, and we are in time to prevent that by protecting professional journalists and passing european legislation that puts limits on the liars. lying is as dangerous as nationalism, and it's usually its instrument. the only thing we can't do is sit back and watch.
mr president, the trade in or misuse of data mining is having a serious impact on electoral procedures; it allows for both the massive collection of confidential information from the electorate and the distribution of fake news generated to attract and disinform. measures are needed in the union to curb the misuse of data mining and the proliferation of fake news. it is not a question of restricting the right to freedom of expression, but of a responsible use of the media so that society is correctly informed without being manipulated. if it is not the commission, it is the states which must take the legislative initiative, as allowed by articles 74 and 76 of the treaty on european union. the misuse of metadata is a challenge to both democracy and cybersecurity. public and private actors need to coordinate their actions to avoid cases like the ones we report, strengthening cooperation and investigation. the introduction of the cybersecurity package last september is the right route. the creation of the european cybersecurity agency must be promoted and those already in charge of it, namely europol's ec3, must be given the resources they need. regularization, user awareness, prevention, cooperation and good use of media are what is necessary to avoid cases like cambridge analytica and facebook. i should like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
madam president, the very first day the whole scandal came out, the european data protection supervisor told us, the committee members: ‘it’s much bigger than you know’. and it was. it’s about fundamental rights, privacy awareness, but privacy enforcement as well: namely, the right to be forgotten, enshrined by the gdpr. but it is also about democracy, because fake news is a hybrid war of intoxication, manipulation, lies and hate speech aimed to weaken democracy through interfering in elections and enhancing populism and europhobia. so it takes a european response, which means that no member state can do it on its own before a giant in the internet, like facebook, but also legal, binding and effective law. but it takes action. that means that doing nothing is not a choice. that is what the european citizens are expecting from all of us, and that is precisely and exactly what we ask from you. the european commission must take initiative: action and now.
madam president, where, how, when, who do you talk to, what do you think about and who do you vote for? facebook knows everything about your life, your desires, your friendships. because technology is not neutral: it controls, manipulates, spies behind the scenes of the social media world. the scandal of the transfer of data from facebook to cambridge analytica does not allow an apology from facebook. it is an attack on democracy, on our fundamental right to data privacy, by controlling us ideologically for electoral propaganda and also controlling various peoples, such as the palestinian people or the kurdish people when facebook is allowed to close certain portals and platforms. it is not acceptable that private information is shared and, worse, sold. intimacy as a business is a new form of power in this global capitalism, an anti-democratic interference and we europeans must not be silent.
madam president, well, mr. coburn is not here. i am not concerned about the fact that we are putting a directive into effect, but about the millions and millions of euros that are escaping the law. in short, we must tackle the laundering of large sums of money from legal or illegal sources, and the anti-money laundering directive is our most important legal instrument. it tackles problems - as most colleagues have said - such as the risks associated with prepaid cards or virtual currencies, or the provision of company registers and bank accounts, which will be very useful for fraud investigation. now, our weak point is the application of the rules. for example, there are entities obliged to report suspected infringements that work de facto, as we have seen in various leaks, as facilitators of evasion and money laundering. and this happens because the financial intelligence units do not have sufficient resources or competence - it would help a lot to create a european financial intelligence unit, a commissioner - or because the national supervisor does not investigate, because it does not have resources, or because of other kinds of severe sanctions that we need. those who are escaping our control work in almost perfect chains; so must we.
mr president, commissioner jourová, the terrorist attacks that have shocked the european union explain the commission's initiative 'fourth directive on the prevention of money laundering and the financing of terrorism'. but we in the european parliament want these measures to be consistent with those adopted in other initiatives such as the cash control initiative, for which i am the rapporteur, and with the conclusions of the committee of inquiry into the panama papers. which means that we need to target prepaid cards, virtual currencies, bank account registries, and we need to make sure that not only financial institutions but also real estate agents, law firms, notaries, consulting firms, and even casinos respond. but most important of all is the establishment, at last, of european-wide, interconnected financial intelligence units that target the actual ownership of current accounts and the beneficiaries of companies. with this package of measures we must make the european union stronger against terrorism, but also achieve a reasonable balance between freedom and security.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. i would also like to thank mr häusling for the work he has done over the years to bring this up here today in this debate on this regulation. i would also like to stress the importance of organic farming and the legislation to regulate it and in this connection i would like to say that there are positive aspects, many positive aspects in this regulation - such as the ban on nanomaterials, the ban on cloned animals, on ionising radiation and also on genetically modified organisms - although i would like to stress that it would be important to me - and it is a shortcoming we find in this regulation - that we could go further to introduce some measure that would allow us to start to overcome - or at least tackle - genetically modified organisms in animal medicines. it is also very positive - and we emphasize this as very positive - to favour heterogeneous organic material, local varieties, farmers' seeds, short marketing cycles and local production. but we are also concerned about the presence of basic organic food on international markets. we believe that organic farming must go far beyond the production of organic food; it must also take into account aspects such as, for example, the fact that transport generates greenhouse gases and also energy waste, and we believe that organic farming should not contribute to this. we would also have liked to see stricter limits than those on conventional foodstuffs themselves. and since i see that my time is running out, i would like to end by making a reference to aquaculture. we do not understand that aquaculture can be ecological simply because fish eat organic food: food waste, faeces and medicines waste that go into the water are a problem which we believe should not be considered as such.
mr president, i have to say... i'm glad to see you in the chair! i would like to say that i am glad that this regulation can finally be adopted in this house. it has taken a long time and it is a regulation that is part of everyone's effort. each group has highlighted differences, but if one group had won in the end, no general agreement would have been possible. so it's a good deal. i would not have liked it any better, but i think it is a good agreement and will certainly strengthen farmers and consumers. i therefore think that border control is a very important step forward, that is to say, that we have harmonized these rules and that we do not have, as the commissioner has said, 60 rules. i think this is an important step forward, along with the possibility of european agriculture switching to the organic model - a big part of it - because we only consume 55% of what we produce. so there is a big step forward in being able to continue to produce in organic production. i thank mr häusling and the other rapporteurs for this great work.
mr president, we who advocate organic production are not doing so merely for the sake of regulation: we are concerned with ensuring that the production and marketing of food does not harm the environment, does not affect our health and is done in accordance with criteria of social justice. for example, when we exclude artisanal fishing from what is considered ecological and replace it with fish from aquaculture, we are setting a precedent that can be dangerous, because the sea is a common good, it belongs to everyone, and going to sea is a sustainable activity, respectful of the environment and on which the economy of many families and many villages depends. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. in addition, organic farming cannot be a kind of niche market for large companies. the key point here is that, unless there is a change in the european union's trade policy, there will be no real possibility of defending and promoting organic farming.
in writing. organic production is expanding unstoppably, with over 2.4 million organic farmers in the world. in the last five years, the area devoted to the project has increased by an average of 20% and the turnover by 62%. despite these extraordinary results, the area just mentioned is equivalent to 1.1% of the world's agricultural sector, directly responsible for 15% of ghg emissions, to which can be added the emissions from the manufacture of plant protection products, fertilisers and the entire transport chain, especially intercontinental, on large merchant ships: food production and consumption would be responsible for more than 50% of global emissions. organic farming is the most effective measure to mitigate emissions, but you have to pay for certifications and audits that raise the price for consumers. in contrast, none of the negative effects of emissions is reflected in the final price of conventional products, a clear comparative burden for organic production. in order to develop organic production widely, it is essential to internalize the negative effects of emissions on the environment and health in the value chain of the conventional food trade. this transition should be reflected in the cap.
i would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr president, because i think we have a good report and it is good that we look at the relations between national parliaments and the european parliament. let me make a couple of comments or clarifications on what i think we can bring to the report. firstly, i believe that we must avoid the interpretation of subsidiarity and proportionality - which are powers of the national parliaments - being made in an expansive way, so that the powers of the european institutions, and in particular the commission, are in some way limited. my personal experience is that, increasingly, european union policy calls for tackling issues that only european competition can tackle - say the energy union, say the fight against tax havens or tax harmonization, say the digital agenda... - there are a number of subjects that call for european legislative initiative. and i do not want an expansive interpretation of subsidiarity or proportionality to limit the powers of the european institutions. and secondly, i believe that much of what is currently failing in the framework of relations between the european union and the national parliaments is because the national parliaments do not take the european debate right back to their own seats. i think there are many opportunities missing for national parliaments to speak more about europe; for them to speak more to us; for meps to be able to participate in parliamentary debates; for there to be a debate in the national parliament before each european council, etc. my impression, ladies and gentlemen, is that much of what is lacking in the debate on the relationship between national parliaments and the european institutions is produced in national parliaments, and it would not be wrong for national parliaments to read this report carefully.
mr president, first of all we congratulate the rapporteur, mr rangel. the alde group would like to stress the importance of this close cooperation and the permanent exchange of information between the national parliaments and the european parliament. in fact, the report does a good job overall in pointing out the shortcomings of interinstitutional cooperation and pointing to new instruments. the national parliaments are the guardians of the principle of subsidiarity and monitor the european activity of these governments, but, as mr jauregui has pointed out, the european legislative initiative is increasingly crucial to the major global challenges in this changing and convulsive world. however, 'better regulation' has to be understood in both directions: towards the states and towards the commons. so the door of the european parliament must always be open, with responsibility, and the door of the national parliaments too. we shall vote in favour of improving this cooperation, although we must point out that extending the period of the yellow card does not seem to us to improve the legislative process.
mr president, i want to commend this report because i think it precisely identifies the problems of involving national parliaments in the preparation of european legislation. i think we have to ask ourselves why the yellow card is so underused. in the czech republic, when i have consulted the czech parliament on this subject over the last few years (we have a bicameral parliament), the czech legislators, especially the members of the second chamber, have complained strongly that the eight-week time limit is simply too short for someone to make a relevant comment on a legislative proposal, especially if it is a collective body, a chamber of parliament. so i am glad that you have also identified this problem here, i confirm it from my own member state, and it would be great if we could somehow achieve that this deadline is either calculated differently or extended in the future.
i agree with the proposals in this report to improve the early warning system provided for in the treaty for the control of subsidiarity and proportionality. before being elected to the european parliament, i was president of the basque parliament and of calre. the regions saw the protocol governing early warning as a window of opportunity to better connect this key level of governance with the community institutions. we have carried out a test to test its functioning with the committee of the regions and have set in motion a procedure which, together with the experience of recent years, shows that the eight-week period is insufficient; that regional positions are not taken up in the same way by the national parliaments and that there is generally a restrictive interpretation of this principle. that is why we think it is a good idea to ensure that the commission does not decide on the starting date of the eight-week period and to launch the idea of the green card as a kind of right to propose initiatives which would offer the regions a framework similar to that which the citizens' initiative offers europeans.
member of the commission. – mr president, i want to thank the rapporteur for his work and thank all the members who have contributed to the debate this evening. i hope that we can all agree that national parliaments have a clear role in bringing the european union closer to the people. i have spent over 27 years in the national parliament in ireland, and throughout that time i and many of my colleagues took a very keen interest in european union matters. since becoming commissioner i’ve always tried to include in my visits to member states a visit to the national parliaments and a participation in its various committees. i think this is important that we will continue to do this. i think that president juncker and i know that first vive-president timmermans are very anxious that we would include it in our programmes in any event. next week, for example, the agriculture and rural development committee of this house is organising a joint meeting with the agricultural committees of the national parliaments, which will provide a very useful opportunity for members of national parliaments to contribute to the preparation of the common agricultural policy and the commission’s legislative proposal. so i think that this is a good example, if we can do more of this in relation to the relevant national committees and the european parliament and the european commission, i think it would be very helpful. can i conclude by again thanking paulo rangel for his report, for his work? and i hope that this report will contribute to the strengthening of the role of national parliaments in a manner in which will make sure that european policy-making is closer to the people.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would again like to welcome commissioner vestager to this parliament. first of all, let me thank all the shadow rapporteurs. we have done very good work together. this is my second time as rapporteur of the annual report on competition policy. the first time was with commissioner almunia in 2013. this may be the last competition report of this term. next year we will have european elections again. as you know, this is a non—binding report, but it sends a strong political message to the commission. in the committee on economic and monetary affairs this report was approved with 49 votes in favour and only five against. i hope we will have the same huge majority in plenary tomorrow. i have to say that some of the competition problems are the same as five years ago, among them the google antitrust case. in the google case, five years seems an eternity to me. i say to the commissioner that still hope that we can close some of the cases before the end of the commission’s mandate. in this report we strongly support the independence of the commission and the national competition authorities. their mission is to shape and enforce effectively eu competition rules for the benefit of all eu citizens. sufficient financial and human resources are key to achieving this goal. an independent competition policy needs independent competition authorities. political appointments tend to protect oligopolies and cost millions to european citizens. in this report we call on the commission to reallocate adequate financial and human resources to dg competition, as we did last year. we also call for the modernisation of the directorate’s electronic and informatic tools in order to cope with the increasing workload and technological progress. regarding the issue of data, we have all been shocked by the facebook and cambridge analytica scandal. well, i am proud. we have been denouncing the utilisation and misuse of data for some years now. paragraph 44 of this report, written well before the facebook scandal, states that “big tech companies’ use of personal data is unprecedented. consumers are often not aware or informed of the extent to which their data is being used, for example in profiling or targeted advertising”. the commission was well aware of this. to avoid further such scandals in the eu, the new gdpr rules that are coming into force are good news in this respect. regarding the google antitrust shopping case, in paragraph 42 we put the unbundling of google back on the table as one of the options to restore equal treatment and non—discrimination in search results. we also invite google’s ceo to a joint imco/econ hearing in parliament. we can sum up the google case in a short tweet: inaction brings google unbundling closer every day. commissioner vestager, i have some questions for you. would you have updates to give us today on the shopping antitrust case? in addition, what about the android and adsense cases. finally, you were in the us last week. i hope you had interesting meetings. if you could talk to us about them, it would be very well received. in paragraph 56, we welcome the commission’s simplification of the rules for public investment in ports and airports. all major infrastructure should be based on a positive cost benefit analysis and long—term economic viability in order to avoid the future financing of ghost airports in europe. we also raised the issue of airlines’ competition and the concerns with regard to gulf carriers. we need financial transparency in order to confirm or dismiss alleged public subsidies which break the level playing field among european and third country airlines. finally, we also welcome the fact that, from now on, direct flights between tokyo and barcelona will be possible. we welcome the fact that the spanish government is ready to open up the bilateral agreement between spain and russia – which prevents there from being a barcelona-tokyo route – as announced by the spanish minister of transport last february. competition is the best remedy against transport centralism. i will stop here. once again, i thank all the rapporteurs for their contributions. i look forward to your comments and our exchange.
madam president, i have studied the report and i agree with most of the passages, but allow me to make one comment. i have a problem, as some of my colleagues do, with the passages that concern tax policy. in short, they are so well written and so general that, if interpreted in a certain way, they can give rise to the idea that the european parliament is calling for the harmonization of tax policy by adopting them, and that is a big problem for me personally. i also have a big problem with the passage that deals with the issue of social dumping. this is a very sensitive issue that divides the old eu member states and the new eu member states. it's a big policy that is very sensitive in our country. and i personally think that in an annual report like this, the facts concerning competition policy should really be summed up and such very sensitive political issues, on which we have no clear opinion, should not be mentioned in this way.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to group my answers, first taking those relating to data, then some of the questions raised on agriculture, then taxation, then addressing the issue of the earthquake support, and then on the proposal to empower national competition authorities. regarding the things that we are discussing right now, when it comes to data i think this is the best example of the fact that we need competition law enforcement to the spirit and the letter of our regulation, but we also need new regulation. the two things will have to go hand in hand. i think this house needs praise for the fact that the new privacy rules coming into effect next month have been done in such a timely manner. this house did not wait for a scandal like the facebook scandal to unfold. on the contrary, beforehand, this house, knowing how powerless europeans feel when it comes to privacy, enabled new, simpler, enforceable rules. i think that is very important. we will of course do our part when it comes to misuse of a dominant position if we find cartels or if we find that contracts are being used in a way actually to disable innovation, preventing small and medium—sized businesses from doing their part when it comes to data. that of course leads directly to the question of taxation. so many small and medium—sized businesses pay their taxes, create jobs and have to look at multinational businesses, which can easily afford to contribute to the society where they do their business and which accept or ask for ways to organise their taxation in order to pay very, very little in taxes. this is not fair competition. but, of course, state aid enforcement does not solve this. we need legislation as well. it is also very important to see that the council has passed legislation in the last two years in order to close loopholes, in order to increase transparency and in order to hold the intermediaries responsible. but the new proposals on the table are also important, for instance, the proposal that will update a very important concept in corporate taxation to a digital world. on average, digital companies pay 10% in tax. other companies pay 23-24% in tax on average. it is important to update our taxation to make sure that the business that makes a revenue in a society also contributes to that society. we will of course continue to do what we do, but we also need to work with colleagues who work with legislation in general. when it comes to agriculture, i think there is a deep and very common understanding of the fact that the bargaining powers in the value chain are very different, from being a small individual farmer to being large retail chains. this is why we have done our best to enable farmers to come together, to have higher prices and lower costs, and are also working very closely with colleagues in the commission to make sure that, when there is legislation on unfair trading practices, these are targeted and actually help the people that we want to help. regarding the question on earthquake and natural disasters, i think anyone can feel the pain of seeing their business, home, village or city destroyed by an earthquake. this is also reflected in our treaty. our treaty allows for help and compensation for damage. that is being done. it was done in the 2009 scheme and it is being done right now with what the italian government has put in place due to their earthquakes in 2016 and 2017. but you cannot compensate people who have not had damage. if your business was a letterbox business and you have had no damage, you can have no compensation. if your damage is of a certain size, then your compensation should reflect that and that is what has been raised. the good thing – and i think everyone finds this to be important and a good thing – is that the people who had damage were compensated for this damage in the right way. on the greek cases that were raised, unfortunately i do not know the details. it was decided in the previous commission and this is why. i will be more than happy to report back to you in writing. last but not least, i am very happy with the support of the national competition authorities. the approach of this house is to empower national competition authorities to protect citizens in each and every member state, to make sure that, when they enforce european competition law, they have the independence, the human resources, the resources and ability to have digital evidence, and of course to impose fines that act as a deterrent. i find that this is a very important message from this house tonight. i hope that we can work together to pass this directive within a very short timeframe because it is a signal to citizens that you should not only look to brussels, but you can also look to your national competition authority and know that they are empowered to protect you in order to have a fair deal in the marketplace. on that basis, thank you very much for the report. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for the effort that has been put into it. i hope that there will be a successful vote tomorrow.
rapporteur. – madam president, i couldn’t agree more with the last part of the commissioner’s intervention. i also fully share the opinion of my colleague from the epp from the irish, mr hayes, about the importance of national competition authorities, and in this sense the countries in the north of europe can give some lessons to the southern european countries in this respect. this is why we give a strong mandate to the commission in this report to take a look at what is going on in some capitals concerning this very important point. let me also answer some concerns about the tax competition: of course i believe in tax competition and we can talk about our own edition of the tax base, but i am against tax harmonisation concerning the rate: i think that is a very liberal approach. if we look at the united states, very briefly, they have a centralised monetary policy but a highly decentralised fiscal policy. there is a lot of empirical evidence and a lot of economic literature showing that it is very important to compensate the differentiated effects of the centralised monetary policy. this is why it is needed to have a highly decentralised fiscal policy to compensate territorial and sectoral differentiated effects of the single monetary policy in the us. i think that europe can learn big lessons from this long experience they have in the us. finally, madam commissioner, it has been a pleasure to work with you and your team. your work has been quite impressive, we have to recognise, in the last years. i want you to be successful and end your mandate as well as you have started it. you have raised the bar and i hope you finish your mandate and your job as well as you have started it.
in writing. the spanish socialists demand that the council explain its inaction on tax transparency for multinational companies in europe. parliament already adopted its reform last year, which would ensure that all companies with a turnover of more than €750 million declare where they make their profits and where they pay their taxes, disaggregated for all countries where they have a subsidiary or branch. the country-by-country public reporting directive has been blocked for more than two years by several member states protecting the interests of large multinational tax evaders, resulting in the loss of up to €190 billion a year in tax revenue for the european union as a whole. the obligation to disclose their earnings, taxes owed, taxes paid and the number of employees for each country in which they operate will hold the world's largest companies and all governments to account. it will highlight where starbucks, monsanto & co, etc. get their profits and pay their taxes and whether they move their profits to countries with very low tax rates. the council must be transparent and reveal who is preventing the agreement.
in writing. the spanish socialists demand that the council explain its inaction on tax transparency for multinational companies in europe. parliament already adopted its reform last year, which would ensure that all companies with a turnover of more than €750 million declare where they make their profits and where they pay their taxes, disaggregated for all countries where they have a subsidiary or branch. the country-by-country public reporting directive has been blocked for more than two years by several member states protecting the interests of large multinational tax evaders, resulting in the loss of up to €190 billion a year in tax revenue for the european union as a whole. the obligation to disclose their earnings, taxes owed, taxes paid and the number of employees for each country in which they operate will hold the world's largest companies and all governments to account. it will highlight where starbucks, monsanto & co, etc. get their profits and pay their taxes and whether they move their profits to countries with very low tax rates. the council must be transparent and reveal who is preventing the agreement.
in writing. the spanish socialists demand that the council explain its inaction on tax transparency for multinational companies in europe. parliament already adopted its reform last year, which would ensure that all companies with a turnover of more than €750 million declare where they make their profits and where they pay their taxes, disaggregated for all countries where they have a subsidiary or branch. the country-by-country public reporting directive has been blocked for more than two years by several member states protecting the interests of large multinational tax evaders, resulting in the loss of up to €190 billion a year in tax revenue for the european union as a whole. the obligation to disclose their earnings, taxes owed, taxes paid and the number of employees for each country in which they operate will hold the world's largest companies and all governments to account. it will highlight where starbucks, monsanto & co, etc. get their profits and pay their taxes and whether they move their profits to countries with very low tax rates. the council must be transparent and reveal who is preventing the agreement.
in writing. the spanish socialists demand that the council explain its inaction on tax transparency for multinational companies in europe. parliament already adopted its reform last year, which would ensure that all companies with a turnover of more than €750 million declare where they make their profits and where they pay their taxes, disaggregated for all countries where they have a subsidiary or branch. the country-by-country public reporting directive has been blocked for more than two years by several member states protecting the interests of large multinational tax evaders, resulting in the loss of up to €190 billion a year in tax revenue for the european union as a whole. the obligation to disclose their earnings, taxes owed, taxes paid and the number of employees for each country in which they operate will hold the world's largest companies and all governments to account. it will highlight where starbucks, monsanto & co, etc. get their profits and pay their taxes and whether they move their profits to countries with very low tax rates. the council must be transparent and reveal who is preventing the agreement.
in writing. the increase in vaccine reluctance and the fall in vaccination rates in europe, with its consequent impact on the re-emergence of diseases we thought we had forgotten, is not just a public health problem; it is also a matter of political confidence. it is known that vaccine scepticism is associated with false information spread on the internet, and with emotional distrust towards health professionals and towards the government. institutions should take note of these trends to strengthen citizens' trust in proven health measures, and they should do so intelligently, employing evidence-based political and scientific communication strategies that are able to better understand the significant role played by emotions and people's different moral intuitions. i am confident that we will be closer to achieving our public health objectives by strengthening the science-policy dialogue within the european institutions.
the rapporteur. madam president, i also want to thank the co-chair, mrs soraya, and all the people who have helped us. as a victim of terrorism since the terrorist organisation eta murdered my brother and his wife, since i entered this parliament i have always been concerned with defending the rights of victims: of all victims - especially of terrorism, but of all. so i was very pleased when this report was presented in 2010 and i was assigned to it, and i remember that we all had high expectations about this report, because it was going to be a dynamic mechanism to avoid red tape and improve the lives of the victims. the epo was the result of the stockholm programme, which called for coherent policy responses in the area of freedom, security and justice. we were not talking about creating a convergence of national laws, we were talking about a mechanism of judicial cooperation. however, this instrument, as it stands today, has failed. in 2010, when this directive was presented, it was estimated that one hundred thousand women residing in the european union had protection orders of some kind for gender-based violence. well, we know that only seven orders have been issued: four in spain, two in the united kingdom and one in italy. that's shockingly scarce. so the question we have to ask ourselves - parliament, the commission, all of us - also the member states - is what has failed, and to try with this implementation to give recommendations to the states and see what we have seen, because what we have to do is to save lives and improve the lives of the victims. since the directive came into force, we have no data from the european commission, nor from the member states. even the ngos haven't been able to collect data, because there isn't any. with so few resources, it is no wonder that we had the study by the european parliamentary research service, and from there we have identified a number of shortcomings. for example - i will mention some of them - there is no central register of european orders, which makes it very difficult to evaluate them: the instrument itself is very complex - this is important - because it complicates the application of the directive by national authorities and also complicates the understanding of the victims of this directive. there is no special provision for vulnerable people, such as children, such as people with disabilities. there is a huge lack of training for national authorities: the implementation of the epo in each country was not monitored; there is a huge gap between coordination and communication between the member states which have to implement the european order. the victims are not offered translation, which is necessary for a european protection order. as far as victims are concerned, an important aspect is that the protected person must be given adequate information on how to apply for such an order in another member state. we have seen a general lack of information and awareness campaigns: neither the police, nor the judges, nor the victims - no one knows about this order. how can they ask for something they don't know? because, truly, it has been overlooked. i think it can be said that all the victims in this process will face some problem because they have to go from one country to another: if no one helps them, well, they really prefer not to ask for it, and not even their lawyers ... no one advises them to do so. so we have to change the coordination and communication between the authorities. we also ask the commission to set up a european register system to collect information on the epo from all the member states. we stress these legal and practical shortcomings. and, well, all i can say is that european citizens are really asking us for greater judicial cooperation. neither the victim protection orders nor the euro-arrests for the surrender of perpetrators are working properly. europe is not just the cap, it is not just the euro, although these are very important; europe is justice, freedom and security for all european citizens.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, madam commissioner, the european protection order is a great instrument, which makes it possible to protect women throughout the european union who are victims of gender-based violence, but it is a great instrument, as the rapporteurs have said, with a very serious problem of implementation. only seven orders issued since the instrument was launched is a very poor result. and i want to make some reflections. one that is already in the rapporteurs' report: you, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, have been very late with the implementation report, which we do not yet have. and to take this instrument seriously is also to make these kind of implementation reports and to know exactly whether the member states are implementing it well or not. we have a problem of harmonisation of the types too, because it is true that certain matters, such as harassment, which are covered by one legal system are not covered by another, and that therefore makes the instrument lose its force. and some of the elements that the commissioner has mentioned and which are important: information for victims and training for those who are at the first point of contact with a victim (police, civil servants), who must know that this instrument exists. gender-based violence therefore remains a very serious problem at eu level. we have a good instrument. let's all make an effort to make it work.
madam president, commissioner, the european protection order was an initiative of the spanish presidency in 2010, which deserves recognition, as does the work of our two colleagues in the european parliament who are bringing this debate on its implementation and on its effectiveness, which is what it is about. the european protection order has one objective: to protect victims and to enable them to be accompanied by such protection when moving within the area of free movement of persons. it is aimed in particular at particularly vulnerable victims such as women victims of gender-based violence and victims of terrorism, but not only. but the basis of mutual trust and mutual recognition of judicial decisions is fundamental, which is the feature it shares with the euro order, and which is not designed for judges to examine the quality of the injunction, but to, based on trust, execute it. it is the way the message can reach its intended audience, who are the particularly vulnerable victims. the european union therefore needs to ratify the istanbul convention, but at the same time it needs to overcome this shortfall in implementation, which is illustrated by the fact that there have only been seven european protection orders so far - four of them in spain. we must redouble our efforts to ensure that the european protection order is effective and efficient.
madam president, commissioner, i have to ask you a question. i would like to thank my colleagues teresa and soraya for their work and all those who have contributed to the report. we share a common objective: to propose effective measures to make a basic european initiative to combat gender-based violence better known, more widely used, free of administrative and financial costs for those who benefit from it, adequately protecting children who are victims of this scourge and promoting harmonisation of the legal treatment of gender-based violence in the union. the fact that the possibilities offered by this legal instrument are not widely known is the reason why it is so rarely used, despite the brutal impact of gender-based violence on women in the union. it is therefore urgent to launch information and training campaigns aimed in particular at legal operators and public services who come into contact with this problem. we have also proposed that host states inform protected persons of social and health services which supplement the benefits of the epo. unifying forms, digitising processes, setting specific processing times and improving statistics are other proposals to improve the effectiveness and possibilities of using the order.
the rapporteur. madam president, contrary to what some of my colleagues - fortunately very few of them here - have said, i do believe in judicial cooperation, i do believe in a european area of protection, where people can feel free and safe, mr synadinos. they're talking about all the victims. this report refers to victims of terrorism, but unfortunately most of the protection orders are issued to women, because they are victims of gender-based violence. but all victims are mentioned, because all victims are equal and deserve the same protection. and i think that if this law is explained well, disseminated well, applied well, it can work, but it is not a question of clarity, which another of our colleagues - a colleague - has said is unclear and undefined. no, it is not a question of clarity: it is a question of political will; and not just the political will of this parliament, or the commission, but the political will of the members of parliament sitting here who do not believe in europe and do not believe in an area of freedom, security and justice, in which i and, thank god, most of my colleagues do believe.
in writing. the european protection order (epo) was launched under the spanish presidency of the eu in 2010. the epo is a european legal instrument for victims of crime and while it is not limited to victims of gender-based violence, it is important to note that they are at the heart of its concern. in this debate, it is important to stress the importance of action at union level to strengthen the rights and protection of victims of crime. it is a question of granting a victim of a crime in one member state who moves to another the same or an equivalent level of protection as he or she enjoyed in the first. this directive was the first mutual recognition instrument within the eu targeted at victims and of a criminal nature. a protection order issued in one member state should be recognised and enforced in another member state. the epo has the potential to be an effective instrument for protecting victims in a world characterised by high mobility, but more information is needed because it is a currently under-utilized resource.
in writing. since the entry into force of this directive, any european victim has the right to seek protection in another eu country, whether moving there permanently or for a temporary visit. the free movement of persons in the eu implies that people should be able to move freely from one country to another. the epo must ensure that all victims can move freely, while at the same time their rights and freedoms are safeguarded. we must work to ensure that the protection of victims is not hampered by the diversity of national measures. in this connection, the report we are going to adopt today analyses these problems in order to find possible solutions. we want the eu's area of freedom, security and justice to become a reality. if we are to make further progress in the process of integration, and if we are fully committed to the free movement of persons, it is essential that we encourage such instruments based on mutual recognition. recognition based on mutual trust and respect for the rule of law in the various member states.
in writing. as has been reiterated in previous work, there are serious shortcomings in the current directive, which can be summarised in the lack of coordination and communication between member states, the existence of situations of lack of access to justice and legal assistance for victims and the lack of resources for the awareness raising and protection of victims (especially in rural areas). we are therefore faced with a powerful judicial tool, but one which has so far proved ineffective. the report calls on the commission to take action as soon as possible, and my group will therefore support it. finally, i would like to remind you that the european protection order must serve to protect all victims, in particular women victims of gender-based violence, who are the biggest claimants of this measure and who need it to be effective now. we cannot wait any longer and the commission must redouble its efforts in the new proposal. we will also continue to insist that it also review its minimum programme and implement a genuine comprehensive gender strategy, with increased support from resources and coordination with the states.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, today we are proposing an oral question on the bologna process, in which we ask the commission to act to reduce the gap between the big-mouth statements made at ministerial summits and the concrete actions taken at member state level. i think it is very important that the resolution attached to our question stresses the diffusion of knowledge, research and science as key elements in the union's strategy and the promotion of european citizenship. however, i wonder to what extent we can say that we have developed the european higher education area in a truly integrated way. as a catalan and spanish member of parliament, i would like to draw attention to the inconsistency of my country being part of a european academic system, based on mobility and dialogue between students from different nations, while the central government cannot guarantee the right of the citizens of catalonia to study in the common language of the spanish people. weeks ago, the minister of education announced changes to allow parents to choose spanish as the language of instruction for their children in catalan public schools. but unfortunately, in the resolution which includes the rules for matriculation in the next year, there is no alternative box to the catalan language. it is at least irregular that in a spanish region public education does not allow teaching in the common language of all spaniards, and above all within a european space that especially values the exchange of knowledge in different languages.
madam president, ten years later, the fruits of european convergence are very uneven. a decade ago, the student movement said that it did not want education to become a school for the elite or a factory for the unemployed and today, tuition fees are much more expensive, the quality of education has not improved, the door has been opened to private companies in universities and there are teachers who receive salaries of four hundred euros. european convergence promised to be achieved by better means, but it seems that they never came. it is true that the bologna process has brought us closer to europe, but it has been more because studying for a master's degree in spain is so expensive that many students end up going abroad. we need european convergence, but we need something else: convergence to promote public education, public prices and an accessible university; convergence to promote research and not to make scientific careers a gateway to precariousness; to build a society in which qualifications are valued; and a university with gender equality.
mr president, commissioner, it is no surprise that every 25 march there are demonstrations on the occasion of independence day. nor is it any surprise that these demonstrations are repressed with arrests, not just preventive but repressive, of international observers, human rights activists, journalists; because that is the practice under the regime presided over by alexander lukashenko. belarus is a european country and, unfortunately, an exception, the only country that has not managed to make its way into the council of europe, and the only country that maintains the death penalty. i therefore believe that the european parliament has reason to be concerned about the violations of fundamental rights, freedom of expression, information pluralism - freedom, in short, in a european country - and to use its full potential and diplomatic capacity to ensure that belarus is no longer an exception. and it is particularly important to advocate for reputable human rights ngos such as the human rights centre viasna and the belarusian helsinki committee. our work as a continent free of the death penalty will not be complete until we have succeeded in making belarus no longer an exception.
author. mr president, in the so-called war on drugs, more than 12,000 people have been killed in the philippines. the war on terrorism is also being used as an excuse to attack, murder and criminalize those who oppose the government and the extractive and agro-industrial projects. the philippines is the asian country where the most environmental defenders have been killed: forty-one in 2017; many of them in mindanao, the country's mining capital. while mindanao residents denounce the application of martial law, the persecution of indigenous social leaders accused of terrorism, human rights violations and the militarization of the region, the multinationals - what a coincidence! - thank the government for its protection. we demand that arms and military equipment be stopped from being sold to the philippines; that the gsp+ trade preferences be eliminated and that the current free trade negotiations be frozen. all our solidarity and support to the filipino people and especially to the people of mindanao.
mr president, the truth is that the socialist group put forward this resolution and wanted to work with a broad consensus in this house. we felt it was very important that the resolution should be supported by as many groups as possible. the truth is that when i listen to mr preda i cannot tell you how much i regret having finally made a commitment to the european people's party. things like: gaza is the worst open-air prison that exists in the world. that's the truth. what happens is that mr. preda's compassion reaches right up to the gaza strip, there is no compassion there anymore. young people locked up for decades decades, with nothing at their fingertips not water, not air, not the ability to breathe, not to feed, not to heal, are being shot in the knees and ankles to leave them disabled for the rest of their lives. yes, israel has a right to its security, of course, and this group will always condemn terrorism, but what is being done in gaza is intolerable, inhumane, useless and very, very dangerous. and i ask the group of the european people's party, once a great deal has been agreed in this house, in which we all had to resign, not to make statements so extremely damaging to the consensus of this house. we demand an immediate end to the blockade of gaza. and we demand an independent investigation to judge what we believe has been a disproportionate use of force by the israeli military against unarmed youth. that is the position of the socialist group and that is the position defended by this resolution.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, on 30 may and 9 april israeli security forces opened fire on demonstrators in gaza calling for the return of refugees and an end to the blockade: more than 30 people were killed three children; a journalist wearing a jacket was credited ; more than 1 350 people were shot and 40 people are still in critical condition. un experts have noted that at no time did the protesters endanger the physical security of israeli forces. i would like to remind you that the use of lethal force against demonstrators who do not pose a risk to life or limb is contrary to international law - and specifically to the fourth geneva convention - and a crime under the rome statute of the international criminal court. every state is obliged to respect peaceful protest and to intervene with the minimum force necessary. we condemn the killings; we demand an impartial investigation; we demand that israel allow the entry of urgent medicines into gaza. we call on the prosecutor of the international criminal court to open an investigation immediately and we demand, once and for all, an end to this inhumane blockade to which the people of gaza are subjected and which is causing the united nations to point out that there are 1.3 million people in need of urgent humanitarian aid.
the european parliament must condemn in the strongest possible terms the massacre by israel of 30 peaceful demonstrators in gaza and the wounding of 2,000, including women and children. the use of force against peaceful protesters, with disproportionate attacks by the israel defense forces, can never, ever be justified for security reasons. there are many zionists in this chamber, as we have just heard. the palestinian people have a fundamental right to peaceful protest and to free movement, including the return of refugees. we must be clear: either we are on the side of violence or we are on the side of peace. israel disregards human life with total impunity. military officers have refused to cancel the illegal open-fire orders and the government continues to justify open fire. when a state attacks peaceful protesters with disproportionate force, it is a criminal state. what can you expect from a state that imprisons minors like ahed tamini, that kills journalists, that hurts children? we call for an end to the blockade of the gaza strip and for an independent and transparent investigation. not as the defense minister said, who just denied israel's investigation. we call for an end to illegal occupation and apartheid.
mr president, in the last few weeks 30 peaceful protesters have been killed and over 3 000 injured by the israeli army in gaza. the killing of protesters is a very serious violation of the most basic rights and an intolerable practice of the israeli army. so are other violations, such as the imprisonment of minors like activist tamimi. palestine continues to live under a military occupation which practices daily ethnic cleansing against its people. enough of the talk, ladies and gentlemen! if israel refuses the independent investigation requested by mogherini, the european union must immediately suspend arms exports and any security and trade agreements with israel. the european union cannot be an accomplice to the apartheid crimes against the freedom and equality of palestinians and against the rights of refugees, as the legitimate and peaceful bds campaign denounces and the united nations institutions acknowledge. the european union is obliged to act and to sanction israel as it has already sanctioned south africa and its apartheid. long live the struggle of the palestinian people!
mr president, i wanted to reply to the irish member who spoke earlier simply to say that this parliament does not have to enter into any peace resolution or open any debate on peace in spain. because in spain, ma'am, there has been no war. i have already said it here once: my brother, alberto jiménez becerril, and his wife were killed by eta, along with 858 other victims. none of the victims responded to those attacks, therefore, and those attacks were carried out in a 90 percent democracy. there's nothing to sign. it is a document, propaganda of eta, to attract all the international attention that you are trying to give it and we, who know who the terrorists are, are not going to allow it, because there are many more of us who are on the side of the victims.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, when this parliament awarded the sakharov prize to the venezuelan opposition, it made a very special commitment to venezuelan democracy. on 20 may, fake elections will be held in venezuela, and we must try to prevent them from taking place. that is why our best help is to vote here a resolution that says three things: first, that we will not recognize the result of a fake election; second, that we urge the maduro regime not to hold elections and dialogue with the opposition to build a democracy for all venezuelans; and third, that international observers, and least of all the european union, should not be accomplices in what maduro is trying to do with these elections. today maduro has been elected in an election recognized by all. the maduro after may 20 will be an even more illegitimate ruler than he is today. let us maintain our commitment to the venezuelan opposition as the sakharov prize marks us.
mr. president, we are against this proposal because it is inappropriate, it is forced, and its only intention is to interfere in an election that they know their friends are not going to win by not showing up. the epp group only accepts elections won by its friends. with the same national electoral council he endorsed the assembly elections because his friends had won. but with the same national electoral council they denounced the elections to the national constituent assembly because their colleagues had not even presented themselves. no country in the world invalidates elections by voluntary absenteeism. the epp group seeks destabilisation and interference; to achieve by international harassment what its friends failed to achieve by street violence. stop poisoning, stop contributing to chaos, help normality, convince your little friends in the opposition to talk and reach agreements.
mr president, if democracy in venezuela is so important, i do not understand why we should stop fighting for it for procedural reasons. it cannot be that procedure is more important than democracy. when procedure is put before democracy, it's an excuse not to support democracy. in any case, there is no need to prove urgency: it is obvious, it is on the calendar. the elections will be on may 20th. there is no other plenary session in which we can take a decision. either we speak now or there is no resolution. i prefer there to be resolution, you may prefer there to be no resolution. we must find an intermediate solution: let us have a debate and let what this house has already said in many resolutions be expressed by the president speaking on behalf of all.
mr president, that is a consensus proposal. if that proposal is accepted, we can live with it. if not, we would like to see our proposal voted on.
mr president, you are breaking the rules of procedure, because for a resolution the groups have to have it in our language at least 24 hours before. they do not twist the law, as the popular party in spain does to hide its corruption. don't twist the law.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote. a woman, an 18-year-old girl, is introduced into a portal by five men who call themselves the pack, is subjected to multiple rape and multiple harassment without her consent. and the ruling indicates that it's not sexual assault, that it's just abuse, because there's no violence, because there's no intimidation. this is absolute barbarism. but the istanbul convention defines rape as any sexual act without consent. and only six european countries have adopted this definition of rape. we therefore feel it is absolutely essential, in order that this social alarm does not spread beyond our country, does not spread to other european countries, that we please have this debate to urge the recognition of the concept of rape, to urge the harmonization of the regulations in all the member states and so that such a thing does not happen again. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, we share the indignation - as it cannot be otherwise - in everything that concerns zero tolerance against the violation of human rights that sexual aggression and violence always imply. we would frame the debate on the member states' compliance with the istanbul convention, and not on criticism of judicial decisions which, as you know, are independent in a state governed by the rule of law. judges are subject to the rule of law and all the guarantees and, according to our constitution - as it could not be otherwise - a judge cannot be prosecuted in the exercise of his judicial function. that is the only appeal that can be made, which is provided for in our penal code, and this case is being tried with two more appeals: an appeal to the supreme court and an appeal to the high court of justice. so yes to debate, yes to consider future amendments to be able to comply with and be in line with the istanbul convention, but in no case to question the judiciary from the legislative branch, because we would be doing a disservice to the trust that our justice system requires from the citizens.
mr president, mr juncker, mr oettinger, i have listened to you very carefully, and taking into account that we do not yet know the full details – and the devil usually is in the detail – my first assessment is a mixed one. on the one hand, i see some really strong points in your proposal, especially on the revenue side, in which you propose to reduce member states’ direct contributions down to 48% through new own resources, some of them with a clear ecological imprint, or by getting rid of rebates, which, of course, is a positive proposal. however, i am concerned about other points related to volume. if it is true, as you have just said, mr juncker, that budgetary resources are linked to political priorities, then i must say that my ambition is greater than yours and possibly my political priorities are different from yours. if we are to cope with the huge challenges that we are facing, then, to my mind, we need more resources than the ones that you are proposing. my group is ready to defend parliament’s call for 1.3% of gdp. when it comes to priorities, may i remind you of what article 2 of the paris agreement says: ‘making financial flows consistent with a pathway towards low greenhouse gas emissions and climate-resilient development’. europe needs finally to make that a priority. we need to deliver much more, and in order to do so we need a budget in which climate-related spending reaches a much higher level than what you are proposing.
mr president, commissioner, this budgetary debate is the most political debate we can have. and of course with the explanations of your proposal i think politics has been put on the back burner, because once again mathematics has been given the upper hand. what is the story of this proposal? what kind of europe is the commission proposing for the future? what are the objectives and how will this financial framework help to achieve them? are the sustainable development objectives included in this proposal? we have not been able to hear anything from them. mr juncker said that the level of the budget has to be linked to the level of ambition, and of course, looking at the situation, i think they have missed a great opportunity to make a bold proposal. the european project has been tottering for ten years, and this was the moment to tell people that the european union is here once again, that the european union is alive, that solidarity and the fight against inequalities are going to be our priorities for the future and that we are going to get the banking sector, the big multinationals and the digital sector to contribute so that these proposals can be financed, so that the new priorities can be financed and so that we do not have to cut back on the common agricultural policy or the cohesion policy, which is where solidarity really comes in. you know the position of the european parliament. we have approved it before the commission has made its proposal. and now all we ask is that we sit down to negotiate, that we discuss all these proposals and that we seek an agreement before the next elections so that we can carry this financial framework forward.
mr president, president juncker said that budgets are not accounting exercises, but are about priorities and ambition. that's right, yeah. the problem with this budget is the error in the analysis of priorities and the lack of ambition. we must meet new needs without neglecting old ones. that takes resources. solidarity requires a strong cohesion policy if europe's regions are to gain in competitiveness and, of course, maintain the funding for the common agricultural and fisheries policies, which are so important in my region, galicia. but if europe wants to win the future, it cannot turn its back on digitalisation, innovation, the fight against climate change, the energy transition, the new social pillar. we therefore need the european countries to scratch their pockets, we need more resources and if we do not, we may be frustrating the hopes of the european citizens once again.
mr president, commissioner, we are today looking at the proposal for the post-2020 multiannual financial framework. the pandora's box of accounting arrangements that cut into cohesion has been opened. i come from a country, galicia, which knows very well what cohesion is, for good and for bad. instead of talking about youth mobility policies, they could talk about policies to combat youth unemployment and emigration. instead of talking about defence policies, they could talk about policies to combat the export of arms and armaments to other states. we don't want these accounting arrangements, commissioner. we want cohesion policies for our producers, for our fishermen, for our farmers, and the european parliament's chance of remaining silent is a chance, because the reality is that we are going to fight. this hypothesis, which opens up pandora's box of money, speaks of austerity. these are policies which do not speak to the face of women, to the face of men, to the face of precarious workers, to the face of people without jobs or with jobs that are not decent.
madam president, welcome to the commission. i thank mr valli for his report, which is very interesting, although some localist issues sometimes fall short. i will raise only two concerns. firstly, the eib has shown a dramatic lack of adaptation to micro-credit, which is fundamental to development cooperation. in regions such as the maghreb, or in general in africa and latin america, we find that many contracts are signed but none are implemented. now that the edf is finally part of the community budget, it is more important than ever to ensure that this type of micro-credit is represented. secondly, their lack of adaptation to start-ups and the need to hedge the risk necessary to move forward. that would be a great added value: they would not have to go to the united states for funding. and finally, since mr. hoyer is not here, perhaps the commissioner can explain. a curious question: how has the european investment bank and its hub of excellence been integrated - at least as far as we are concerned - in the design of the new european union financing instrument? if it is true that we have not worked together, how do we explain it and why? what are the entities the european commission is thinking of?
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, i would like first of all to thank you for this interesting debate which we have had today. we will surely have the opportunity to continue the discussions on the eib’s role as a strategic implementing partner in the forthcoming months in the context of the commission’s proposal for the next multiannual financial framework. as i said in my opening debate, this strategic investment fund was a revolution for the eib, and we have worked together also on the omnibus to make some blendings between structural funds and strategic investment funds in order to maximise the impact, and we are working very well with the eib. also, regarding the request of mrs ines ayala, i would like to say that the eib has adapted and changed its business model with efsi, taking on more risk, developing new products and benefiting smaller projects. you know that small and medium-sized enterprises incentivising start-ups are the biggest beneficiary so far of efsi. we expect more than 611 000 smes to benefit from the efsi fund. for start-ups, we just launched the so-called ‘venture eu’, which will target specifically start-ups to help them grow in europe, and also we expect to attract eur 55 billion with this new initiative to support over 150 000 start-ups and scale-ups. as i said, we are continuing to pay attention to the valuable observations and suggestions of the european parliament. i would like to thank once again the rapporteur for this important work and of course, it’s a pity that the representative of the eib is not here, but hopefully we will have the opportunity to speak again. thank you madam president, thanks to the rapporteur and also the honourable members who have the patience to say so much today.
in writing. the official message from the european commission is to transition to a low-carbon economy and achieve net-zero emissions by 2050, but the reality is quite different. while commissioner cañete and vice-president šefčovič stress the importance of reducing emissions, the eib is also committed to financing fossil fuels, spending billions of euros on building infrastructure for these fuels. this embarrassing institutional funding sends a mixed message to private investors in renewable energy, whose falling prices risk turning the financed infrastructure into stranded assets within a few years. in the interests of diversification and security of supply, the eu is only securing the fossil fuel business, and it is jeopardising compliance with the climate agreement by promoting the use of fossil fuels, such as natural gas, with worrying leakage rates and a potent impact on global warming comparable to emissions from the burning of lignite, the most polluting coal. financing fossil fuel investments undermines the opportunities for developing renewable energy and creates uncertainty in a transitioning energy market.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, venezuela urgently needs a political solution to end the current crisis and, first and foremost, to deliver on its people’s needs. you know that many venezuelans are also european citizens and you know how deep the ties are that link the country and the european union. they are cultural, social and even family ties. yet, the latest developments have pushed the possibility of a compromise even further away. since we last discussed venezuela in the plenary just a couple of months ago, the negotiations in santo domingo have been suspended indefinitely without an agreement between the government and the opposition. in spite of this, the government decided to go ahead with early presidential elections, to be held on 20 may. there was no agreement on the electoral calendar, and the current electoral process does not guarantee transparent and credible elections with the participation of all political parties in an equal manner and without obstacles. this non-inclusive decision will only exacerbate polarisation and tension and it will create more obstacles to a political solution. as these events unfolded, we reacted immediately over the bans and difficulties created to prevent the participation of opposition political parties and their leaders, including the exclusion of the opposition platform, mesa de la unidad democrática. the national electoral council has also decided to prevent the participation in the regional elections of those parties that do not present candidates for the presidential election. this is a further blow to the credibility of the process. back in february, as you know, we agreed with the european union member states’ foreign ministers that we would follow the electoral process in venezuela very closely, together with our regional and international partners. on 19 april, we issued a declaration on behalf of the european union calling for free, transparent and credible elections. we asked for an agreed electoral calendar and for guarantees in conformity with international standards. we will reassess the situation with member states after the elections. we will consider the possibility of further appropriate measures to react to actions that would undermine democracy, the rule of law and human rights in the country. in the meantime, i have been in close contact with several of our partners, first of all, inside venezuela – i will come to that in a minute – but also in the region and in the international community, where we have coordinated positions and exchanged views on the best way to address this crisis. as regards our partners inside venezuela, i met here in brussels with both the government of venezuela and the opposition. our goal has always been to support venezuela and to help it hold inclusive and credible elections. on 11 april, i met the foreign minister and encouraged the government to go back to the negotiating table and to show flexibility towards an agreement with all the opposition on the date and the electoral conditions. i also informed the minister that the european union could not accept the invitation from the venezuelan authorities to monitor these elections because the current conditions of the electoral process do not allow a proper observation to take place. we have clear standards for monitoring and observing elections and obviously, in this case, these conditions are not in place. last week i met with the president of the national assembly and the representatives of the four main opposition parties. this was, first and foremost, to show our full support for the national assembly. i also encouraged the opposition to continue working in a united manner towards a democratic and peaceful solution to the crisis. this is not only a political crisis: venezuela is facing huge economic and social challenges. we hear this from so many venezuelans. inflation is expected to reach 13 000%. the population has to deal with shortages of food, medicines, water and electricity. many venezuelans have sought refuge in colombia and brazil, but also in panama, in chile and in the caribbean. the european union is stepping up its humanitarian support for the people of venezuela, both inside and outside the country. the european union will provide eur 8 million in humanitarian assistance and we are mobilising other financial instruments in support of venezuelan refugees and the host countries and communities. against this background, it is time for all sides to engage seriously in working towards shared solutions. the government has the responsibility to create the conditions for free and fair elections, based on a consensual calendar and with the participation of all political parties. we call for a revision of the electoral calendar, based on an agreed and credible timeline. as the european union, we will continue to monitor any development, together with our partners, and we will calibrate future actions in the light of the development of the situation. let me conclude by saying explicitly that the european union does not interfere in domestic politics. we never do. we do not impose solutions. we simply do everything we can to accompany and to help the venezuelan parties and venezuelan people to find their own solution, which the country and the citizens deserve to achieve. this crisis is not a natural disaster. this crisis is a man-made crisis. there is nothing inevitable about it and this means that a political solution is possible and so is a better future for the people of venezuela. we care about venezuela because we care about the people of that country, as friends and as family. we hope for the best for those we care about: a peaceful, democratic, shared political solution for venezuela.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, mrs mogherini, just five months ago this parliament was standing up and applauding the democratic opposition and the venezuelan political prisoners. none of them can be present in the may 20 elections, because some are in prison, others are in exile and others are disqualified. if we are consistent, we cannot accept, we cannot recognize an electoral process in which those whom we have recognized with the sakharov prize cannot be present. in venezuela, 90% of the democratic parties have been declared illegal. in venezuela there are more than 600 political prisoners, not to mention the number of disappeared. in venezuela, 6,300 people were killed in clashes with the authorities last year. just yesterday we learned that the mother of daniel queliz, killed in the 17 protests, committed suicide because she couldn't bear to live without her son. and that political crisis has now also turned into a humanitarian crisis. in venezuela people are dying again of hunger and dying again of common diseases. caritas tells us that practically every day a baby dies in venezuela. and the new york times has done a very painful report on the children who are dying from lack of food in this beloved country. it tells the story of seven-month-old nerianyelis torres, who died precisely because her parents could not find milk powder to feed her. we cannot accept an election in which there are political prisoners. we cannot accept an election in which all parties cannot compete on equal terms. we cannot accept an election in which the electoral authority is not neutral - the president of the venezuelan electoral authority is precisely sanctioned by the european union. we cannot accept an election in which there is no neutral international observation, no decent international observation. that is why, as the european parliament, we should demand that maduro suspend the call for elections in may and call for new elections, with the participation of all political forces on equal terms. we should make it clear that we cannot recognise the result of the elections on 20 may and that they should be held to the consequences that follow. we must also make it clear that we will not send observers, neither the commission nor the parliament - and whoever is going to observe is going as a personal guest of maduro - and that we will continue to pursue the legacy of those who have enriched themselves at the expense of impoverishing and making the venezuelan people suffer. in venezuela the situation has reached such an extreme that it is now only a question of being either with those who cause suffering or with those who suffer. and the european union, without ever interfering with the autonomy, the sovereignty of the noble people, the brave venezuelan people, must always be - as you are doing, mrs mogherini - with those who suffer, not with those who make them suffer.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i agree with you, mrs mogherini, with your tone of prudence and political intelligence on this serious problem we have in venezuela. on thursday last week, a representative of the venezuelan parliament visited the different political groups: eight representatives of the venezuelan opposition, two of them presidents of the assembly - one who was and another who is - of four very important political parties that represent approximately 80% of the vote that occurred in december 2015. they specifically asked us for a statement from the european parliament calling for the suspension of the elections. i know it's testimonial, but they insisted we make that request, and that's why we called you in urgently. i thank you for your presence, mrs. mogherini. why did they ask us for a delay? well, because, as has been said, the election call is advantageous; it is not the same, because there are political parties that are illegal, because there are political leaders who are disqualified, because the electoral system is not fair, because there was no agreement between the opposition and the government. so the problem we have now, ladies and gentlemen, is that we can continue to reiterate our condemnation of the maduro regime, but i would like to express to you with a little balance that solidarity with the request for suspension that i share. we must ask for the elections to be postponed, because they will create a greater divide, a more serious turning point of internal disruption. but i also want to express on behalf of the s&d group that we ask the government and the opposition that, if they postpone the elections, they resume the dialogue; that it is possible to find again a framework of agreement for a clean electoral call and that, at the same time, they are able to find a compromise to get the venezuelans out of the humanitarian crisis in which they live; that they commit themselves to the socioeconomic solution. and that the european union should provide humanitarian aid to venezuela. that is the position of the s&d group.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, mrs mogherini, thank you for being here and for your sensitivity. elections are much more than ballot boxes and ballots, and i say this from the experience of someone who lived under the franco regime, who also had ballot boxes and ballots. but there was something essential, which was freedom, the freedom that the brotherly venezuelan people lack. and as a spaniard, i am also venezuelan, and i feel it in my heart and i feel it in my soul. i, for those people who feel solidarity with certain regimes that under the name of anti-imperialists are capable of making the revolution to the last cuban or the last venezuelan, would recommend that they live five days in venezuela as a venezuelan, as a venezuelan on foot, with all the miseries that a regime corrupt to the core creates, which has been unable to manage with elemental decency the billions of euros of an uninterrupted flow of oil. that venezuela today lacks everything is a scandal in a very rich country, it's something like if qatar were in misery. so my solidarity, and the solidarity i require, is not with the abject maduro regime in venezuela, but with the real venezuelan people. and the venezuelan people are all and each of those who fulfill that phrase that said that exile is a referendum that you vote with your feet. and the hundreds of thousands of venezuelans who have to leave their land because of poverty are the consequence of that abject regime; a regime that has castrated the national assembly; a regime that has dominated the judiciary, because everything is really executive power, that is, the most repugnant oligarchy. in the face of this, we must first demand that the alleged electoral process be stopped. secondly, that the international court of justice should speed up its investigation into human rights violations and that the very short list of seven people who are being punished for crimes against human rights should be completed, because there are not only seven, there are many more.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, we are debating venezuela again. and they have already gone back and forth between resolutions, statements, and so on, thanks to the fact that the epp group and the president of this parliament have violated the rules of procedure of this house for their own political gain. they are in breach of article 156: we needed at least 24 hours before the vote. it is not urgent: they already knew it since the cne announced them in march 2018; we would have had the plenaries of march and april. we are therefore faced with an irregular debate introduced with a conscious disregard for the rules that we have all given ourselves for the functioning of this parliament. nothing new coming from the epp group and a president not of all but of the people's party. something we know well in spain: broken rules to avoid the corruption of the most corrupt party in europe. the people who pushed this resolution use venezuela for everything. that someone from your party takes money, venezuela; that they give a master's degree to one of theirs, venezuela; that there are cuts, venezuela; that other political forces must be attacked, venezuela. a worn-out wild card full of lies. his obsession with venezuela contrasts with his oblivion in latin america. do you know, mr. pons? sixteen children died of malnutrition in colombia. the ombudsman says so, but the people's party doesn't care about those dead. those elections will be made despite your bumbling, despite your puppets not showing up. there are four candidates, there is freedom to campaign, there are audits and, above all, the will to vote of millions of venezuelans, as has been done twenty-four times, even if they do not like it because theirs do not win and even if they do not want it because theirs do not show up. venezuela will be voting on it.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, the epp group has certainly dressed up today. it has been shown because the democratic rules of this parliament, the 24-hour deadline, have been skipped. is this really democratic? i don't think he is. i don't think so, and i look to you, yes. because if they were more concerned about things happening in the spanish state than things happening in venezuela, we would speak more clearly. if they were more concerned about the cuts, the violations, the court sentences, the fact that political prisoners are also in the spanish state, we would be more calm. but to come here and judge a state that has called for democratic elections is not ethical and therefore we must take any path of dialogue to resolve differences, of course. the venezuelan government itself government of the bolivarian republic of venezuela, as it is called would be willing to do so. everyone is willing to do that, including i think the lady high representative, everybody. but ideological traps are not worth it, nor are they traps to make themselves the protagonists in a house which needs to hold democratic debates and not deal with issues affecting third countries which are calling for fair and praiseworthy elections.
madam president, madam mogherini, the people of venezuela cannot stand another second. people are starving, without medicine, persecuted, harassed and imprisoned. and all this cannot be masked by a fraudulent call for elections which are neither democratic nor free. opposition parties are declared illegal and opponents are locked up and disqualified. electoral observation is not allowed and there is not a single guarantee of democratic legitimacy, because the one who has to guarantee it - the cne - is neither independent nor democratic. with this background, we can't do the post-mortem. the european union cannot accept the holding of fraudulent elections, let alone the result of an election rigged in advance. this is not the time for political prudence, but for decisive action in defence of the venezuelan people. i have said it many times: the european union cannot abandon venezuela.
madam president, thank you, mrs mogherini, for once again reminding us that being fair is different from being neutral. and europe is not neutral with regard to venezuela. so what we're doing here is remembering that in february we passed a very comprehensive resolution in which we said that we would disregard any fraudulent electoral process, any electoral process that was not credible, transparent and inclusive. you remembered. he made a statement recently, on april 19th. and what i am asking you here is - as you have rightly said - that when the next foreign affairs council meets this month, you take the steps that we proposed to you, we urged you to take in that february resolution. we urge them to hold such elections, which are fully acceptable, in which the entire opposition can take part, in which the humanitarian channel is opened so that we can carry out all the action we are proposing and, above all, in which venezuela can really return to the democratic path from which it has been turned away. because what we have here is clear that asking for the suspension of a fraudulent election, asking for the suspension of a fraud, is not accepting that fraud, it is giving an opportunity to that government that has taken that suicidal path of destruction of its country to correct and accept the opportunity to accompany them and to solve together what venezuela needs and what venezuela deserves.
madam president, i thank my colleague gilles pargneaux for his excellent document and i also thank the commission, olaf and the various bodies for their involvement in the fight against this fraud, which has a sometimes immense impact, as we saw with the customs vat fraud in 2015, which amounted to 159 500 million, that is to say almost half of what commissioner oettinger has just told us we will have for the next horizon 2020. i am not talking about border fraud or carousel fraud, or what mr pargneaux has said about the customs fraud with china that has just been discovered, or about the losses we are suffering from tobacco smuggling, which amount to some 10 000 million. i mean, we are really talking about very important figures that have to do with something that must be avoided definitely. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. and of course we are committed to the efficiency and capacity of the european public prosecutor's office, the sooner it is put in place the better. and of course i am grateful to mr pargneaux for his approach to the protection of whistleblowers and also of investigative journalists, who are absolutely essential for many of these frauds and many of these stories to reach the public and thus make it easier to fight them. and finally, i just want to express a certain concern. in the new commitment to change in the union's revenue, i see an interest in partially dismantling vat and other revenue. i'd prefer that we don't dismantle that in any way until we're clear on the new revenue.
madam president, this morning we began the debate with the commission on the multiannual financial framework, in a context where the cohesion and solidarity items which are so important to your regional policy portfolio are decreasing. the incorporation of own resources is not clear, but the disappearance of the vat resource, which has proved so important in the fight against fraud, which imports millions of euros at a time of scarce resources to meet the union's essential needs and cohesion policies, is discussed. olaf, eurojust and europol must coordinate their efforts in the fight against fraud, but above all they must use their experience to support the launching of the european public prosecutor's office as soon as possible and with the involvement of as many states as possible. and of course, let us also see, as soon as possible, the commission's commitment, which has been long sought in each of the committees of inquiry that we have supported in this european parliament, to the establishment of a comprehensive procedural, criminal procedural protection for the whistleblower, the whistleblower, the informant, the whistleblower, which highlights the importance of fraud and of combating it at european level.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, it is a pity that we have missed the opportunity to use this report to discuss the socioeconomic model, globalisation, competitiveness, the single market, the need for constantly increasing infrastructure and its capacities. before assuming that we need more and better infrastructure, it would be necessary to propose changes in the model to make it more balanced, more decentralized, thus avoiding the enormous transport of goods and workers, the gap between cities and the rural world and the tensions between overpopulation in some areas and depopulation in others. i also disagree with the approach to public/private partnerships, offering public guarantees, i.e. money from citizens, to private investments. spain is using more than two billion euros of public money to bail out several private investment highways. in addition, insufficient emphasis has been placed on public passenger transport, and in particular rail, both for goods and for passengers, which is the most sustainable and least polluting means. nor has the necessary attention been paid to abandoned conventional railway lines, which have great potential in maintaining social and territorial cohesion and in combating depopulation.
madam president, madam commissioner, our union makes sense, it gains followers and is better understood, and it gets closer to the people, when it is useful. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a good one. it helps to connect us better, eliminates bottlenecks between member states, reduces emissions, combats congestion, improves the combination of transport modes and encourages cross-border cooperation. it is building europe, helping economic and social development and creating jobs. in my country we have an example with the basque y, a priority project since the 1990s. i therefore support the reinforcement of the community's capacity to promote this type of investment by raising the levels of support for investment and the application of the use-or-lose principle to clearly identify priorities and encourage them to be implemented within the time limits for completing the transeuropean networks envisaged in the ten-t. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, harassment is one of the most widespread forms of violence against women, and it is very important. and we must fight it by all means. it is true - it has been said in the house, it has been said by the commissioner - that there are still seven member states of the european union which do not include harassment in their criminal codes. and we have to change this situation, because we have to put in place measures like training for prosecutors, training for police officers, having a non-exhaustive list in our legal systems of what harassment means. all these things must be in our legal systems, and it is very important that the institutions act. so i think there are two things that we have to do fundamentally. the first, as has been said, is to urge all member states to ratify the istanbul convention, which states very clearly that member states must introduce harassment into their criminal codes. and in that respect i join the voices calling on the bulgarian presidency to please ratify the istanbul convention at once, because the fact that the presidency has not done so takes away a lot of legitimacy from a lot of the things it is saying to us. and secondly, the seven remaining member states should be asked to include the question of harassment in their criminal code.
madam president, people are going to wonder what stalking is. well, it's what's known as persistent harassment, where one person forces unwanted communications on another, dangerously cutting off their freedom and safety. at least 10% of the european population has experienced harassment; in most cases, it is women. more victims report cyberbullying every day. also children, who suffer bullying at school, who even commit suicide. i think the consequences for the victims of these events can be dramatic. so as legislators, we have an obligation to legislate and not minimize what harassment really is, which can destroy the lives of victims, so that this crime is punished appropriately. in the european order for the protection of victims, of which i was a co-author, we introduced harassment as a crime in 2012 and now in the implementation. but there are seven countries that have not yet done so, so there are countries where victims are not going to be protected like in other countries. so it is discrimination. we must therefore try to get these countries to ratify the istanbul agreement and, in addition, to make harassment and stalking a crime. so we need a clear definition and regulation to protect victims and prosecute offenders. we cannot have twenty-one legal definitions, because that makes european judicial harmonization and cooperation difficult.
madam president, commissioner jourová, seven member states of the european union have not yet made harassment a criminal offence, as required by article 34 of the istanbul convention against violence against women. and this has very important practical consequences in a context of deterioration of mutual recognition and mutual trust in the area of freedom, justice and security, because when there is no proper typification, there can be the problem of double criminalization which prevents compliance and enforcement of a european order for the protection of crossborder victims, which is exactly what we have approved in this house. in addition, there are 17 member states which have not yet ratified the istanbul convention itself, and it is urgent that they do so. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union of the peoples of europe, and it is also a political union of the peoples of europe. it is therefore intolerable that this lack of commitment to compliance with the istanbul convention in the protection of victims of harassment could lead to situations of lack of protection contrary to the european order for the protection of victims. but in addition to criminal rules, what is needed above all is a judicial system which protects and incorporates, not only in the training of judges but also in sentencing, the gender variable, which affirms an unequivocal and decisive commitment of the whole european union against all forms of violence against women's sexual freedom and indemnity.
madam president, more than nine million women and girls over the age of 15 have been persecuted or harassed. around 10% of the population in europe, mostly women and girls, have been affected by harassment in all its forms. and there are several states in the european union today that do not have a regulation for this type of crime, and therefore cannot be prosecuted. the european union has also failed to ratify the istanbul convention, the most effective international treaty against violence against women. when we talk about harassment, we talk about many types of harassment: stalking crime means the uninterrupted, constant, intrusive pursuit of a subject against his will. it could be bullying. today we celebrate the international day against bullying, since 2013 against bullying, an abuse of power in schools that sometimes has dramatic results. it can be workplace harassment, it can be sexual harassment, it can be cyberbullying. in any case, the consequences are dramatic and we cannot turn a blind eye in europe, lest any case go unpunished. so, all together, let's get this regulated, let's get it defined and let's get it pursued.
in writing. seven eu member states have not yet criminalised harassment, as required by article 34 of the istanbul convention on violence against women. this has very relevant practical consequences in a context of deteriorating mutual recognition and mutual trust in the area of freedom, justice and security, because, when there is no adequate typification, the problem of double criminalization can arise which prevents compliance and enforcement of a european order for the protection of cross-border victims. in addition, there are 17 member states which have not yet ratified the istanbul convention itself, and it is urgent that they do so. it is intolerable that this lack of commitment to the implementation of the istanbul convention on the protection of victims of harassment should lead to situations where victims are not protected. we need a judicial system that protects and incorporates, not only in the training of judges but in sentencing, the gender variable that helps to end violence against women.
in writing. seven eu member states have not yet criminalised harassment, as required by article 34 of the istanbul convention on violence against women. this has very relevant practical consequences in a context of deteriorating mutual recognition and mutual trust in the area of freedom, justice and security because, when there is no adequate typification, the problem of double criminalization can arise which prevents compliance and enforcement of a european order for the protection of cross-border victims. in addition, there are 17 member states which have not yet ratified the istanbul convention itself, and it is urgent that they do so. it is intolerable that this lack of commitment to the implementation of the istanbul convention on the protection of victims of harassment should lead to situations where victims are not protected. we need a judicial system that protects and incorporates, not only in the training of judges but in sentencing, the gender variable that helps to end violence against women.
in writing. seven eu member states have not yet criminalised harassment, as required by article 34 of the istanbul convention on violence against women. this has very relevant practical consequences in a context of deteriorating mutual recognition and mutual trust in the area of freedom, justice and security, because, when there is no adequate typification, the problem of double criminalization can arise which prevents compliance and enforcement of a european order for the protection of cross-border victims. in addition, there are 17 member states which have not yet ratified the istanbul convention itself, and it is urgent that they do so. it is intolerable that this lack of commitment to the implementation of the istanbul convention on the protection of victims of harassment should lead to situations where victims are not protected. we need a judicial system that protects and incorporates, not only in the training of judges but in sentencing, the gender variable that helps to end violence against women.
in writing. seven eu member states have not yet criminalised harassment, as required by article 34 of the istanbul convention on violence against women. this has very relevant practical consequences in a context of deteriorating mutual recognition and mutual trust in the area of freedom, justice and security, because, when there is no adequate typification, the problem of double criminalization can arise which prevents compliance and enforcement of a european order for the protection of cross-border victims. in addition, there are 17 member states which have not yet ratified the istanbul convention itself, and it is urgent that they do so. it is intolerable that this lack of commitment to the implementation of the istanbul convention on the protection of victims of harassment should lead to situations where victims are not protected. we need a judicial system that protects and incorporates, not only in the training of judges but in sentencing, the gender variable that helps to end violence against women.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, the facts which we are debating this evening have sent shockwaves through spain and europe as a whole. there can be no rest in the efforts to combat violence against women. the council, on whose behalf i’m speaking today, has always strongly condemned all kinds of violence against women. the debate we just had on stalking and victim protection shows that work is ongoing to prevent such violence, to punish perpetrators and to protect victims. the council shares the view that the european union’s accession to the istanbul convention will be an important step towards establishing a more coherent new legal framework to better prevent and combat violence against women. honourable members, you will understand that it wouldn’t be appropriate for the council to comment on a criminal law case, adjudicated by a national court. this was underlined in this room at the opening of our session today and i share this view. the justice systems of member states have their own control mechanisms and the victim and the perpetrators have the right to appeal the judgment. it is not the role of the council to interfere in the process. to conclude, there is no doubt that in our societies, there must be zero tolerance of all forms of violence against women. our joint efforts and the message of unity are also needed to ensure the protection of all women and girls in europe.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, allow me to personally wish to the victim of the la manada case a recovery of both body and soul that were abused two years ago by the most violent act. sexual violence is a pervasive form of gender-based violence with serious consequences on an individual and societal level, including emotional, psychological and physical harm to survivors that can potentially last a lifetime. more than one in 10 women in the eu have suffered some form of sexual violence by a partner or by someone else. one woman in 20 in the eu has been raped. the commission is fully committed to tackling all forms of gender-based violence, including sexual violence. this is one of the five priorities of our strategic engagement for gender equality. the victims’ rights directive is the main eu instrument on the rights of victims of gender-based violence. by implementing the victims’ rights directive properly, member states ensure that all victims, including victims of sexual violence, are heard, effectively supported, and protected. allow me to recall that the eu is also in the process of acceding to the council of europe convention on combating violence against women – the istanbul convention – which it signed in june 2017. the convention criminalises sexual violence, including rape. the convention’s definition is in article 36 and clearly states that consent must be given voluntarily as a result of the person’s free will, and that such consent should be assessed in the context of the surrounding circumstances. honourable members, allow me to conclude that, while spain is among the 19 member states that have ratified the istanbul convention, we still have member states which have not done so yet. i understand that the la manada case is subject to appeal, so i cannot comment further on that ongoing process. but i trust that the spanish justice system will deliver a swift and fair outcome.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, violence against women is a heinous violation of human rights. as long as it continues, we can never claim to be moving towards equality, development and peace. we have the right to live without fear, without violence, without guilt, without burdens, without anguish and without uncertainty, and we are here to fight for a right that belongs to us. it is a threat to democracy, it is an obstacle to peace. the facts, no doubt, demonstrate the most absolute contempt for the dignity of women. the aggressors, miserable people who deserve all our contempt for the infringement of the most basic right of a person, sexual freedom and dignity. we all agree that violence, in line with the istanbul convention and the united nations, is violence against the will. it's a risk factor to be a woman, it's not random violence, but only nine out of thirty-three countries in the european union recognize this simple truth: that sex without consent is rape. the rest of the countries, including spain, define rape in terms of violence and intimidation, and that is what the legislator wanted in 1995 in spain; and that is what the courts of justice have applied; that is what the legal framework is in spain. there are two appeals, there will be appeals to the supreme court, which will undoubtedly illuminate future case law. this archaic regulation and this stereotyped regulation lead to the promotion of the absurdity that it is the woman herself who must be responsible for protecting herself from rape. that has to change, but for that, it requires a serene reflection, a calm reflection. it is also urgent that everyone, and especially legal practitioners, be trained in gender perspectives in order to banish stereotypes and prejudices forever. criticizing the judges is not the way. it's not understanding the precious gift of living in a state of law. if we criticize them, we really compromise the trust our justice system deserves from the citizens. the road is another. the road is that of unity, of reflection, of common sense, of human rights and dignity. when i go home, i want to be free, not brave.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, madam commissioner, the istanbul convention on violence against women obliges the signatory countries to criminalize all sexual acts without consent, but only nine european countries explicitly recognise that sex without consent is rape. with the utmost respect for justice in spain, you will admit that i find it difficult to accept and understand a sentence in which the facts are set out in which an 18-year-old girl, terrified, crouched in a cubicle of less than three square metres, with no way out, is penetrated by five men and videotaped, and that victim - as the sentence acknowledges - is only the victim of abuse and not rape. we do not intend to interfere with judicial decisions with this debate, but it is urgent and necessary to demand greater commitment in the fight against violence against women, in the same way that thousands and thousands of women and men have done so in the streets of spain by showing their indignation. how can we explain that this young woman has not been raped because she simply did not confront them because, possibly, fear paralyzed her and because those men just decided to penetrate her and not break her head. can we explain this? in a report on the istanbul convention, this parliament expressed its opinion on the need for training for the professionals in the judicial system and, in this sense, this demand is not new. but unfortunately the spanish government is deaf to this. because the spanish government has breached the state pact against gender-based violence, cutting by 120 million euros the budget line recognised for this matter, and it is essential, as recognised in that pact, to deepen the training of judicial professionals. and that is why we are holding this debate, because we cannot allow the 21st century to be an attack on the freedoms, dignity and integrity of women. because we're here today to tell the victim of the pack and other victims who may be in that situation that they're not alone, that we believe in them. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the question of the 'blue card'. i just want to say to my good friend iratxe garcía that the issue is important enough not to make a weapon of throwing one against another and use the turn to make a criticism of the government of spain. i did not do so in my speech, although the 1995 penal code was made when mr belloch was minister. i think women deserve a debate with a high-mindedness, not a debate that pits one against the other. and i would ask the former chair of the committee on women's rights to take the path of unity, reflection and common sense.
the answer is 'blue card'. i reaffirm each and every word i have said. the unity of the democrats will be in the commitment to the fight against gender violence. and that also means budgets. and that means not cutting back on those policies that are aimed at respecting the dignity and integrity of women. so as long as there are cuts in this area, the socialist party will continue to denounce it.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam jourová, first of all i would like to express, as this parliament has done on several occasions, my deepest respect for the spanish judiciary and its courts. spain is a first-class democracy, founded on the rule of law and the values of europe. we do not question that fact today. what brings us together is our mandate as european legislators, and it is our duty to call on the member states when they do not comply with the international conventions they sign and to promote the harmonization of our european standards. the istanbul convention, the most comprehensive legally binding tool to combat gender-based violence, has already been ratified by most member states. thanks to the commitment and effort of this house and with the invaluable support of commissioner jourová, the council decided a year ago to start the process of accession of the european union to this convention. the requirement laid down in the istanbul convention for criminalizing offences against sexual freedom is the absence of explicit consent. when a country ratifies the convention, it is obliged to amend its laws to ensure its proper implementation. but four years after the convention came into force, only six of the 28 member states still criminalize sex without the need for a beating or a knife to the throat. the problem is not the courts, your honours. the problem comes when governments don't do their homework. and our mandate here today is for the 22 member states that have not yet done so to do so.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, the sentence of la manada shocks us all: five men in front of an eighteen-year-old girl in a portal and there is no violence, no intimidation. that is simply fostering the culture of rape and violence against women. and, if not, follow what many girls in spain have denounced in the hashtag cuéntalo, which is what many girls in europe experience daily. it's a real scandal. and there's a legal problem, obviously, which is the lack of legal recognition that sex without consent is rape. it transfers to the woman the need simply to have to defend herself in the face of a rape situation; it transfers to her the responsibility, which is truly scandalous. therefore, i ask the spanish courts to rectify this judgment. and, yes, you can criticize court decisions, because, like any public servant, a judge is subject to scrutiny. and second, change the criminal code. and i do not know who made the 1995 penal code, but i do know who ratified the istanbul convention and who is responsible for amending the current spanish penal code to bring it into line with article 36. and that is what the spanish government must do, and that is what the european commission must do with all the member states which at the moment in their penal code do not yet have rape punishable by law simply because of lack of consent.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, we have just learned that the united nations considers that the la manada ruling underestimates the gravity of the rape. a sentence that makes us feel more vulnerable and leads us to a dead end. if you don't resist, it's not rape, and if you resist, they kill you, like nagore in the sanfermines of 2008. your honours, only yes is yes. if there is no valid and explicit consent, it's rape. this is the definition of a violation of the istanbul convention, which only six european countries have adopted. there can be no room for interpretation. in the face of unprotectedness, uncertainty and social alarm, the european union must provide women with certainty. this is a specific case, but one which, unfortunately, is multiplying. there's a lot more. and in spain, with the law in hand, a rape victim is not recognized as a victim of gender-based violence and does not have the right to any of the comprehensive protection mechanisms that she would have in that case. we were talking about the european union giving assurances. and that goes beyond urging all member states to implement the istanbul convention in full, not just in part; to implement the cedaw conventions, such as recommendation no 35, which calls for the development of comprehensive protection mechanisms; and to take up the big unfinished business: a directive with a comprehensive approach to sexual freedom and against gender-based violence, which will allow the foundation of a new sexual contract between men and women in terms of equality, respect and consensual relationships. but all laws, ladies and gentlemen, require funding, and especially laws that defend women. march 8th was a before and after in our country. there's no going back. it's women's time. it's our time.
the question of the 'blue card'. i would like to ask the honourable member whether, in addition to ratifying the convention, there is, let us say, a fundamental element, which is the training of professionals who have to interpret the laws, not just of legislators, who also, and indeed this parliament is also considering training in gender issues. but once the law is made and is interpretable, is training in your country in place for those who have to interpret those laws, that is, for judges, magistrates and prosecutors?
mr president, commissioner, i do believe you, and i am not going to deny you that. i want to tell you, victim of the pack, that we believe you. like the navarrese and basque society. like the european parliament, which applauded you during the trial. that we must work to turn this terrible mistake into an opportunity, into something much more than just continuing to shout out injustice. each of us must tell our children that harassing women, treating them like objects is despicable and that we will never support them if they do. we'll get further than if we keep telling our daughters to be careful just because they're women. because we live in a world that makes it logical for us to be afraid. our freedom and dignity need that change. the report also calls for the criminal law on gender-based violence to be harmonised across the union and brought into line with the criteria of the istanbul convention. i have tabled several amendments to that effect which have been incorporated into the report on the european protection order. it is ridiculous that we are required to show women a level of resistance to rape that they would never ask a victim of a robbery to certify that their wallet was taken against their will. nagore laffage, also in pamplona, in 2008, was killed for resisting. finally, we assume, and the judges first, and in all humility, that they must improve their training. too many international reports point out that we suffer a serious shortfall in the area of gender-based crime, and in spain also in community law, or in the area of fundamental freedoms. let us not trivialize the length of a prison sentence, especially if we believe that its purpose is reintegration. let's not legislate on the spur of the moment. let us bet on the assurance that we shall be able to do so.
mr president, the court's decisions must be open to criticism. and this one in particular is very objectionable. in fact, it has caused a justified wave of indignation and has just been criticised even by the united nations. five men cowardly corner an 18-year-old girl and savagely rape her. however, the court considers that it was not a rape, but sexual abuse, since the magistrates do not appreciate violence or intimidation in this savage. what kind of society are we living in? only a society that resigns from its responsibilities would accept without a shrug that such a detestable act is not considered an act of violence. this ruling can also set a dangerous precedent: if a woman resists sexual assault, this resistance can have fatal consequences. if she doesn't resist, there will be judges who will consider that she was not bullied and therefore the rape becomes just sexual abuse. let's not kid ourselves: the problem is not in the penal code. the problem is the interpretation of the laws.
mr president, the forceful intervention of the spokeswoman for the spanish socialists, iratxe garcía, has clearly explained why this matter has come to the european parliament: because europeans are the unease and indignation caused by the case of la manada and europeans is the answer, the necessary harmonization of the criteria for defining sexual violence, which, in accordance with the istanbul convention, clearly says that only yes is yes and sex without consent is rape. but the judicial training response is also european, as we have urged and demanded so many times in the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, because a judicial training with a gender perspective would have prevented the need to go to the supreme court to correct a judgment that has been criticized and criticized. but judicial training would also have made the aberrant private vote impossible, which introduces expressions offensive to the victim and therefore directly enters into what the spanish law deems as the responsibility of the judge: the prohibition of introducing expressions objectively injurious and offensive to the victim, mocking a victim who has rendered a service to ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr. president, sex without consent is rape. the street calls for la manada and the istanbul convention on violence against women, signed by the european union, by most of its countries, including spain, says so. however, only six states in the european union have legislated recognizing all nonconsensual sex as rape. this means that 22 member states 22, including spain still do not do so. so we have archaic, unjust, sexist criminal codes; they are patriarchal. it's time to change and modernize our judicial system for a more ambitious and equal one. the legal definition of rape should be based on the lack of consent of the victim, as it is in the istanbul convention. judges need gender-specific training, more budget and fewer cuts. i therefore call on the commission and the council to draw up a european directive against gender-based violence to make this change possible. women in spain and all over europe need to know that justice is on their side.
mr president, commissioner, what is the point of the member states signing the istanbul convention? spain did it in 2014. they don't apply it. they don't train judges. i wonder how many judges in spain have read this convention. they don't train anybody on behalf of governments. it's pure theater, pure political correctness, but nothing more. and we women are fed up. they say you can't criticize sentences, or judges. man, please! they're public servants, paid with women's money too. with our money too. there's a gap, and a very big one, between the judicial world and women that won't be broken until women get the equal and non-patriarchal treatment that we're getting. this sentence ‒ you know it ‒ violates the istanbul convention and the un convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women. you have to take action. otherwise, what good is this union to us? - what's that? if you can't even protect women. there is an urgent need for training ... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the istanbul convention against violence against women obliges signatory countries to criminalize any sexual act committed without consent. but only nine states explicitly recognize sex without consent as rape. although i respect the decisions of the spanish courts, i find it very difficult to accept and understand a sentence in which the facts of the case show how a young woman of 18 years, frightened, crouched in a cubicle of less than 3 m2, with no way out, is penetrated by five men and recorded on video, and, nevertheless, the sentence establishes that she is only the victim of abuse and not of rape. how can we explain that this young woman didn't suffer a rape because she didn't confront them? because, possibly, fear paralyzed her and because those men just decided to penetrate her and not beat her. we do not wish to interfere in judicial decisions, but it is urgent and necessary to demand greater commitment to combating violence against women and to train judicial professionals in this field, as this parliament has demanded. we cannot allow any more attacks on the freedom, dignity and integrity of women. #yosítecreo this is the way
in writing. the istanbul convention against violence against women obliges signatory countries to criminalize any sexual act committed without consent. but only nine states explicitly recognize sex without consent as rape. although i respect the decisions of the spanish courts, i find it very difficult to accept and understand a sentence in which the facts of the case show how a young woman of 18 years, frightened, crouched in a cubicle of less than 3 m2, with no way out, is penetrated by five men and recorded on video, and, nevertheless, the sentence establishes that she is only the victim of abuse and not of rape. how can we explain that this young woman didn't suffer a rape because she didn't confront them? because, possibly, fear paralyzed her and because those men just decided to penetrate her and not beat her. we do not wish to interfere in judicial decisions, but it is urgent and necessary to demand greater commitment to combating violence against women and to train judicial professionals in this field, as this parliament has demanded. we cannot allow any more attacks on the freedom, dignity and integrity of women. #yosítecreo this is the way
in writing. the istanbul convention against violence against women obliges signatory countries to criminalize any sexual act committed without consent. but only nine states explicitly recognize sex without consent as rape. although i respect the decisions of the spanish courts, i find it very difficult to accept and understand a sentence in which the facts of the case show how a young woman of 18 years, frightened, crouched in a cubicle of less than 3 m2, with no way out, is penetrated by five men and recorded on video, and, nevertheless, the sentence establishes that she is only the victim of abuse and not of rape. how can we explain that this young woman didn't suffer a rape because she didn't confront them? because, possibly, fear paralyzed her and because those men just decided to penetrate her and not beat her. we do not wish to interfere in judicial decisions, but it is urgent and necessary to demand greater commitment to combating violence against women and to train judicial professionals in this field, as this parliament has demanded. we cannot allow any more attacks on the freedom, dignity and integrity of women. #yosítecreo this is the way
in writing. the istanbul convention against violence against women obliges signatory countries to criminalize any sexual act committed without consent. but only nine states explicitly recognize sex without consent as rape. although i respect the decisions of the spanish courts, i find it very difficult to accept and understand a sentence in which the facts of the case show how a young woman of 18 years, frightened, crouched in a cubicle of less than 3 m2, with no way out, is penetrated by five men and recorded on video, and, nevertheless, the sentence establishes that she is only the victim of abuse and not of rape. how can we explain that this young woman didn't suffer a rape because she didn't confront them? because, possibly, fear paralyzed her and because those men just decided to penetrate her and not beat her. we do not wish to interfere in judicial decisions, but it is urgent and necessary to demand greater commitment to combating violence against women and to train judicial professionals in this field, as this parliament has demanded. we cannot allow any more attacks on the freedom, dignity and integrity of women. #yosítecreo this is the way
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, access to school is a fundamental right for all children, but that right is not being protected for the hundreds of thousands of refugee children who are fleeing syria and arriving on european shores or in turkey. according to european law, asylum seekers should be enrolled in school within three months, but a study by the global progressive forum on seven eu countries and turkey shows that it takes even more than two years to enrol in the education system - children who have already lost another two and a half years escaping the war in syria. it also shows that these children do not have psychological support for someone escaping trauma, nor do they have pedagogical support for someone who has to integrate into a culture that is not their own. our battle is to ensure that they have that right.
mr president, the figures from the unhcr provided by the commissioner represent an urgent commitment for the european union. in the commission communication of april 2017, avramopoulos said that the priorities should be to improve the identification of minors, train the responsible staff and expedite relocations, but also the rapid tracing of their families in the countries of origin. yes, yes, i said, but without coercion. for me, identification is an elementary procedure of protection. the best interests of the child must be paramount. special protection for the unaccompanied, the most vulnerable to fall into criminal hands. the european instruments already in operation or pending need to be further developed and used. developing the european search portal, the entry and exit portal, the hotspots, europol or frontex, but with compassion and humanity. more capacity and means for the operatives and rapid legislation and budget for the planned ones. more cooperation with countries of origin and transit. and urgently conclude operational agreements between europol and the countries of north africa and the middle east. that's all i know.
mr president, commissioner jourová, according to unhcr, 30 000 children arrived in italy, greece, spain and bulgaria in the last year of 2017. almost half of them are unaccompanied minors, the most vulnerable, exposed to exploitation, abuse and all forms of violence. the 1989 united nations convention on the rights of the child and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union oblige all member states to comply with the resolutions of the communication adopted by the commission itself on 12 april last year, which means specialised shelters available for unaccompanied children and their families, the appointment of a guardian, medical, psychological support and education for these unaccompanied children, in an extremely vulnerable situation. the commission has also proposed a ban on detention, so that migrant children and their families cannot be detained for long periods and systematically, in compliance with their fundamental rights. and of course my group has succeeded in getting the right to education from the age of three months and the prohibition of... (the president cut the speaker off)
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, mr president, we consider it very important to address the issue of the health and welfare of farmers in the course of their work here today. it is necessary to implement measures to prevent occupational accidents, but it is also necessary to recognise the occupational diseases of farmers and to raise awareness of the risks of the use and handling of pesticides. we know that exposure to pesticides and other chemicals is considered the second greatest health risk to farmers. we therefore believe that, in addition to prevention for their use, serious, rigorous and independent studies by the commission and the member states are needed on the potential long-term effects on the health of exposed people and their relationship to cancers, allergies and other diseases. we also believe that it is necessary to incorporate the gender approach into risk prevention measures in agricultural activity.
mr president, i wanted to take advantage of this very important debate, which is also concerned with the safety of agricultural vehicles. because we all know that ecall has been launched and is currently being implemented and that parliament has called for it to be applied to agricultural vehicles too. because we often find that, just as in road safety the figures have been decreasing in recent years, yet accidents with agricultural vehicles - in which the farmer is also far away, isolated or it is not easy to get help quickly - are often and unfortunately fatal accidents. not to mention those in the middle of road traffic, where, due to the specific circumstances, they are also often serious accidents. we therefore want to call on the commissioner to encourage and encourage the inclusion of agricultural machinery, which is not expensive and expensive, as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – mr president, i want to thank all members for their contribution. the members have made sincere interventions in relation to this report, which i think we will find very useful. i think i can conclude from the debate that we all share the same concerns for the occupational safety and health of all our eu workers, including our farmers and others working in the agricultural sector. and of course, as mr nicholson mentioned, income pressure, weather, all the risks associated with agriculture, contribute at various times towards putting additional pressure on our farmers and therefore it requires more care and attention in terms of how they farm and how they go about their business. as far as the commission is concerned, we will continue to focus on the actions that we mentioned in the 2017 occupational safety and health communication, which includes the updated carcinogens directive. we will also continue to work closely with the member states to support them in line with what madam grapini said – and i agree that the european commission cannot do everything in relation to the rules and enforcement of trying to assist our farmers to actually farm more safely. that is not what has been said by most people with the exception of one speaker, mr colombier. the member states and ourselves need to coordinate better, provide additional supports, and those supports are available under the pillar 2 at the moment – under the targeted measures that i mentioned under pillar 2 – but not every member state programmes them. and perhaps in the legislative proposal that we are discussing at the moment, we could include this as a mandatory reason for the member states to include in their strategic plan the need to look at the issue of farm safety in pillar 2. this may help to concentrate the minds of member states in relation to the measures they need to propose to deal with this issue and the training that is required, as mentioned by mr agnew and others, in order to assist our farmers to be able to cope better and to understand better the need to not take the short cuts that they often do at times of pressure. so, i want to thank all of the speakers that have contributed to this debate, and there is a willingness on my part to do whatever we can in the context of the cap proposal.
the european union's sheep sector, despite employing 1.5 million people, has suffered a loss of 25 million head of cattle since the 1980s and has lost more than 20% of production since 2001. the data on sheep and goat meat consumption are not much more encouraging, because in 2001 the average consumption was 3.5 kilograms per person, while in the last year the average was just 2 kilograms, with the young population reducing its consumption the most. the report i am presenting to you today, which you have had the honour of presenting, highlights this situation and proposes a series of measures to try to reverse this negative trend. a key element of the report is the recognition of the very important environmental work carried out by the sheep and especially goat sectors, especially in their extensive form, in preserving the biodiversity of many european regions. this contribution of public goods should be duly rewarded by the establishment of an environmental payment. this has been my main concern and i am particularly pleased that it appears in the first point of this document which we shall be voting on tomorrow. the report highlights the need to find ways of improving the marketing of sheep and goat products by promoting consumption, especially among younger people, and also to encourage new presentation formulas at the point of sale that are more suited to current consumption habits. the attacks on herds by large predators have been the subject of the greatest debate in the committee on agriculture because of the increasing losses suffered by farmers, who are clearly powerless to deal with this phenomenon. the increase in wolf, lynx, bear and other predator populations as a result of the protection measures we have already introduced in the european union seems to have no limits and is increasingly becoming a major concern for european farmers. this report calls for the introduction of 'to amend, i would say' certain elements of the habitats directive on a timely basis, with the aim of controlling and managing the excessive proliferation of predators, which has been observed in many european grazing areas. but we do not intend to produce a complete revision of the directive. in this report parliament also calls for the sheep and goat sectors to be considered as sensitive sectors in the negotiation of trade agreements with third countries. this demand is particularly relevant in the light of the negotiations currently under way with australia and new zealand. it would be wise to wait for a study of the impact that brexit will have on the european market, as some 48% of the current quota of 287 000 tonnes enjoyed by new zealand and 75% of the quota of 19 200 tonnes granted to australia are destined directly for the united kingdom. the commission should clearly exercise caution when negotiating these new agreements. the european parliament already expressed its opinion on this matter in october last year, considering sheepmeat to be a particularly sensitive element in these negotiations. finally, i would like to say that overall this report is very positive for the sector, so i hope that it will not have any problem tomorrow in being adopted by a large majority in this house. i would also like to send a strong message of support to farmers and thank the commissioner for the sensitivity he has shown to this sector during his term of office.
mr president, media pluralism and media freedom is an important, even crucial, report. we have achieved to allocate adequate funding in the eu budget to support the media pluralism monitor and that’s very, very important and very good. as the rapporteur has stated we tackled very important topics like fake news, whistle-blowers, geo-blocking and licences, always defending freedom of expression which is the crucial and the central point of our concern. the result is not ideal, it is not ‘my’ report so to speak, but it is reasonably good and we accept it. i wish to pay homage to the rapporteur barbara spinelli. she presents a good and intelligent report. my group will support this report tomorrow.
in writing. dear colleagues: tomorrow we celebrate world press freedom day, at a time when freedom of expression and freedom of the press are under threat in europe and around the world. we have recently seen how the spread of 'fake news' has created a 'hybrid war' against the union's values. this is one of the great challenges of our time. the report therefore stresses the need to promote a well-informed public opinion and to ensure that journalists can carry out their work without external political pressure. by ensuring the independence and transparency of the media, we can safeguard the proper functioning of democracy and prevent them from being used as a vehicle for propaganda and indoctrination. i would also like to add a comment on the role that science can play alongside journalism, since both share a common objective: to reveal the truth for the benefit of public opinion. i therefore consider it important to formulate policies based on scientific evidence as a tool to prevent and combat the spread of fake news on the european political agenda.
mr president, we are outraged. we women are outraged by the sentence of "the pack". zero tolerance for gender-based violence and solidarity with the victim. the social cry of the galician women, the spanish women, the european women. the sentence is disappointing, humiliating, inhuman. it is not abuse that the victim has suffered: it is rape, it is an open door to the permissiveness of violence. what are we going to tell our daughters? because this sentence is a judgment on all of us, on all of us, and that is why europe must be involved, because that is what ethics requires of us. that is why we must also oblige the states to comply with the istanbul convention.
mr president, i would also like to draw attention to the great indignation we feel at a ruling which considers the brutal sexual violence perpetrated by the five men of la manada against a young woman in navarre to be sexual abuse. it wasn't abuse. it was rape. it's a sexist sentence, which deals a severe blow to the rights of us women; to our right to feel free, to live without fear of being raped, of being sexually assaulted. it is urgent to end the rape culture and ensure a gender perspective in all those who have to enforce the laws. there cannot be professionals in the justice system who are not trained and gender-sensitive to address issues that are directly related to women. i ask the commission again: when will we have a directive to combat violence against women?
mr president, i too want to join the indignant voice of my colleagues who have spoken before, the voice of hundreds of thousands of spaniards and that of some international bodies who have clearly condemned the very benevolent sentence given in an obvious case of rape, in which a civil guard and a policeman have even intervened. it seems to me that some spanish judges have a serious problem with the concept of violence. when on 1 october the catalan people went to vote peacefully, when the catalan government took absolutely peaceful measures, they were accused of violence, and now that an absolutely violent and execrable gesture has taken place, it is considered that this is not violence. with these judges, democracy really suffers, it suffers badly.
mr president, mr prime minister, speaking of security, for almost 15 years now european cities have been the victims of terrorist attacks, which you remember very well. in brussels, madrid, paris and so on. terrorist acts always come from the same structure, the same organization, the same ideology. and there is a strong indication that this security risk to european citizens is a risk that is still alive and will last for a long time. my question, mr prime minister, is this: given the police response to this insecurity, do you not think that, when we talk about the future of europe, it is time to talk about police coordination in the fight against terrorism? does he not think that, in the interests of the future of europe and the security of its citizens, it is necessary to set up a european counter-terrorism intelligence and analysis unit? do you not think that it is appropriate to talk about a european anti-terrorist police force?
prime minister of belgium. mr president, a few comments on the questions. i share the view of ivo belet, who wants to combine european determination with a sense of pragmatism and realism, which must be reflected in particular in the defence context. i'm not going back. i have already spoken on the taxation issue, and there have been other interpellations on the subject. in my country we have implemented substantial tax reforms in the area of personal taxation in order to reduce the tax burden substantially, firstly on the low and middle income groups. in my country, in three years, the low and middle income groups have been granted an additional thirteenth month by the tax reform. it was a fair move. at the same time, as i said, we are reforming the corporation tax to bring it down to 25% and 20% to reduce the number of certain tax niches that existed, mr tarabella, when your party was running the belgian government. we have put taxation in order, with the support of parliament. i want to be specific about the european budget, mr tarabella. don't misunderstand what i'm saying. i did not say that we did not want to contribute more, i said that there are two subjects in any budget debate. this also applies to the european debate. what are the choices in terms of envelope and amount and how are they used? how do we affect them? how do we set priorities? these two issues need to be considered in parallel. what are the arbitrages that can be made, it seems to me. one important issue involved russia. she was referring to a speech i made quoting machiavelli. that's right. machiavelli, peace through trade. i do believe that there is some truth in that ambition. i have had the opportunity on several occasions to defend my reasoning on russia at the european council. i am in full solidarity with the territorial integrity of ukraine. i am in full solidarity with the implementation of the minsk agreements. there is no shadow of a doubt about that. my country stands in solidarity with our military, in particular, and our fighter planes that help secure the airspace at the borders with russia, but at the same time i do not think that sanctions, in general, are an end in themselves. sanctions are an instrument, an instrument to enable and attempt political dialogue. it is in this spirit, to improve understanding, to try to see how we can manage differences, to find solutions with russia. i am not naive, i can see a number of geopolitical and geostrategic interests and ambitions. we europeans have at least two issues with russia. how can we secure and stabilise the eastern european-russian border? how can we ultimately generate economic development and trade, peace through trade? another topic concerns the situation in southern europe and russia's geopolitical role in regions of the world that may affect, perhaps even dramatically, the future of europe. we saw him in syria. in libya, too. i think we're probably talking too little about libya. i think that on these issues we must indeed try to open channels of dialogue without naivety, with determination, to defend our values, but also to try to make progress on these issues. a word about greece and relations with turkey. the european council has repeatedly expressed solidarity with greece. this was also expressed in the conclusions. a word about terrorism. the people of europe have been struck, and i am well placed as belgian prime minister to tell you about it, by this tragedy of terrorism. the first attacks began at the jewish museum in brussels, in the heart of brussels. then a wave started. it is our values of the rule of law, democracy and freedom that are at stake. so yes, to continuously strengthen cooperation between security services. how is that possible? by having more automatic exchanges of information and not just on a bilateral basis as is often the case today. this is extremely important to me and i will always be on the side of those who want to combine this strengthening of the material, technological and legal means for our security services, but also ensuring full respect for the fundamental values of human rights and the right to privacy. we must indeed concentrate our efforts on raising the level of security because raising the level of security is really guaranteeing the freedom of european citizens.
mr president, mr prime minister, i am a galician in the european parliament. galicia is very attached to belgium for immigration and i am also very attached to it because my daughter was born in brussels. the former mep maurits coppieters said something that is very important for the future of europe: 'the battle for sovereignty is also about solidarity between the peoples of europe'. the european elections will take place on 26 may 2019. you spoke of a culture that respects different identities and in order to respect identities, belgium sent a very strong signal when discussing the ceta treaty with canada. we are debating in the council the electoral threshold, the ceiling. i wanted to thank you for the belgian position, but i would like to know what its final position will be. will we have the electoral ceiling for the elections so that the small political parties that represent diversity are also present in the next legislature?
mr prime minister, thank you for devoting a large part of your speech to talking to us about the fundamental values and reminding us of the tenacity that our democracies require of us. it is important to stress that without respect for european values, no european project is worthwhile. it is important to stress this at a time when some member states are behaving in a worrying way, for example spain where for the past six months catalan politicians have been imprisoned for allowing citizens to vote, yes, to vote. in any case, i would like to know your opinion on what we call the rule of law conditionality, a mechanism that the european commission has incorporated into its proposal for a multiannual financial framework to condition community funds. in my view, it would be a pity if this mechanism only applied to the rule of law and not when it comes to other aspects of democracy, human rights or corruption.
mr president, prime minister michel, although we have listened to you with great interest, we have not heard a word from you on a european pillar in which belgium was once at the forefront: the area of freedom, justice and security and active judicial cooperation between member states - based on the european mandate - , mutual trust and mutual recognition, judicial decisions, to avoid impunity on the basis of crossing borders or the complexity and heterogeneity of criminal legislation. in the space of freedom, we need each other because, as the legendary belgian prime minister paul-henri spaak said, it is not true that the european union is made up of large and small countries, we are all small to meet the great challenges of globalisation, only that some of us know it and others do not yet.
the mediterranean corridor is a transeuropean transport corridor which, through a dual railway network for goods and passengers with international coverage, is to form the backbone of the entire mediterranean arc, connecting cities such as valencia and murcia with the rest of europe. murcia represented a black spot in the route of this corridor, as it did not comply with any of the european railway operating standards. to solve it, in 2014 he was awarded european funds for an amount of almost one million euros, that is, he obtained the money to remove the bottleneck from the layout of his corridor in his passage through murcia. at the moment we can say that not only has this black spot not been removed, but that, in addition, a funnel of enormous proportions is being generated with the current project. a single mixed-width road that will be shared by passengers and goods and that will also divide the city of murcia in two. if we haven't eliminated the bottleneck, where's that money gone? surely, the honorable vice president of this house, ramón luis valcárcel, can help us clarify where these funds ended up, because he was the highest political responsible of the region of murcia from 1995 to 2014.
mr president, the decarbonisation of our economy, if we are to meet the paris objectives, has a fundamental objective, which is to ensure that 94% of fossil fuels, which is what transport consumes, is decisively decarbonised. that is why the package which the commission has just announced is important. this package is in addition to the other package we are working on, the winter package, and in particular the renewable energy directive, which will also set a target for decarbonising the transport sector to promote clean mobility and achieve greater penetration of renewables. i think that is the way the european union must continue. all europeans must benefit from safer, less polluting traffic and more advanced technological solutions, while supporting the competitiveness of our industry, the car industry, which is so important in countries like my own, spain.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the north sea, shared between seven member states and norway, is quite representative of european fisheries. the fisheries here are rich. examples include cod, black spot, hake, sole, catfish, and lobster. and it is this variety of species that makes the north sea a mixed fishery, that is, a fishery where several species are caught at the same time. paradoxically, this creates a problem for fishermen, who face what are known as 'limiting quotas'. this technical term refers to a practical problem. each time a vessel lifts its gear, its catch is a mixture of different species. in principle, fishermen must end their fishing campaign as soon as a single quota for a species is exhausted, especially since the landing obligation prohibits them from discarding any catch in excess of the quota. this is why this plan, despite its imperfections, its technical nature and its constraints, is ultimately less harmful to fishermen. it limits the impact of restrictive quotas by making management of by-catches easier, in particular by allowing some discards, but also by allowing the exchange of fishing opportunities between member states and with third countries. finally, this plan is of course multiannual, which should give fishermen more stability and visibility. it is important that the fishing opportunities for a given stock do not fluctuate sharply from one year to the next. all these measures therefore converge towards greater flexibility and greater visibility for the benefit of fishermen. we shall therefore vote in favour of this plan.
mr president, commissioner, the north sea plan is the second most important of the multiannual plans after the baltic, and the fundamental concern about the precedent it could set for future atlantic plans is that the problem of mixed fisheries is not tackled, much less solved. the european union's fishermen will have to deal with these complexities as a matter of priority and, above all, after the landing obligation. in the light of these precedents, whether we look at article 5 of the tac, which states that other non-target demersal species should be managed on the basis of maximum sustainable yield, or article 6, which states that other companion species should be managed on the basis of the precautionary approach, the effect is that the fishery for the main species will be managed through the most restrictive species, by combining an insufficient tac with the landing obligation. this isn't going to be fixed, and it's going to get worse. on a more positive note, i would like to thank all those who have worked on this issue and welcome the establishment of value ranges that are consistent with achieving maximum sustainable yield and also considering socioeconomic aspects and achieving sustainable levels of all populations covered by the plan.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for your interventions and also for your valuable views. i have taken due note of this very interesting debate and also of your general overall support. let me reiterate: it is of utmost importance that the multiannual plans are made fit for purpose. to ensure this, they must focus on the tools to ensure a practical and sustainable management framework which also allows for flexibilities for our mixed demersal fisheries. the co-legislators have achieved this with the north sea plan, and i didn’t see any major substantial divergences. so finally, let me express also my hope that the european parliament would also work – and we are prepared to continue working with the european parliament – on the other multiannual plans as well. multiannual plans that we have proposed so that they can be adopted and also so that stakeholders can make full use of these plans as well as to agree on tailor-made decisions, for example for the multiannual plan for the western waters. again, my thanks to the rapporteur, ulrike rodust, and also to the shadow rapporteurs.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the union's fisheries sector is facing increasingly difficult and complex challenges, such as the state of resources, rising costs, downward changes in fishing quotas and competition from imports of products from third countries. all this affects the income of our fishermen and puts fishing communities in a difficult situation. this report analyses the key points for optimising the value chain of fishery products in the european union, i.e. identifying what can be improved so that local processors and fishermen retain the majority of the value generated. among the proposals, some of them should be highlighted. the important role played by producer organisations in this sector should be noted. the creation of producer organisations must be facilitated, bureaucratic obstacles removed and their empowerment increased by facilitating access to financial support. an essential element is to include the value chain in the production and marketing plans of producer organisations, with the aim of matching supply to demand, ensuring a fair income for fishermen and ensuring that european consumers find products that meet their needs. another key issue is that the labelling system should be revised in an aspect which i will mention to you. for example, the fao zoning that is included in that labeling. this zoning was created over seventy years ago with the aim of reporting catches, but is not intended or designed to provide consumer guidance. so it is not targeted and is full of information. in addition, mechanisms are needed to improve the selling price, so that fishermen benefit by increasing remuneration for their work, and to promote a fair and adequate distribution of added value throughout the value chain of the sector. the union's fisheries sector needs inter-branch organisations, which are an essential instrument for strengthening producer organisations and giving them greater negotiating power. another demand we want to make from this parliament, and one which this parliament has always made, is that, as provided for in community legislation, genuine preferential access to fishing opportunities should be offered to small-scale and artisanal vessels of the european union, something which the member states do not do. a problem facing fishermen today, and especially young people, is that they currently have no access to training programmes and therefore cannot meet the needs of the sector. we also call for the gender approach to be integrated across all union policies, and in this case specifically in the common fisheries policy. it is essential to highlight the important role of women in the union's fisheries sector and thus strengthen their position. in addition, the fight against unfair trading practices needs to be improved and coordinated at eu level. i take this opportunity to denounce, also from this house, the cut in funding for the new financial framework that this sector is going to suffer in the union. this is a very small fund, for which a cut of eur 260 million is envisaged in the proposal for a financial framework, and which i hope commissioner vella will defend to the rest of the college of commissioners. i would like to thank the rapporteur and all those who have worked to achieve a good final result, which i hope will be approved by a majority.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, in this joint debate let me follow your order. i would like first to thank mep aguilera garcia, the rapporteur on optimisation of the value chain in the european union fishing sector, and the committee on fisheries for their report on this very important issue. i fully concur with many of the points made in the report, and i would highlight three main areas where we have to continue working in order to deliver efficient value chains that allow fishermen to share the opportunities of our internal market. these three points are: first, strengthening the structuring of our sector; second, providing fishermen with adequate tools to operate in the market; and third, ensuring an adequate legal framework. first point: strengthening the structuring of the sector. i share your opinion that producer organisations and inter-branch organisations, by increasing the bargaining power of fishermen, can help them to take the most from the fishery value chains. i believe the common market regulation has already simplified procedures for the recognition of such organisations and reduced the administrative burden significantly. first, the minimum representativeness criteria for producer organisations are no longer set at eu level but at national level, which allows member states to take into account local specificities. second, the production and marketing plans as provided under the common market regulations give full flexibility to the producer organisations concerning the tools available to improve their management and marketing activities. support to these plans is provided under the emff. thirdly, we are also aware that more cross-border cooperation is needed, since we have an eu single market. therefore we welcome the european parliament’s request to carry out a pilot project to promote transnational cooperation among professional organisations. the second point: providing fishermen with adequate tools to operate in the market. i believe we should provide fishermen with the tools which allow them to choose what is best for them – but we should not make that choice for them by imposing measures. production and marketing plans are the most flexible tool we can give to producer organisations to design better sales strategies that increase the profits of their members. i believe the flexibility of these plans should stay as it is, precisely given the complexity and variety of value chains across the eu. i recognise that the issue of market transparency is a critical one if we are to empower small-scale fishermen to exploit the value chains. the commission has been producing a lot of information through its market observatory for fishery and aquaculture products. but here again, we can do more. let me also recall that we will begin in a few days to survey eu consumer habits regarding fish products. this will allow us to detect trends in demand. and we are also planning to provide analysis on online sales strengths. funding is also an important element. the current emff provides a wide array of measures to small scale fisheries to become more competitive – especially to young fishermen – and i think we should build on these positive elements. the recent proposal for the next mff confirms this trend in terms of simplification, and i think this is a positive development for both member states and the sector. the third point, which is the legal framework: as regards the need to ensure the adequacy of the existing legal framework, we have recently launched an evaluation of the marketing standards that apply to fishery products to see whether they can ensure fair competition in the eu market to improve the profitability of production, and whether they can deliver a level playing field with imported products. we have also started to collect evidence on the labelling of fish products and in particular on the provision of information on the origin of the fish, which is an essential element for consumers to adequately value local products. however, i do not think that the commission should create a specific logo for small-scale fisheries. consumer demands varies significantly across the eu, and the relevance of such logos must be measured against the market that operators target. i also do not think that we should take a more interventionist approach and impose caps on the profits that operators in the supply chain make. if these profits are the result of effective marketing activities, the operators should be rewarded for their work. if the profits derive from unfair behaviour, action is needed, and this is precisely why fishery and aquaculture products are covered by the recent commission proposal on unfair trading practices in the food supply chain. i believe the eu internal market offers great opportunities to fishermen. we all share the obligation to support our fishermen in making full use of these opportunities and to ensure that the conditions in which they operate are fair. the eu is the largest market for fisheries products in the world, absorbing a quarter of all imports, and that brings me to the report of mep engström. i would like to thank mep engström for the report, which touches upon a variety of important issues across different policies such as fisheries, trade, food safety and labour standards. the points addressed in your report are of great relevance today, as the eu depends on imports for almost 60% of the total consumed fisheries and aquaculture products. plus there is a high number of non-eu vessels authorised to export fishery products directly to the eu. let me briefly share with you where we already concentrate our efforts to regulate imports and to ensure that imported fish products meet high standards. the fisheries control system and our policy to fight illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing play a key role in this regard. the introduction of the current control system clearly improved the control of fisheries and compliance with the cfp, but more efforts by member states are necessary to ensure full compliance. as you know, we are finalising the revision of the control system to improve the current rules, including in areas highlighted in this report, such as the sanctioning and enforcement system and traceability rules, as well as better use of new technologies, including for small-scale vessels. we will adopt this proposal still this week. the commission is also working on the development of an eu-wide database for the management of iuu catch to support member states’ risk-based controls. this should lead to a reduction in the opportunities for fraudulent imports, and it should ease the administrative burden for member states in terms of verifications. one of the purposes of this system is to ensure that illegally-caught fish does not enter the eu market, neither at the first port of entry nor at any other port of entry subsequently. as regards marketing standards, i take note that your report calls for an improvement in the labelling of fishery and aquaculture products, including those prepared and canned products that today are excluded from the obligation of informing consumers about where they come from. on sanitary requirements, your report acknowledges that the system and the procedures for inspecting and authorising the placing of fish onto the eu market generally functions well. the eu system has indeed been very successful in granting a high level of consumer protection for almost 30 years. only third countries demonstrating that the legislation on fishery products and their control system are equivalent to the eu are allowed to export to the eu. the eu verifies the application of the eu rules in third countries via audits that are regularly carried out in the exporting countries with respect to hygiene requirements for vessels and establishments, but also their enforcement. controls at the eu borders are very strict for all imported commodities and especially for food of animal origin. the rapid alert system for food and feed informs all member states and third countries as regards non-conformities found at the moment of import or on the market and allows them to take the appropriate actions. and finally, as regards labour standards, the commission attaches high importance to the social dimension of the cfp, in particular to ensuring fair and safe working conditions in the fishing sector. the commission welcomes the references in the report, reminding member states of the need to ratify international conventions related to safety and working conditions and to promote ratification internationally, as well as to cooperate actively with other commission services and with the social partners, notably in the context of the social dialogue. i have raised this very issue with member states at the fisheries council in march, and i have written, together with commissioner bulc, to all ministers responsible for transport and for fisheries. however, so far only one member state has actually set the ratifications as a priority for early 2019. this lack of response and of interest gives the impression that ensuring fair and safe working conditions in the fishing sector is not a priority for member states, and this is very disappointing. i am therefore extremely grateful for the european parliament’s support in this respect, but also for the strong support shown by stakeholders during the high-level discussions organised by the commission at the recent seafood expo in brussels where, together with key players, we managed to increase international awareness on the issue of labour standards.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur, mrs engström, for her efforts as rapporteur. it has already been said that the european union is the world's largest importer of fishery products. it is therefore necessary to ensure that imported products effectively meet sustainability, traceability and food safety standards equivalent to those of the european union. this is how we protect our consumers and at the same time prevent our fleet from feeling that it is being treated unequally or discriminated against. we shall see what proposal he makes next week, commissioner. what cannot happen is that products which are rejected at the border of one member state are then accepted at another. in this line of supporting our fisheries and processing industry, free trade agreements with certain countries, especially asian ones, must treat our fishery products as sensitive, and not be overwhelmed by asian competition. the commissioner for trade in these negotiations must be in close contact and coordination with you, commissioner, and i welcome the fact that both these aspects are covered in the report we are voting on wednesday. finally, i would like to ask for support for the amendment which i have tabled with my group, which seeks to put a premium on products from the eu fleet which, as is well known, meets high standards. the formula, commissioner, would be for the commission to consider the possibility of introducing a specific label for eu products, so that the consumer would know better the value of these products from the european union.
member of the commission. – mr president, getting fishermen to work together in producer organisations should remain one of our primary objectives. we have very positive examples from across the eu of producer organisations bringing together small-scale fishermen which have succeeded in increasing their members’ profits. these experiences can be replicated throughout the eu, and we will continue to work in this direction. giving fishermen the tools to understand the market in which they are operating is also crucial, but value chains across the eu are so varied and complex that an optimal exploitation of the opportunities can only be made by focusing on the specific characteristics of each chain and each destination market. funding to support small-scale fishermen is there and it allows them to promote their products and to improve their position in the value chains. funding is extremely important to promote innovation, skills and community-led local development. in terms of value and profit for the fishermen, i would highlight one key aspect which i found could be more present in your discussions. what benefits fishermen most of all is the state of the stocks upon which their livelihood depends. in order to build healthy stocks we need to have responsible fisheries, and all segments of the fleet should contribute towards that effort. one of our key responsibilities remains to ensure that the context in which fishermen operate remains a fair and a transparent one. i have enumerated actions we have already taken or are starting at present, but we have to perform continuously. let me highlight that with regard to the conformity of fisheries products entering the eu market, the fight against illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing (iuu) remains one of our top priorities. we will continue to support third countries to take actions to prevent, deter and eliminate iuu fishing and to encourage other states to apply measures to prevent iuu-caught fishery products from entering their markets. speaking of the coordination between trade and fisheries policy, your report suggests that the eu approach to trade is frequently perceived as being counter-productive to good fisheries governance in the eu, as it opens up the eu market to fish products from countries which do not necessarily have the same standards as the eu. the eu’s recent free trade agreements include provisions on sustainable fishing, and this in itself is already a great step forward. but we will continue to work to strengthen our trade partnerships by including legally binding provisions on sustainability. those trade partners which are granted favourable access to the eu market and which are commercial fishing nations and interested in access to the eu market will have to be committed to the requirements of the eu’s iuu regulation. however, let me be clear that iuu and free trade agreements are two independent instruments, and that any decision within the iuu dialog will be taken regardless of the situation of trade negotiations. as regards the origin of products, we are analysing what information would help consumers most to make informed choices. we will feed this analysis into the evaluation of the common market regulation which will be part of the future evaluation of the common fisheries policy (cfp). the eu market is extremely dependent on imports since our demand significantly outweighs our production. therefore our objective will always be to strike a fine balance between the requirements we set for the importing of products and the need to ensure the availability of supplies at reasonable prices for consumers. finally, let me welcome very much the references in the report reminding member states of the need to ratify international conventions related, as i said in my previous speech, to safety and working conditions and also to promote ratification internationally, as well as to cooperate actively with other commission services and with the social partners, notably in the context of the social dialogue.
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to mention in this last speech the report by mrs engström. i think a great deal of work has been done on this report. i would like to make one small point: the aim of this report is clearly to draw attention to the fact that the european union must have and require the same standards for all products marketed in its territory. this seems obvious, but it's a fact that's not happening. all fishery products in the european union should be required to meet the same level of requirements in relation to management and conservation measures, as well as hygiene standards and working conditions. this will help to create a fairer market and increase the standards for the exploitation of marine resources in third countries. that is why i think it is a very good report and i shall be voting in favour of it tomorrow. finally, commissioner, i would like to say that strengthening producer organizations is certainly a substantial element. i would have liked him to have said that we are going to have the 260 million euros which have been left out for the sector in the proposal for a financial framework, because i think that with such a small fund, no cuts should be made. you mentioned it, but you said the financial framework has to evolve. yes, evolution, yes; cutting, no. this is the way it is. i would also like to say that i think we need to take a more risky approach to the labelling issue. i mentioned the fao zones: they are for something else, not to provide clarity to consumers; i think that does not contribute to providing clarity. it will therefore have to be worked on in the future, but also the labelling of processed fishery products needs to be modified. finally, i regret the news you have given us here today about the necessary ratification of international conventions on safety and labour standards. it is very regrettable that the commission has addressed all the member states and only one has shown willingness to reply. so i hope that this will change, because i think it's a very substantial element.
the joint debate is closed. the vote on the report by mrs clara eugenia aguilera garcía will take place tomorrow, tuesday, and the vote on the report by mrs linnéa engström will take place on wednesday.
the next item is the debate on the report by mr herbert dorfmann, on behalf of the committee on agriculture and rural development, on the future of food and agriculture (2018/2037 (ini)) (a8-0178/2018).
i would like to thank mr dorfmann and all those who have contributed to this report for the result and the work done in a very short time. i would like to emphasize in my speech the joint response we have given from the socialist and democratic group to the european commission's communication. we have worked hard to achieve this, but we are not sure that parliament's own-initiative report will be taken into account, since the legislative proposals are being tabled this week. however, our work has been arduous and i would like to highlight some of the proposals put forward and supported by my group. the common nature of the community's agricultural policy must be defended and the renationalisation of this policy must be rejected. the flexibility granted to member states should not lead to distortions of competition, either economically or environmentally. the new model of implementation raises many uncertainties in this respect, ladies and gentlemen, because, although the commission insists on denying it, the uncertainties are on the table. there must be 100% european union financing of direct payments, and coupled payments must be maintained. we think it is important for production and sectors at risk. we need an adequate budget for the cap, at least at the same level as the present one, in constant euros, commissioner. that is what we want, as well as a mandatory european 'capping' modulated according to jobs, support for generational change and, finally, a cap that supports farmers in the transition to a more sustainable agriculture.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank mr dorfmann for the work he has presented to us here today. i would like to say, first of all, commissioner, that solving the serious problems affecting the countryside and farmers today at the level of the european union requires more than just the distribution of aid: it requires political decisions; it requires a strong public agricultural policy. and in that connection i would like to mention the major shortcomings of both the communication you have presented and the report we are discussing. the question of prices: prices are necessary to cover production costs and labour; otherwise we will not install anyone in the countryside. secondly, the regulation of production is another fundamental element which cannot be left solely and exclusively to voluntary action. thirdly, a production model compatible with the environment, with the conservation of water, air and soil. and since i have little time left, i would not like to end this speech without referring to another aspect which has been overlooked in this communication, namely the question of equality between women and men in the field. we need the cap to recognise co-ownership and to allocate 50% of the aid between both spouses or between both members of the couple.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank the rapporteur, mr dorfmann, and all the other rapporteurs for the work they have done in bringing this dossier forward in record time so that we can vote on it, as the commissioner has said, before he presents us with his proposal in a few days' time. we are at a decisive moment for the cap and, on the one hand, the future multiannual financial framework must not lead to a drastic reduction in the funds allocated to this policy. i am sure that the committee on agriculture of the european parliament intends to work along these lines. the second major concern i have, which is also present in this report, is directly linked to the budgetary question, because we must prevent excessive subsidiarity from leading, in time, to a renationalisation of the common agricultural policy. we cannot tolerate that this community policy, which plays a very important role in ensuring food security in the european union, should cease to be a common policy. this would only create imbalances and competition problems between producers in different member states. the report we are debating today is therefore the first step in the reform process which will continue until the end of the legislature. and as such, it's a good step.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
in writing. between 2012 and 2016 organic farming grew by 18,7%. retail sales on the eu organic market grew by 54% between 2010 and 2015 and the total area of organic farming in the eu increased by 21% during the same period. at global level, the organic sector continues to grow strongly, driven by a significant increase in consumer demand. although organic farmers receive a 'green' payment under the cap and can also receive support for conversion, the challenge facing the sector is to ensure a steady growth in supply and demand. with prices for organic products higher than conventional products, the market struggles to meet demand and the premium that consumers are willing to pay has the potential to encourage some fraud. the growing demand from consumers, the market opportunity for producers and, above all, the great advantage as mitigation of emissions from a sector that does not plan to reduce them, make greening the cap not enough, so even objectives for organic agricultural production should be set, as in other sectors of the economy.
mr president, commissioner, mr caputo, i think this is a good report, but i think the fundamental problem with the lack of interest of young people in getting involved in agricultural activity is the price they pay for the products. and so the question is to have a decent income. i think - and a colleague has already mentioned this - that it is not an attractive profession for young people today and that is why we have this major problem, because they do not get a decent income. and we must contribute to it. i would also like to point out that we sometimes mention the commission making policies for access for young farmers. but not just the commission: the member states with their powers can do a lot too; they have powers to allow access for these young people. and the land use problem is true. how is it possible that we get a low price for agricultural products and yet the value of land is exponentially very high? what's going on? a big bubble? what is it? i don't know; something must be going on.
mr president, the truth is that some of us would have preferred to have been able to go together in this exercise rather than mr marinescu going out, let us say, alone. that is why the socialists have preferred to go hand in hand with the liberal group and, of course, to invite the whole parliament to finally take a position of support and call for a strong ecm for the next decade. the truth is that the previous one, which we have been discussing for the last few years, was a success story at a time when there has been a glaring lack of investment in infrastructure in europe for almost ten years. the added value it has generated has been a great help to us. it is also thanks to the enormous energy of inea, and we must give it credit. however, we must be realistic about the next period. we find that there is, at the moment, a cut of 12 and 13 per cent, something that has to be recognised and therefore the battle is to replenish it. secondly, we would need urgently synergies between transport and energy, because clean cars are already leaving the factories and buyers do not know what to do, where and how to manage them. and finally, we also need implementation in countries whose national programmes do not correspond to european commitments. that's also urgent.
mr president, commissioner, transport infrastructure is a fundamental element of the european union's action and one of the most visible. the connecting europe facility (cef) has a high european added value: investments in infrastructure improve competitiveness; strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion; enable connectivity and access to the internal market for the outermost regions; and are a growth engine. the cef therefore needs to be strengthened in the area of transport in order to complete the core network by 2030. i would particularly like to stress the need to increase the connectivity of the regions and ports on the atlantic front of the european union. this requires the incorporation of new sections into the ecm's atlantic corridor. i therefore ask you, commissioner, to include in the review of the ecm you are carrying out these days the amendments to the atlantic corridor put forward by the spanish government and affecting the north-west of the iberian peninsula. finally, i hope that the budgetary allocation of the cef will be able to meet the needs of this very important initiative.
mr president, we could call the connecting europe facility the infrastructure fund for wasteful and overburdened infrastructure, and i will explain why. over the past four years, the facility has allocated €1.2 billion to infrastructure for the polluting fossil gas. the largest investment will be in the electricity interconnection between spain and france via the bay of biscay. this interconnection has received eur 578 million, but has been the subject of 6 800 complaints from the public. in gatika and in bizkaia many groups are organizing against him. and there's no shortage of reasons. interconnection has a high risk of additional costs for people and businesses: according to a report by the regulators themselves, with all the planned infrastructure, the tariffs will increase by 3.5%. the interconnection will not help renewables at all either: for example, with the entry of the interconnection through catalonia, the restrictions on wind farms increased sixfold. if you really want to help renewables get in, you should think about the end of coal and nuclear power.
mr president, on 3 may the council of europe identified spain as one of the countries which has not fully implemented any of the recommendations relating to the fight against corruption. moreover, the recent recommendations of the council of europe to spain mention the negative impact of corruption on economic recovery in our country. the gürtel ruling directly points to the popular party as directly and collectively responsible for a corruption plot that shames our country and also limits our economic options. corruption does undeniable damage to the economy, but also to democracy: looting the coffers of the state is not loving spain. but this problem is also a problem for europe, a problem that splashes and calls into question the democratic quality of the european institutions and their commitment to transparency. it is time to act consistently and, above all, forcefully against corruption.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the time was right to come forward with an ambitious budget proposal. economic recovery, although uneven, is there as are growing challenges and new priorities. the urgent need to counter euroscepticism by showing that the eu matters and delivers is there and even some of the most influential member states said that they were ready to put more money into the budget to fill, and even go beyond, the brexit hole. instead of that, and with the exception of some limited improvements, we have a budget proposal that cuts spending in crucial eu policies and falls short of ambition both in volume and in content. i ask myself: where is the road map and what is the framework for this budget? what is the rationale behind the numbers? if we want the european union to be the frontrunner in implementing the un sustainable development goals, why is there no clear commitment to that end in the mff proposal? if we want the eu to lead the energy transition and the fight against climate change, why don’t we set priorities and have spending goals that are more ambitious? if we actually agree that the eu should be an instrument to fight against growing social inequalities, why then reduce the european social fund by 6% and have more spending in military research, but less in social justice? i don’t think that these are the right priorities.
mr president, commissioner, after a brief assessment of the proposal for the new financial framework on 2 may, we have the opportunity today to discuss its content in greater depth and i would like to make a few comments. first of all, i think there is a lack of narrative, a lack of strategy, in this proposal. what do we want to achieve with this financial framework? what is the message we want to send to europeans, and, above all, how are we going to respond to the challenges and ensure that we are delivering on our commitments? i remember that in the last debate mr juncker said that the wind was already blowing in favour of european union and that we should take advantage of it. and after seeing this proposal, i can think of another phrase that says "there is no favorable wind if you do not know where you are going". and we don't have to invent any direction. we have the sustainable development goals, seventeen goals that are common to the entire planet. and i would like the proposal for a financial framework to have reflected this strategy. how can we promote responsible production or combat desertification if we reduce agricultural funding by 16% or how can we reduce inequalities if we reduce cohesion funding by 12%? or how are we going to end poverty or promote decent work if we reduce the european social fund? or how are we going to achieve equality if we don't have budgets that tell us what the impact of our policies is on promoting gender equality or empowering women and girls? there is nothing of the sort in this proposal. i think they have simply squared up the brexit bill with some reinforcement in erasmus and innovation, introducing security as a new priority and cutting back on the pillars of european policies. we know that there are reservations on the part of certain governments. we know that in addition to the will, resources are needed, and that is why we have made a revolutionary proposal for the revenue of the european union: let us make companies pay more, let us make speculators pay and let us make countries pay for their wealth. in the debate on the state of the union, juncker recalled kohl and delors, and said that europe moves forward when it shows its audacity, and i do not... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the proposal for a multiannual financial framework unfortunately does not reveal anything new. it is the european union itself that is moving away from the real needs at a faster rate. increasing the level of spending by 0.08% will be insufficient. it will be unable to compensate for inequalities, reverse deindustrialization or promote the energy transition and the production model. but, if that were not enough, you are also cutting back on the common agricultural policy. the common agricultural policy needs reform, not a 15% cut as you propose. a reform that reaches farmers, and not just landowners and agribusiness. so that we can finally achieve food sovereignty. however, 17.2 billion more for what you are calling 'security and defence'. and you can call it whatever you want, but those funds are only going to go to criminalize migration and oversize the military industry so that it ends the overproduction of arms exported to conflict zones like yemen. the commission is devoting a european budget to armaments. that is illegal and they don't care and the council... (the president withdraws the speaker)
madam president, european funding is necessary to further strengthen economic, territorial and social cohesion between member states and between regions. it is also essential for our agriculture. i certainly understand the difficulties of brexit. i know there are also new needs - borders, immigration, defence. i am concerned, however, that cohesion and farmers may be harmed now, when populism and euroscepticism are on the rise. i would like to stress in particular the problem of population decline, that is, low birth rates and an ageing population. we must also tackle this very serious challenge from the european union. the fertility rate in europe is already below 2% per woman, which does not ensure a generational change. in galicia - spain - for example, it is a very serious problem. i therefore believe that when establishing the criteria for allocating funds between regions, the criterion of regional gdp per head should be complemented by others, such as demographic decline. also with the unemployment. and it seems to me clear that the regions most affected by the crisis must be given special attention.
madam president, we have updated the directive on posted workers, a directive dating back to 1996, with the aim of better protecting this type of worker - we must remember that there are more than two million of them in europe - and of preventing unfair competition, because we recognise that it has become in some ways a mechanism for abuse and exploitation and that it could sometimes distort the whole labour market. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. after today we will be closer to a europe which protects workers, wherever they come from, and to a europe where workers have the same pay, the same social protection and are covered by the same collective agreement in the same place. a europe that protects its workers more and claims legitimacy from its citizens.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report on optimising the value chain in the fisheries sector because i think it goes some way towards recognising the importance of small-scale and local fisheries within the european union. i also think it is positive that you mention the need to guarantee decent quotas for the small-scale fleet and, in this connection, i would like to call on the commission to put an end to the discrimination which is being made against small-scale fleets in the allocation of quotas. i also think it is important to recognise the need for public establishments such as schools and hospitals to consume and buy products from artisanal and local fisheries and to include the possibility of direct sales in marketing strategies adapted to local specificities. all of this has led me to vote in favour of this report.
mr president, in the next decade six out of ten spanish farmers will reach retirement age. the generational shift is certainly one of the main challenges in the sector. many pensioners are forced to continue receiving cap payments because of their low incomes. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. in addition, the cap allocates only 2% of the national budget to the integration of young farmers. there will be no more support for young farmers if we are not able to guarantee a higher budgetary allocation. nor can we talk about price volatility just to talk about financial instruments. we have to face the real debate. how are we going to protect young farmers from a world market that lets whole crops rot just to drive up food prices? in 2007, when food was first listed on the stock exchange, a crime against humanity was committed. the future of agriculture will be black if the european union does not abandon this road map on which it is blind to continue with free trade agreements. we must focus on small farms, local production and short circuits. it's the only way we're going to defend our farmers and our food.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, never before has the israeli army caused so much damage in gaza. and unfortunately, despite this damage, the european response has been very weak. one hundred and seventeen dead, including thirteen children, and thirteen thousand wounded. they weren't all hamas, mr. preda. all wounded by explosive ammunition, which destroys the bodies. gaza is facing a human disaster of inhuman proportions, so we want an independent commission to investigate what has happened. and we affirm that israel has a right to its security; of course. israel is a friendly country, but the netanyahu government is clearly breaching a part of the agreement that israel has with the european union. and what we want is for the european commission to refer israel to the court of justice and to assess whether israel is complying with the human rights clause and the respect for international law contained in the agreement. because if any part of the agreement is being breached, the european union must speak out. of course, we must try to help gaza. we must try to put a peace process back on the agenda. because, ladies and gentlemen, president trump's agenda is aligned with president netanyahu's agenda. and that's the big change that has occurred in the relationship between israel and palestine. we no longer have an ally in the united states to lead the peace process that we have all always defended. we don't even have an ally in the united states that's going to respect the united nations security council resolutions. and we have to take note of that as europeans, because the political landscape has changed radically since trump is in the white house. the world is much more insecure, everything is much more dangerous; precisely because president trump's agenda coincides with president netanyahu's agenda. israel has a right to its security and the palestinians have a right to their security and their dignity.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when the united states announced the move of its embassy from tel aviv to jerusalem, the high representative, on behalf of the twenty-eight, expressed her concern about this decision. today, a few months later, we must recognize that this concern was well founded and we must also express our dismay at the high number of dead and wounded - including children - and make an appeal from this parliament to prevent further civilian casualties. the commissioner referred to the request made by the european union and some of its member states to set up an inquiry mechanism within the united nations human rights council. i would like to recall, madam president, the terms of the resolution adopted on 19 april, in which this parliament called for an escalation in the region to be avoided and for human rights to be respected, including the right to peaceful demonstration, as well as israel's right to live within secure borders; and it also pointed out the fact that the two sides in this conflict have legitimate aspirations which can be expressed in a very clear demonstration, which is the formula of two states living in peace, coexisting peacefully within secure borders. and to do that, it is important to resolve the status of jerusalem, in the sense referred to by the commissioner, on the basis of un resolution 478. i would like to conclude, madam president, by saying that in these difficult times in which we live, it is important that the european union and the international community act with courage and determination to achieve a just and lasting peace in palestine.
madam president, i am still appalled by what has happened in gaza in recent months. the israeli army has already killed over a hundred palestinians and wounded thousands of them. in the face of these crimes, which cannot go unpunished, in the face of trump's irresponsible policy and in the face of the continuing illegal policy of colonization by the israeli government, the european union needs to put the ambiguity behind it: on the one hand, to criticize the occupation, but on the other, to tolerate it. let us make israel respect international law, end the blockade of gaza, end the occupation of palestine and allow two viable states, with an arms embargo, an arms embargo on israel, with the suspension of our association agreement with israel as long as human rights are not respected, with an effective policy of differentiation, banning the import of products from the colonies. it is time to reset the union's policy towards israel. occupation, colonization and repression must have an economic and political cost.
madam president, many people rightly consider gaza not to be a strip of land but an open-air prison. in this open-air prison, crises are happening, and each new crisis brings not a sum of devastating effects, but a multiplication of the previous situation. before the latest events, which have caused so many deaths and injuries, it was already suffering from a food crisis caused by the trump administration's cutting of funding to the united nations agency for palestine refugees, to the point that on july 1st, food supplies may be suspended for more than a million people, 70% of the population of gaza, who depend on this aid. now the health system is in crisis: how to treat 13,000 wounded in a health system that is already short of supplies. we welcome the commission's three million aid, but we must make a greater effort not only to provide aid but also to achieve peace.
madam president, since 30 march israel has killed 121 palestinians - 61 on the day the us embassy was moved. zero israelis have been killed. i think we've had enough of equating victims and executioners. mrs mogherini has questioned in a statement whether israel is respecting the right to peaceful protest and the principle of proportionality in the use of force. the israeli energy minister's response is that europeans can go to hell a thousand times over. that was his answer. israel is the occupying power, according to the geneva convention. it does not respect the un agreements, nor the peace agreements it signed in its day, for example, the oslo agreements. israel has had an agreement with the european union and its states since 1994. and, as has already been said, article 2 speaks precisely of respect for human rights. otherwise, the agreement falls apart. i do not know, ladies and gentlemen of the council, how many more palestinian deaths we have to put on the table, how much more ethnic cleansing is needed for you to start acting and not have the hypocrisy that you are having.
madam president, commissioner, this european parliament does not have the executive capacity to intervene in a conflict that has lasted for seventy years, but it does have the executive capacity to demand that the commission be consistent with the issues raised in the resolutions we have adopted in this house. the first is that israel has a right to exist and to security, but the palestinian people also have a right to a state of their own in a two-state solution; the second is that the disproportionate use of force which has cost over a hundred dead in gaza and thousands and thousands of wounded is unacceptable and therefore deserves condemnation; the third is that the investigation promoted in the un human rights council should be supported; and the fourth is that the unilateral decision of the trump administration to move the embassy which has given rise to this terrible bloodbath is not only wrong but also contrary to international law - un resolution 478 - and that there is therefore no acceptable solution for the european union in the future which should not respect international law and humanitarian law.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, above all, the violence in nicaragua should stop immediately. what is needed to start again is a genuine dialogue: this is the only way to see peace and prosperity in this country. it has been over a month since the announced reform of the social security system, the first protests and the first violence against protesters. tens of people have been killed since then, many of them students. let me start by conveying again our sincere condolences to the families of the victims, and expressing hopes for a quick recovery to all those who were injured. immediately after the unrest began, we reacted publicly and condemned the violence. the people of nicaragua have the full right to protest peacefully and to freely express their disagreement. it is vital that the police forces act with maximum restraint, that armed groups are reined in, and that all perpetuators of violence are brought to justice. over the last weekend, violence unfortunately escalated again: we have seen reports of more casualties among peaceful protesters, resulting from attacks by armed and organised mobs. yesterday two universities were attacked, as well as a pro—government radio station. participants in the national dialogue – be they students, private sector representatives or bishops – continue to endure threats and intimidation. these threats must immediately stop, as must violence in the country. the nicaraguan authorities agreed to invite the inter—american commission on human rights to the country, and this was a really positive development. it is now essential that the 15 recommendations by the commission are followed up. yesterday’s meeting of the ‘three plus three’ mixed commission, with government and opposition representatives, has agreed to start implementing the first three recommendations: first, a halt to repression and arbitrary detentions; second, respect for the right to protest peacefully; and, third, an independent, international investigation into the violence to guarantee truth and justice. this is an important first step and we hope this decision will be implemented with no delay. we also consider it important that the government authorises a visit by the united nations high commissioner for human rights to the country. meanwhile, all efforts must be made to push the national dialogue forward, and let me thank the conference of bishops for the important and crucial role it played in these very difficult circumstances. after three sessions, last week the dialogue was unfortunately suspended due to a lack of progress. yesterday’s meeting of the mixed commission has agreed to restart the dialogue later this week, and this is another positive sign and surely very positive news. we very much hope that dialogue will indeed restart as announced: it is the best hope to find a way out of the current crisis. to achieve this objective, several guarantees should be provided to build trust among participants in the dialogue. the first step should be to ensure the necessary security to all those who take part in this dialogue. on another front, the european union is also following very closely the dialogue between the organisation of american states and nicaragua on political and electoral reforms, which was initiated after the 2017 municipal elections. this process should take into account the demands presented by civil society at the national dialogue, as well as the latest recommendations issued by the inter-american commission on human rights. the people of nicaragua are asking for greater social justice and increased political accountability, and they have the right to have their voice heard. on our side, as the european union, we are ready to support a broad dialogue on democracy and justice between all sectors of society and the government in nicaragua. we care about nicaragua and its people and we are already engaged in the country in support of human rights, education, economic growth and in the fight against climate change. our latin american friends know we are a partner for peace and for reconciliation, and we have already accompanied several peace dialogues in the continent. if our help is requested, we are ready to step up our engagement to help overcome the crisis. let us help nicaragua end this crisis through dialogue and mediation, before more blood is unfortunately spilt.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, before i begin my analysis, let me express my solidarity with the two efe journalists who have just been attacked and mistreated by the repressive police of the regime. history, gentlemen, is repeating itself. the sandinista revolution that legitimized their struggle against the dictator somoza has gradually turned into an authoritarian power. the model, cuba. you take out a dictator and you create a dictatorship of a new kind. the current situation in nicaragua is creating a democratic crisis in the face of the dictatorial deviation that the country is suffering. the correlation of forces created by the social revolt forced the regime to accept the possibility of a dialogue and the mediation of the church, after 76 dead, 868 wounded, 438 detained and countless wounded and missing. sadly, the current government refused to accept the conditions for dialogue, so even the bishops decided to suspend the negotiations indefinitely. the popular response was immediate. the problem of possible exit scenarios from the crisis is yet to be resolved and the type of exit is not clear. ladies and gentlemen, the president is trying to hold on to power by diverting or sending a message of force to silence popular pressure. this is unacceptable. the exit implies the elaboration of a roadmap and concrete measures to move towards the expression of the majority will. this implies, ladies and gentlemen, change. it means regime change. the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, can and must take a stand and the motion for a resolution we support is reasonable and proportionate to the gravity of the facts.
the s&d group, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, has tabled a number of amendments to the report. it is not just a response to social security measures; what has become clear is that there is a citizenry that is fed up, tired of a democratic system that is not, that does not work as such: concentration of media and economic power in a family clan - to give an example - an opposition that is not well constructed; lack of an independent judiciary; corruption... there was a need to protest and the people have taken to the streets. the truth is that the demonstrations have been met with a tremendous repression, with a repression that has caused more than eighty deaths and hundreds of injuries, a totalitarian repression considered typical of an almost dictatorial system. i wonder, ladies and gentlemen, in the name of what revolution is it appropriate to respond in this way to popular demands? i wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how it is possible to defend a proposal which aborts liberties and democracy in the name of socialism. i want to tell you - i am a socialist - that there is no socialism without freedom and democracy. that is why the european parliament will tomorrow be asking for four things which i believe are fundamental: condemning the government, because it has acted repressively and deserves condemnation; embracing the families of the victims; demanding that the government stop the repression - there can be no repression when there is a demonstration and a demand for freedom like this - and that the dialogue continue, that the dialogue include important political reforms and that these reforms may incorporate a reform of the electoral law and, probably, elections which allow the people to speak and decide.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, it is curious how violence is treated in this parliament: if it is a government that is friendly to the majorities, solidarity and condemnation; if it is not, what we call street terrorism is tolerated - often to the point of exasperation - in other places. nicaragua is currently experiencing a situation of violence which must stop, which is illegitimate. the gue/ngl group regrets and condemns the loss of human life, and we have called for those responsible to be brought to justice and for the government to investigate and prosecute any disproportionate use of force. the positive is the launch of a national dialogue with the mediation of the church which was resumed yesterday, the incorporation of human rights recommendations or the launch of an international investigation mechanism. but this violence must stop. yesterday, peaceful protesters burned down a media outlet; today a young man and a policeman were killed. it is intolerable that an attempt is made by violent means to overthrow an elected and legitimate government. this parliament and the european union must accompany the dialogue and condemn the violence and destabilization in nicaragua.
madam president, our role is to call for an end to the violence and repression and for the continuation of the dialogue - which has begun and has cooled - between the ortega regime and the opposition, civil society and human rights organisations. our role is to ask for dialogue. because it will be history or psychology that will explain how a commander of the revolution, who courageously freed his country from a bloody regime like that of somoza, has become someone who defends the interests of the oligarchy and represses his people. that's not for politics to explain. but the inter-american commission on human rights has made recommendations that ortega should listen to; the episcopal conference, too; and civil society, gathered at that dialogue table, too. if ortega listens, then it will probably be possible to open a new road in nicaragua, and it will be the nicaraguans who decide where it goes. our role is to call for dialogue, for the end of repression and for a new era to begin in nicaragua.
mr president, the honourable sandinista movement has been betrayed by a corrupt regime, the regime of daniel ortega and his wife, mrs rosario, which today reproduces the same repression for which and against which the sandinista people, the nicaraguan people, fought heroically in 1978. today the sandinista oligarchic regime, the oligarchic regime of daniel ortega is a disgrace to nicaragua and to the western world. i am not talking about something new to you: in june 1978 i had the honour of taking part with the sandinista front in the fight against the genocidal somoza regime and i was wounded on the southern front. and, by the way, in that place and time, when we were fighting somoza, there was no member of any of the political parties that now support daniel ortega.
mr president, the events in nicaragua since 18 april are very serious. to date, 84 people have died, some 860 have been injured and more than 400 are detained. the violent repression by the security forces and by armed irregular groups was truly unacceptable. obviously, it was necessary that facts of this gravity should be investigated and i welcome the fact that a delegation from the inter-american commission on human rights was able to visit the country. yesterday began the partial follow-up of the recommendations of the report of this commission, but also yesterday it was regrettable that serious acts of violence occurred in the center of managua with one dead and dozens of injured. unfortunately also - as luis de grandes has said - two journalists from the spanish news agency efe were assaulted by the police. the so-called 'national dialogue' which the bishops' conference has firmly promoted, a dialogue which began on 16 may but was interrupted on 22 may, must also be advanced. i therefore welcome the fact that a meeting of the joint committee on this dialogue took place yesterday: it is very important that progress is made on the so-called 'democratization agenda'. and that's the end of it. we must keep a close eye on the situation. nicaragua is a friend and partner of the european union in the framework of the association agreement with the countries of central america. but this agreement is based on the so-called 'democratic clause', which requires respect for the principles of the rule of law, democracy and human rights.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, as mrs malmström has reminded us, the period of exemption granted by the president of the united states for exports of steel and aluminium expires next saturday. unfortunately, this policy has been applied in other areas, such as the trade and investment agreement with the union, the trans-pacific agreement, the agreement with mexico and canada, the paris climate change agreement and the nuclear agreement with iran, to which i have just referred. a few moments ago, there was a call for the european union to take the lead in these times of protectionism. well, i want to say that commissioner malmström and the european commission have shown vision in very difficult times, they have moved quickly and they have started or concluded important trade agreements with vietnam, with singapore, with canada, with japan and with mexico. and we hope, commissioner, that you will conclude the agreement with mercosur quickly. you've obviously behaved in a prudent, measured way. but it was recalled here that the president of the united states has instructed a study to be made, on the basis of section 232 of the 1962 act, as to whether the importation of cars could affect the security of the united states. we ask, commissioner, that the european union act through this positive and constructive agenda but at the same time act in accordance with its convictions, with determination, in the event that the legitimate interests of the european union are affected.
the question of the 'blue card'. mr etheridge, you have just pointed out the importance of being able to have a trade agreement between the united kingdom and the united states to avoid a trade war. i suppose you'll recognize that canada and mexico have been countries equally threatened by the united states even having a free trade agreement and renegotiating another better free trade agreement, which has done no good. in that sense, if the united states were to impose tariffs on the european union, despite the fact that the european union and the commission are criticizing any trade war, how would you assess it? what is your answer?
mr. president, trump is endangering the stability of the world. the european union is a reliable, law-abiding ally of the united states and certainly cannot be exposed to the constant threats of tariff increases on the grounds of unjustified national security. it must therefore be definitively excluded from such measures and continue to lead the defence of global governance, because it is precisely in the wto and in international forums that we must jointly face - the european union and the united states - the challenges we share in the face of industrial overcapacity, unfair competition and trade imbalances. i therefore also consider the us blockade of the appointment of judges to the wto appellate body to be unacceptable. we must redirect the situation and support the strategy of the european union, of the commissioner: intelligent, proportionate, based on coordination with our partners and in the union. and i also ask you to help me to defend the interests of spanish table olives.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i think that libya is the perfect paradigm of the irrelevance of this parliament and the european union. we have spent years working on the metaphysical idealism, the government of fayez al-sarrach, which is unknown and unrecognized by anyone in libya, except in new york and brussels, and ignoring the reality on the ground. i would recommend that any member of this parliament who tries to walk from the fayez al-sarrach presidency, for example, to al-baladia street in tripoli, will surely have the opportunity of being kidnapped ten times every hundred metres by any of the militias. i would also recommend, for example, that you travel at night, unattended, unprotected, between tobruk and benghazi, and you will find that there is no problem, because you can do it. i did it without any problems, without any difficulty. what have we done in the european parliament? we have recognized the unknown in libya that is fayez al-sarrach and we have made him our only actor. and, of course, when you're trying to solve a serious problem -- because it's about dead people -- just thinking that legality and metaphysics are what matter, reality is much more important than our own ideas. there is a phrase in spanish that says: "if reality contradicts our ideas, so much the worse for reality". the problem is, they're actually dead. and when i hear that there is a government in libya, i say: what happened to the tauerga agreement, where the libyan africans who lived there could not return, despite the agreement of the fayez al-sarrach government with its own militias, who say they obey him and, in fact, do not obey him "the militias of misrata", and that can not be done. and what do they tell us about the battle of sebha between the suleiman aulad tribes, supported by battalions of the misrata militia, against the tubu just a few weeks ago? the fayez al-sarrach government is a fiction and the european parliament has worked with fictions and the european commission has worked with fictions and the coast guard are nothing but local gangsters converted into coastguards, because they are the same people who used to be involved in the smuggling of the immigrants themselves. let's deal with reality and stop doing metapolitics.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, this recommendation on the situation in libya covers issues that we share, such as the fact that there is no military solution or that stabilisation will come from an inclusive national and regional agreement. but one of the problems is the failure to assume the original sin, the failure to understand that the crisis in libya is not a natural phenomenon, but is the result of a nefarious management after a criminal intervention of nato. the result: a failed state where chaos reigns. from a donor country in africa to a country whose population is in need of humanitarian aid; from a safe country to a labyrinth where terrorist groups are based that are spreading throughout the sahel. we are totally opposed to the eubam mission, which is to arm a gang of pirates and criminals to prevent refugees from coming to europe. the security approach will not solve anything as long as we do not address the political, social and regional problems that were brought about by the western intervention that destroyed the libyan state.
madam president, madam mogherini, thank you also for the information you have just given us, and i congratulate mr panzeri on his report. libya is a very important country involved in a very serious political and security crisis which also affects the mediterranean region, the sahel 'neighbour to the south' and the european union itself. there are many different illicit traffics that go through this huge territory, where there are so few efficient state structures, and these traffics are then projected beyond libya. the european union must make its full contribution to finding solutions. we must continue to support the efforts of the secretary-general's special representative, mr salamé. a political solution is needed, there seems to be no military solution. but we must be realistic, take into account the realities on the ground, conduct an inclusive political process and put in place state structures. i know that there is a process of political dialogue going on from the grassroots in different parts of the country in the framework of the so-called national conference. there are also some successful local elections such as in zauiya, the fourth city in the country, which will be followed by consultations in other municipalities. but when i read the briefing given to the security council by the special representative, mr salamé, on the situation in libya on 21 may, it was clear to me that, alongside some lights, there are still too many shadows, too many unresolved problems. you come back from the paris conference, mrs mogherini, with a certain optimism. it is true that the agreements of the meeting, especially what he has told us about the commitment of presidential and legislative elections in december - three months earlier, i think, there will be an electoral law - allow us to harbor some hope. the truth is that we all have to contribute to finding a solution for this country, including also the other arab countries involved in this crisis.
member of the commission. – madam president, i don’t need to repeat how important economically, politically and, in particular, symbolically schengen is. we all know. i would like to express my thanks to the members of the schengen working group for their continuous work and in particular the european parliament’s ‘mr schengen’, mr carlos coelho. thank you for your report and this very timely debate. it comes at the moment where we are reflecting a lot on the future of our common external border management but also on how to enhance our internal security and free movement in the schengen area. the thing is, we need to be pragmatic but without ever forsaking our values and fundamental principles. this is why one of our concerns is how to better make use of the existing tools at our disposal to fully implement the legislative measures we have recently adopted and to conclude pending legislation. but we also look to the future. how do we see the future as regards borders management but also as regards the free movement of european citizens in an area without border controls? my answer to this is clear and simple. we need to take joint responsibility for the management of our common external borders but also ensure mutual trust among member states and everything that is implied by this. during the last three years, as we all know, we have been working together intensively in order to safeguard schengen. during the last three years schengen has been confronted with the most important challenges since its conception. several member states have reintroduced temporary internal border controls to address irregular migration flows and secondary movements and also in reaction to the multiple terrorist attacks. but temporary internal border controls cannot and should not become permanent ones. that is why it is so important to preserve the right balance between ensuring mobility, on the one hand, whilst guaranteeing security on the other hand. it is important to use, but also to improve, all the tools we have at our disposal to ensure high standards of security. it is precisely to maintain this balance that the commission has proposed, among others, to amend the schengen borders code, which is also one of our priorities. member states retain the main responsibility when it comes to security. the temporary reintroduction of border controls is a legitimate measure available to member states confronted with a serious threat to internal security or public policy in exceptional cases. we should never forget this essential point: that internal border controls are, and should indeed remain, exceptional. our proposal does not intend to make controls at internal borders easier or permanent. on the contrary, we have proposed reinforcing the procedural safeguards. the reintroduction of border controls should only be a measure of last resort, with the council having the last word. and the views of the other member states affected by such decisions must be duly taken into account. alternative solutions, such as police checks and cross-border cooperation must always take priority. i would also like to stress the schengen borders code amendment, which aims to adapt the rules for the reintroduction of temporary internal border controls to the current needs to respond to evolving and persistent serious threats to public policy or internal security. in the meantime, the commission is in contact with the member states concerned on lifting internal border controls as soon as possible, allowing them to maintain the same level of security by using other tools, such as reinforced police checks and increased cross-border cooperation. we all agree that we should return to the full, normal functioning of the schengen area as soon as possible. i made this very clear in all my recent contacts with the countries that have done it. mobility inside our schengen area requires secure external borders. this is exactly why since 2015 we have made significant progress in our external borders management. a key element has been the establishment of the european border and coast guard agency, bringing together the national border guard authorities of the member state and the european borders and coast guard agency, which now operates along the european borders. as part of our proposal for the next multiannual financial framework which we put forward on 2 may 2018, we proposed to almost triple the expenditure for external borders management, migration and asylum, which could fund 10 000 border guards by 2027 for the european borders and coast guard agency. the eu budget for the management of external borders, migration and asylum would reach more than eur 34.9 billion overall, compared to eur 13 billion for the period 2014-2020. a new integrated border management fund will help to guarantee a high level of security in the european union by ensuring strong and effective border management, while safeguarding the free movement of persons. if adopted, it will reinforce financial and operational support given to member states in securing the european union’s common external borders. we equally need to know who is crossing our borders and be able to stop those who pose a threat whilst ensuring mobility for bona fide travellers. we have already made substantial progress. the development of the entry/exit system is starting. we have also reached a political agreement on the european travel information and authorisation system (etias). i would like to thank you for your work on this file too. we also have proposals on the table to strengthen existing systems, such as the schengen information system where negotiations are about to close, and the european criminal records information system in respect to third country nationals convicted in the european union by creating this centralised system on third-country nationals. again, we need to reach swift agreements on these files. we also aim to improve the exchange of information and to make our systems interoperable to help us counter terrorism and serious crime and secure our borders, with full respect for data protection. our proposal on interoperability will be a game-changer in this respect, and we need to complete the work on it by the end of this year. as you can see, we have many building blocks in place to strengthen our external borders, but we need to make yet further efforts to preserve schengen, to make it even stronger and more resilient. finally, let me repeat: the absence of internal border controls constitutes the very essence of schengen, but in a common area without border controls, security concerns are common too. this is why we must do everything to preserve the careful balance between free movement and mobility, on the one hand, and security on the other. this is also what our citizens expect from us, and we can only achieve this through a coordinated and united schengen framework, which brings me to my last point. schengen should include romania and bulgaria too, because a more inclusive schengen is a more secure schengen. we call on the council to finally decide on bulgaria and romania to join the schengen family and croatia too, once all criteria are met.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, i congratulate mr coelho on his work and commitment. the schengen area and the free movement of persons are threatened. the re-establishment of internal borders by some member states has undermined the principles of solidarity, cooperation and mutual trust. restoring internal border controls has proved to be easier than removing them. new controls to regulate the movements of nationals have been the response of some states to the arrival of asylum seekers and refugees and terrorism. the causes are not the essence of schengen, but related areas such as the shortcomings of the seca. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-turkey association agreement and the eu-turkey association agreement. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the ongoing reform of sis ii is also indispensable. in addition, sis and vis systems should be operational at all times at border crossing points. the new legislative proposals on interoperability of databases are necessary to optimise eulisa's role with the entry/exit system. political will, solidarity with first-entry countries, strengthening of existing systems and interoperability are essential tools for strengthening the schengen area. and yes, i also say "bulgaria and romania, inside".
mr president, commissioner avramopoulos, it is clear in this debate, as in so many others, that if the anti-europeans and the europe-haters, who are increasingly numerous in this house, hate schengen, it is precisely because schengen is the most precious asset of european citizenship, which european citizens increasingly identify with the best of the history of europe as we have built it. that is why, when schengen is in crisis, as a result of what was called the migration crisis, the pressure on the external borders, and the effectiveness of schengen was suspended for almost three years, the european parliament, through the committee on civil liberties, did the right thing by setting up a working group, reporting to assess how we can be more effective and guarantee loyal cooperation and solidarity in the management of the external borders, while maintaining the free movement of persons within the union. that is why we support this report. that is why we want, contrary to the views of the europe-haters, that schengen should return to normal as soon as possible and that the movement of people within the european union should be fully restored. and the objection we raise to this report is related to the security bias which seeks to impose a schengen border on biometric controls and interoperability, as well as a return policy which has nothing to do with free movement across borders. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is 'blue card'. with all due respect, mr jurek, you have not asked a question but expressed your opinion. and the first thing i did when i arrived in the european parliament was to read the treaty of lisbon, which specifically mandates the european union to build together, in a spirit of solidarity and cooperation, a policy of free movement of persons, as well as an integrated management of the union's external borders. and it must be made more european as soon as possible, so that we have a bigger and better europe, including bulgaria and romania in the area of free movement of persons. that is the objective promised by the treaty of lisbon and, as long as we have a contradiction against this asset, which was the most precious of the european union, the european union will continue to fail to deliver on its promise.
the rapporteur. mr president, i take this opportunity of the debate on victims to express my deepest condolences to the families of those killed today in liège. i want to say that we are not just talking about words here, i want to give you facts too, because this directive protects all victims and also the victims of terrorism. i would also like to thank the co-rapporteur, mrs mlinar, for her work, as well as all the alternative rapporteurs and the secretariat who have worked with us. since i came to this parliament i have seen the lack of victim laws and i have encouraged the commission to come forward with a directive on the support, rights and protection of victims of crime. today, seven years later, i am here again to discuss how we can improve that directive, because what we have now is not enough. the 2011 directive paved the way for a harmonisation of victims' rights, but not all member states have done their homework: some countries have not implemented it well. that is why we are making recommendations in this new report to the states to fulfil what we said in 2012. in addition, we introduced new guidelines to improve the lives of victims. some relevant issues are the role of victims during criminal proceedings, particularly witnesses, because they often suffer secondary victimisation. we have also stressed the importance of the istanbul convention in the fight against gender-based violence. for example, it is important to harmonize the crime of harassment because there are still many countries that do not have it. we also wanted to emphasize that, regardless of the state in which the crime was committed, the victim's rights are guaranteed. another important part of this report is the protection of children. in most cases, children are victims of gender-based violence and are the most vulnerable. one of the main failures we have seen in the implementation of this directive is that neither the professionals, nor the judges, nor the police have received sufficient training and education to explain to the victims that they had these rights. we have also included in the report the importance of awareness campaigns to inform victims and society about how to enjoy these rights. perhaps the most significant achievement of the directive, of which i was rapporteur in 2012, was what was called 'individual assessment' and, unfortunately, not all member states have been able to carry it out: an individual assessment is essential to know the specific needs that a victim has. the failure to implement article 22 has created many problems, for example, for victims of terrorism. so i worked to make sure that they were represented, because in the 2012 directive they were not - there was only a small reference. the latest attacks in europe - paris, brussels, nice, berlin, barcelona, liège - have caused a great many victims. the commission notes that the 2012 guidelines do not provide for any specific rules on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women. in the various hearings we have held in this parliament they have complained about how they have been treated, and in this report we have highlighted the needs that these victims of terrorism have told us during these months. we should guarantee them not only their economic rights, but also their right to memory, justice and dignity. the report also calls on the member states to establish legal mechanisms to criminalise the glorification of an act of terrorism if this humiliates the victims, because it can cause second victimization. and finally, mr president, i would like to end by calling for a regulation or directive for victims of terrorism.
i would like to thank the commissioner for his report and for the work he has done in the past. of course, this parliament must always, always stand by the victims and the families who are suffering at this moment in a situation which is really difficult to sustain. i therefore join in those condolences, and also in a debate such as we are having now on the implementation of the 2012 directive on the protection of victims. i think it is important, first of all, to put on the table the importance of the directive itself and the impetus given to the fact that in europe we have to be aware that citizens need to establish this legal framework for the protection of victims throughout the european union. and i would also point out that when this parliament debated the content of this directive, it did a very important job of incorporating the gender perspective and incorporating the victims of gender-based violence into the victims. it is a fundamental question, because we are talking about possibly the greatest scourge that exists at the moment in europe and in the world. and so the gender perspective could not be forgotten. we must also now take account of the way in which this directive is being implemented and put into effect through the judicial transpositions in each of the member states. and it is really worrying to see that six years later not all the countries, not all the member states have transposed this directive into law. and so we cannot say that today in europe the protection of victims is guaranteed in each and every territory of the european union. it is a matter on which action must be taken. the importance of the istanbul convention has also been discussed here - and the report refers to it - and the victims of gender-based violence are also mentioned, the victims and their children, whom we must not forget. and so i think it is essential to take into account that this report refers to how the current situation can be improved and this report refers to the need to support judicial systems with more means so that they can move forward with work on raising awareness about victims of gender-based violence. we are talking about this report on the directive, but this very week, in mrs guteland's report on justice indicators, there is also reference to this: the need for the judiciary to have sufficient resources to advance that gender perspective, which is fundamental in the training of judges and which is fundamental in ensuring that women victims of violence feel protected. so we have to keep working, we have to keep pushing, and this parliament will continue to defend the victims of gender-based violence and to defend the need to end the biggest social scourge europe has at the moment. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is 'blue card'. mr hadjigeorgiou, i think the question was not addressed to me or to the rapporteurs. but in any case, i say to you that this parliament must be sensitive to all the victims. in each of the circumstances, which will be difficult, we will have to look at the situation, but in any case i invite you to read this report and that we may join forces to work for the protection of the rights of the victims.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, first of all i would like to express my condolences and sympathy to the families of the victims in liège. in the european union, one in three women is a victim of violence at some point in her life. thousands of women have taken to the streets in european cities, calling for more action against gender-based violence. and this too must be made a reality, a reality also for all those who are victims of crime outside their country of origin, whether they are workers, students, tourists, legal migrants and, also, undocumented. we therefore call for the expansion of victim support services and more training for professionals, with a special focus on victims of gender-based violence, women and girls and also lgbti people. we need more 24-hour reception centres with legal counselling for women victims of gender-based violence and their children. it is our duty to ensure that every woman in the european union can feel safe to speak out against gender-based violence and to put an end to what we consider to be a real social scourge.
mr president, commissioner avramopoulos, this debate is illuminating on the situation of the protection of victims of crime in the european union, because this parliament passed legislation in 2012 to strengthen that protection and, six years later, the breaches are as egregious as they are painful. the european union agency for fundamental rights highlights the increase in victims of sexual crimes, violence against women, discrimination and hatred, trafficking in human beings, as well as terrorist crimes. and that is why we must condemn today the terrorist attack in liège and express our full solidarity with its victims. but at the same time, we must ask the commission to make this report a tool to correct the shortcomings in coordination, information, adequate funding, awareness raising, coordination of measures between the member states to prevent the gaps and differences between the criminal laws of the member states from continuing to fuel this growth in victims and crimes. that is the commission's task and that is the lesson to be drawn from this report, which should be welcomed so warmly.
mr president, i would like to begin by expressing my solidarity with the victims of the attack in liège and my support for the belgian authorities. i would also like to thank angelika mlinar and teresa jiménez-becerril for the working environment created around this report, which will make it possible to improve assistance to victims of crime throughout europe. the amendments tabled and accepted have made it possible to specify procedures, mechanisms and resources to solve two of the fundamental problems facing victims, especially in the face of indiscriminate and massive attacks such as those usually carried out by terrorism: the lack of reliable and practical information to find help and the need to access it through a single instance, avoiding a long and complex pilgrimage through different services and levels of the administration. after years of talking to and working directly with victims, my amendments - most of them accepted - reflected these repeated and shared demands. the local and regional authorities providing most of the services for victims must be recognised for their knowledge and efforts and included in the planning of these policies.
member of the commission. – mr president, this was indeed an interesting situation: commissioner avramopoulos listened on behalf of commissioner jourová, who should have been here, but sometimes agendas clash. so, of course, on behalf of the whole of the commission we want to thank the co-rapporteurs for this very important debate and very important report indeed, and we will also share all the comments with the responsible commissioner, ms jourová. the rights of victims are, of course – as you point out – the cornerstone of many of the eu’s policies, and we will continue to ensure that they are fully protected in our member states.
the rapporteur. mr president, i have listened to all the comments and they will all help us to keep insisting, because our work does not end here, the work of defending the victims does not end here; this is another step we are taking, but we still have a long way to go. this was an instrument that was created for all victims, so that they would have the same level of protection throughout the european union. we are talking about 75 million victims of crime a year - serious crime/petty crime - we are talking about victims of human trafficking, of organized crime, of children, of people with disabilities, of victims of terrorism, of victims of gender-based violence. all this has been heard here. and i do not think that this report - as has been heard - goes beyond its powers. i'm not sure. if we have to defend a victim who is transgender, a victim of hate crimes, we do it. there is no need to have an ideology when we talk about victims; all victims are linked by a common thread which is what we are defending here. and yes, mrs dodds, i agree with you when you talk about ireland: it is disgusting that a victim of terrorism should be treated the same as its executioner. we have to suffer that in the basque country, where the man who killed my brother and his wife is being honored for leaving three children, aged 4, 7 and 8, orphans. but it is, unfortunately. i would like to thank the commissioner for his departure, but please tell him that, commissioner malmström. i am reassured to know that there are sanctions and that there will be legal action against those who do not comply with this directive. i ask you to be real and to insist on it. and i have nothing more to say, except thank you to everyone who has brought us here and helped us in our work.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report. the union's trade defence system is based on wto rules, which enable its members to respond to unfair practices by exporting countries by restoring a level playing field and avoiding the market distortions they cause. but the world has changed a lot and time has shown that the current rules are insufficient and ineffective. after years of council blockade, it is indeed good news that the european union is modernising its trade defence instruments, although, frankly, we socialists would have liked to go further. but it is true that there has never been a greater need for effective instruments to deal with unfair trading practices which harm our industry and cause major job losses, which are not justified by a decline in competitiveness but by unfair practices which exist - let us not forget - because they are allowed. and politics is for changing things. that is why the reform we are going to adopt tomorrow is so important, and it will enable us to have more effective instruments, by imposing higher anti-dumping and anti-subsidy duties, by introducing the 6% minimum profit margin - which i think is a very important element - and by speeding up procedures, although i think that more progress should be made in this respect. the commissioner's point is also important: to strengthen transparency and predictability. and i am very pleased that, thanks to the position we have taken in our group, which has been supported by all and defended by the commission, the new regulations incorporate the higher social, environmental and labour costs borne by our companies - or fortunately borne by them - and that they are taken into account when dumping is calculated. i also think it is very important that the trade unions should be able to take an interest and to apply for the initiative. instead of trade wars, fair and loyal rules to avoid competition.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs saïfi, on her excellent contribution to the evaluation and impact of the european union's trade policy. as the commissioner and other members have pointed out, the circumstances in which the 'trade for all' strategy was adopted are clearly very different from the present situation, both in the internal dimension, with the decision of the united kingdom to abandon our project, which will have important consequences in the commercial sphere, and in the external projection, with the retreat of the united states and the rise of other powers. i am more interested in the version of the report that the rapporteur is proposing for the future than in this analysis, and in this connection i believe that the important thing - as we have done in the debate on the protective measures adopted by the united states - is to encourage the commission to go deeper into the network of trade agreements, to stop with the demagogy and to defend the interests of businesses and our citizens. i think we must put the emphasis on principles - as the report clearly states - on trade that is fair, that is equitable and that is based on principles. i think it is also important to stress one of the facts in the report, and that is that our companies benefit to a much lesser extent than the companies of our partners. we must put a stop to this situation and also emphasize the principles which must really be an instrument, which must serve our trade policy. time is of the essence and, as mr fjellner has pointed out, in the digital age we cannot move slowly.
mr president, mr bettel, you have spoken of the erasmus generation. there are many members who have also been on erasmus. i will also ask you a european question concerning the fight against tax evasion by multinationals and unfair competition. after the luxleaks revelations, which revealed some very advantageous tax agreements, the controversy over the tax benefits granted to certain companies was central. during mr juncker's time as prime minister, luxembourg systematically obstructed progress in the european council's working group on taxation. what is your position today? i would also remind you of the fundamental role of the european parliament's tax committee, which has issued a recommendation on the protection of whistleblowers. you spoke of freedom of expression, but the two whistleblowers on trial in luxembourg are symbols of the lack of protection for whistleblowers in europe. in april 2018, the commission published its draft directive on the protection of whistleblowers. what will your proposal be within the european union?
mr. president, mr. prime minister, first of all, thank you for coming before us today. as this is a debate on the future, i would like to refer mainly to young people and i welcome, first of all, their commitment to the erasmus programme, which you have experienced yourself. i am also pleased that the multiannual financial framework which president juncker presented to us at the beginning of the month provides for a significant increase in funding for this programme. but i also believe that young people need to be better informed in schools about the background, the objectives and the functioning of the union's institutions. you can't value what you don't know. and that is why i am very pleased that on 22 may the council adopted the commission's recommendation on the promotion of common values, inclusive education and the european dimension in education. this european subject, so to speak, seems to me very appropriate and i very much welcome this initiative by commissioner navracsics. secondly, i would like to point out a serious problem which is now affecting the whole of europe: the low birth rate, ageing and, consequently, a future with fewer young people. we are facing a demographic winter, which is already here in some regions, and i would have liked the demographic question to have been given a little more weight in the multiannual financial framework when allocating funds between the regions. i would like you, mr prime minister, to share with us some thoughts on these issues of young people and demographic decline.
mr president, since the fight against climate change is a major challenge facing the world as a whole, but also the european union, i believe that the leadership that luxembourg is exercising in the council of ministers to promote an energy transition towards clean energy is very positive and can be strengthened by the addition of claude turmes to the council of ministers. i encourage you to continue in this direction to achieve greater penetration of renewables in the next directive. but it is true that, having heard of the multiannual financial framework and, yesterday, the proposals for the cohesion fund, and since demographic decline is one of the major challenges facing the european union, i cannot understand how the depopulation criterion is not part of the criteria for redistributing resources and thus putting the spotlight on an important challenge. i would certainly ask you, mr prime minister, to take this criterion into account and to make the objective of depopulation a priority objective in the council of ministers of the european union.
mr president, mr prime minister, i share your view that unanimity is essential for an effective foreign policy. you have said that the policy of peace in europe is a weak policy based on unanimity. i ask you whether you do not think that this unanimity is an insurmountable obstacle to fair taxation in the european union, to sustainable taxation with the internal market. do you not think that unanimity must be overcome in order to achieve mechanisms in the field of taxation which will make it possible to overcome the existing disloyalty between the states in the field of taxation, in the field of tax harmonization? you say we must wait for the world to move forward on this matter. but then we will never make progress, because the very construction of the welfare state is the consequence of some countries starting as vanguards, as we did with social security, the progress towards justice. we have fair social security today because a hundred years ago we made that very breakthrough.
mr president, mr bettel, you have heard in this debate on the future of europe words of appreciation for luxembourg, a founding country of the european union from which great figures in its construction have come. a small country, one of the smallest, but i have not heard a word about the ravages of inequality, not precisely between big and small - caused by the crisis - but between rich and poor, between creditors and debtors. and it is essential, in the face of inequality, that when you talk about taxation, you do not talk about lowering taxes, but about ensuring that luxembourg is not the depository of the illicitly acquired fortunes of the corrupt in the middle of europe; and when you talk about resources for the european union, you express your willingness to contribute more as a rich country to the construction of a better europe than this, because that will be the key to being able to combat the malaise and populism that have redefined the political landscape of the most impoverished by the crisis in italy, greece, spain; because, without tackling this problem, there will be no future for europe.
mr president, the general tone of the european commission in dealing with unemployment or industrial problems, such as the world overproduction of steel and aluminium, has been to do nothing. in spain, in 2009 the directorate general of labour approved an employment regulation file of arcelormittal for twelve thousand employees which has been extended until the end of 2018. and all this, despite the global profits of this multinational: 3 670 million euros in 2017. the position of the european union should be to defend the working people and not the profits of the multinationals. we should protect ourselves from imports in order to have the capacity to build an alternative and sustainable production model. however, for the commerce commissioner, there is no harm in good that does not come. you are taking advantage of the situation to renegotiate with the united states government neoliberal policies, a new zombie ttip. and without any transparency. and without any negotiating mandate from the council. because all they want to defend are the interests of the german car industry and the multinationals.
mr president, this report is very important because we must know where fish comes from. in my country, galicia, canned fish is very important in the representation of the volume of production. as far as labelling is concerned, it is very important that the species, the zone, the method of production and also the fishing technique are shown. unfair competition cannot be allowed to continue, but i also call parliament's attention to working conditions. the report says that the european union clearly has little credibility in terms of labour standards for fishermen in other countries, as it does not take on its international responsibilities within its own borders. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on this report, which is also very important for my country.
mr. president, residency-for-investment schemes are a real scandal, because we have no control over where the money comes from. basically, it is a policy that what it does is that people who want to come to the european union to earn their honest bread we do not let them in, and people who bring money that we do not know where from we give them residence permits. in addition, i have to say that in spain, where since 2013 we have given up to thirty thousand visas, we are leading this issue with two identified very serious problems. the first is the impact on the housing market. money has been allowed to enter the housing market, favoring developers, but with a very, very negative impact on housing prices for the majority of the citizens. and then, on the issue of the origin of money, in the spanish case, the first country of origin of money is china. and in china, it's illegal to take more than $50,000 out of the country. how is it possible that chinese investors come to spain later to invest, in exchange for residence, five hundred thousand, one million euros? it is a real scandal and that is why we are asking the commission to please act and to draw up a european legal framework to tackle this issue.
mr president, as is well known, there are states which offer 'golden visas' in exchange for an economic investment of between 250 000 and 10 million euros. third-country nationals thus obtain a residence permit which, depending on the member state granting it, grants freedom of movement, tax advantages, access to the single market or citizenship. but they've been investigated by the oecd. they have been for possible abuse for the purpose of tax evasion. these investigations have detailed how 'golden visas' are used to weaken the fight against corruption in the european union and its neighbouring countries. the phenomenon has increased in the last six years, driven mainly by millionaires from china, russia, libya, iran or venezuela eager to find a safe place for their money and a passport that saves them the paperwork in case they have to leave their home countries in a hurry. 'golden visas' issued in exchange for a particular investment have been linked in many cases to money laundering, corruption and organised crime. and therefore to the financing of all kinds of illegal activities, such as drug trafficking and terrorism. i am therefore, along with other members, saying: 'european citizenship, european legislation'. i am the rapporteur for council regulation (ec) no 539/2001 on the issue of visas. in this connection, commissioner, i propose that you launch a legislative initiative amending that regulation in due course and making it compulsory for all member states to comply with it.
mr president, golden visas, residence and citizenship look like issues which belong to the national legislation of the member states. but they are not – and they never have been since the lisbon treaty entered into force – because they fall under a common european visa policy and european legislation. golden visas have a negative impact on the status of eu residence and citizenship. they have a negative impact on the common fight against corruption, money laundering and fiscal unfairness. european residence or citizenship should not be bought in a black market or sold out by member states’ governments. finally, they have a negative impact on equal rights, equality before the law, because they benefit the rich, and they are an offence against most fundamental eu values. my conclusion is clear, crystal clear. a new european visa code and a common european strategy are needed in order to fight against not only corruption but also tax evasion, fraud, fiscal fairness and fairness for all.
in writing. with the crisis some eu member states saw the possibility of improving their income by granting citizenship and residency to applicants who bring money into the country by buying real estate or investing in a company. this has repercussions on the rest of the union, especially in the case of citizenship, as holders of the citizenship of a member state automatically acquire citizenship of the union and several of its rights and privileges, and can therefore become a form of parasitism on the common assets of the union. at least half of the member states allow the granting of 'golden visas'. the ep has expressed concern that beneficiaries of these programmes do not have to meet the same conditions as other applicants. their grant may prove unfair because they offer opportunities to the rich that are denied to people without money. they provide opportunities for corruption and crime, as second passports are useful to criminals, tax evaders and money launderers, who may need new identities and places to escape to.
in writing. with the crisis some eu member states saw the possibility of improving their income by granting citizenship and residency to applicants who bring money into the country by buying real estate or investing in a company. this has repercussions on the rest of the union, especially in the case of citizenship, as holders of the citizenship of a member state automatically acquire citizenship of the union and several of its rights and privileges, and can therefore become a form of parasitism on the common assets of the union. at least half of the member states allow the granting of 'golden visas'. the ep has expressed concern that beneficiaries of these programmes do not have to meet the same conditions as other applicants. their grant may prove unfair because they offer opportunities to the rich that are denied to people without money. they provide opportunities for corruption and crime, as second passports are useful to criminals, tax evaders and money launderers, who may need new identities and places to escape to.
in writing. with the crisis some eu member states saw the possibility of improving their income by granting citizenship and residency to applicants who bring money into the country by buying real estate or investing in a company. this has repercussions on the rest of the union, especially in the case of citizenship, as holders of the citizenship of a member state automatically acquire citizenship of the union and several of its rights and privileges, and can therefore become a form of parasitism on the common assets of the union. at least half of the member states allow the granting of 'golden visas'. the ep has expressed concern that beneficiaries of these programmes do not have to meet the same conditions as other applicants. their grant may prove unfair because they offer opportunities to the rich that are denied to people without money. they provide opportunities for corruption and crime, as second passports are useful to criminals, tax evaders and money launderers, who may need new identities and places to escape to.
in writing. with the crisis some eu member states saw the possibility of improving their income by granting citizenship and residency to applicants who bring money into the country by buying real estate or investing in a company. this has repercussions on the rest of the union, especially in the case of citizenship, as holders of the citizenship of a member state automatically acquire citizenship of the union and several of its rights and privileges, and can therefore become a form of parasitism on the common assets of the union. at least half of the member states allow the granting of 'golden visas'. the ep has expressed concern that beneficiaries of these programmes do not have to meet the same conditions as other applicants. their grant may prove unfair because they offer opportunities to the rich that are denied to people without money. they provide opportunities for corruption and crime, as second passports are useful to criminals, tax evaders and money launderers, who may need new identities and places to escape to.
in writing. with the crisis some eu member states saw the possibility of improving their income by granting citizenship and residency to applicants who bring money into the country by buying real estate or investing in a company. this has repercussions on the rest of the union, especially in the case of citizenship, as holders of the citizenship of a member state automatically acquire citizenship of the union and several of its rights and privileges, and can therefore become a form of parasitism on the common assets of the union. at least half of the member states allow the granting of 'golden visas'. the ep has expressed concern that beneficiaries of these programmes do not have to meet the same conditions as other applicants. their grant may prove unfair because they offer opportunities to the rich that are denied to people without money. they provide opportunities for corruption and crime, as second passports are useful to criminals, tax evaders and money launderers, who may need new identities and places to escape to.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, first of all, i would like to say that this is a very important report, because in recent years the european union has had to face several catastrophes in the form of fires, floods, storms, earthquakes or migration crises. these emergencies have shown that the resources available in the european union are not sufficient when a disaster reaches very large dimensions or affects several states, and the example we have is the forest fires in the warm dry seasons. the european union needs cooperation mechanisms adapted to this reality and to the new circumstances that conflict or climate change may bring. we therefore support the creation of a european reserve in addition to the resources of the member states, but without replacing them and provided that it is coordinated by the european union. it should also be borne in mind that some member states affected by the crisis may not be in a position to contribute the funds previously committed to the european union mechanism. prevention by the member states and monitoring by the commission should also be strengthened. the existence of this mechanism should not allow member states to relax their guard, either in the means or in prevention. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs gardini, on the very effective and balanced work she has done on this report which we are going to vote on tomorrow. and finally, i would like to applaud the budget increase proposed by the commission, which is consistent with an increase in the capacity of the civil protection mechanism.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, it is high time we talked about fire prevention. it took half the iberian peninsula to burn to make it happen, but here we are. that's what this is about. that we should talk about preventing disasters, about anticipating them rather than patching up their consequences. because, ladies and gentlemen, terrorist attacks are a threat, but we are not sure when, how or where they will occur. however, we do have some certainty about the effects of climate change. it turns out that the united nations estimates that 60 percent of migration is due to hurricanes, droughts and floods. they also estimate that by 2050, about 250 million people will be considered climate refugees, words you refused to use. we insist on the need to establish a european climate change observatory which also serves to recognise the protection status of those who are displaced from their territories as a result of the decisions we take here in a totally irresponsible way. the commission welcomes the achievements in the field of humanitarian aid. in the meantime, however, the difficult conditions of the refugees in the camps continue, and we should never forget the women who are the main victims. because their bodies are the main battlefields, because they suffer trafficking and sexual violence both in refugee camps and throughout their journey across europe. will we continue to look the other way on this most painful issue or will we be able to face the problem with courage, with honesty and with a high view for once?
mr president, i congratulate the commission and also the rapporteur, mrs gardini, and the alternate rapporteurs on this work. a job that helps to create the european union, to make more europe. responding and protecting citizens from solidarity and coordination in the face of disasters is one of the great initiatives we are discussing here today. climate change is one of the biggest challenges we face in the immediate future and we could say we are already fighting it, but we need to know in advance and be able to prevent the consequences. every year we have examples of disasters; last year, doñana, portugal - with even human lives lost. so we have to work from this unity and coordination to prevent it. these disasters have also highlighted the need to work from a higher efficiency and effectiveness. the member states alone are not able or incapable of combating them in the necessary way. i therefore welcome this initiative and would like to stress two points in particular. i am aware that the climate change observatory has not been launched and i think that would be an important initiative, but other initiatives are being put forward that can help us move forward and which i hope will have the necessary support tomorrow. we need a risk map that allows us to differentiate which areas face specific risks and thus be able to prevent them better, whether they are seismic risks or lack of water resources, etc. in short, we can anticipate the circumstances of each of the regions, and also adapt and coordinate this with other mechanisms such as the solidarity fund. we must make this fund more responsive to needs and more equitable, better adapted to the per capita wealth of the area, but most importantly also including the value of the environment. the environment when it suffers also has to be repaired and therefore this fund has to incorporate the economic value that the environment also has.
mr president, there is undeniable evidence that in recent decades natural disasters have increased in frequency and intensity, taking many lives and destroying many infrastructures and ways of life. but we're also seeing the recurrence of these natural disasters, and that means we have the capacity to learn and to prevent and to try to respond in advance to what's predictably going to happen to us. this has been the fundamental lesson of the sendai framework and the cancun global platform, which we have to apply within the european union. i think it is a good proposal to increase the capacity and resources of the european union for action, because while maintaining subsidiarity we must increase solidarity. we must have a european response to disasters affecting european citizens.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the european parliament for raising the issue of registered partnerships in connection with the commission’s proposal for a recast brussels iia regulation. this proposal facilitates the resolution of cross-border legal issues in family matters and provides protection to children. our proposal focuses on the shortcomings regarding parental responsibility matters. parliament has also flagged these up in the past. they now require our urgent action. as parliament has noted, we did not propose changes to the provision on matrimonial matters by addressing, for example, the possibility for couples to choose a court for divorce, or extending the regulation’s scope to same-sex couples or registered partnerships. the results of the public consultation undertaken by the commission did not provide sufficient evidence to justify making urgent changes in the area of matrimonial matters. our assessment was that it is not the right time to change these rules. the key objective of the brussels iia revision is to propose significant improvements for children facing difficult situations. these need to be addressed urgently. i am happy that parliament and the commission have a common goal. in cross-border cases we want to prevent children from ending up as hostages of long legal disputes. we also want to facilitate cross-border legal proceedings for families by various means, including by reducing the length and cost of procedures. very importantly, both parliament and the commission want to provide the same level of protection to all children. i would like to stress that, in our proposal, we have ensured that the improved protection of children applies to all children, irrespective of the civil status of their parents: that is, regardless of whether or not they are married or in a registered partnership. a prompt agreement on this proposal, requiring unanimity in the council, is within reach. the commission is committed to engaging closely in the negotiations with a view to finding a good outcome for the benefit of children.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the main objective of the european union is to maintain an area of freedom, security and justice, and it is essential for this to be able to have judicial cooperation, especially in family matters, in the european union. that is why the reform which we presented in january with the rapporteur, our colleague mr tadeusz zwiefka, as a summary, a reform of all this cooperation in the field of family law, was a step forward towards greater legal certainty, a step towards avoiding many gaps and unnecessary delays and confusion, and above all it became the cornerstone of this judicial cooperation. uniform procedures were established for separation, divorce, marriage annulments and also for parental responsibility in crossborder situations - which, as you know, are on the increase. the free movement of decisions, judgments and documents was thus ensured, and there were no delays which were always to the detriment of the child, who is the main object of the regulation. it is true - the commission has said this - that there are 19 member states which have regulated de facto couples, but in europe there are nine states which do not. and it is true that it is a growing reality: more and more children are born to couples who are not married and more and more couples are living together. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the child is protected, and i would like to ask the commissioner whether he thinks that the regulation of this reality would jeopardise the agreement which is necessary to enable us to have this cooperation, provided that the aim is to protect the child.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, thank you very much, mr commissioner, but we in the alde group would like to recover some fundamental ideas and not go on with a more or less demagogic rant. let us see, if there is a displacement of companies within europe, if we are europeans, if we believe in the single market, it is as if there is one within a member state. in my case it's as if one from asturias goes to malaga, and in the case of italy, as if one from turin, where my grandmother was born, goes to sicily. let's get serious about this. either we believe in the single market or we don't. that said, the mobility of enterprises and workers is an inalienable right and an absolute instrument for prosperity and cohesion. if we try to stop this, if we try to put up internal barriers, gentlemen, europe is finished. let it be known. that said, the characteristic of european society, of european democracies, is that in this absolutely free dynamic there are obviously gaps for workers, for companies and so on. unlike other societies, we believe in cohesion and solidarity and therefore we do everything possible to protect these workers, to help them through these bad times and get back on their feet. that is the european model, not putting up internal barriers. for the record. one last thing i would like to say: we must respect the allocation of resources. otherwise europe will not work and will never be competitive. finally, there is talk of embraco. but the fact is that embraco is a model of the benefits of european mobility. we have created quality jobs in a less favoured area, which was slovakia, without, for the protection of workers, harming those in a more favoured area, which was turin. mobility works in europe. with solidarity. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. mr calvet, i do not know where you come from or where you have worked before, but if you were a worker in the car industry in vigo or in the textile industry in ordes who had lost his job because of the relocation of companies and had to move or go to another member state with his whole family, perhaps the comment would be different. in other words, the effects of economic neoliberalism cannot be covered up, which also means the displacement of workers. mobility is very good, but not to destroy jobs, and that is why i also wanted to clarify this consideration from the point of view of an area which is very much affected by economic globalisation and by the relocation of companies in services, in the automotive sector, in textiles.
the answer is 'blue card'. i have worked in the mining sector, but also in the shipping sector, and i have spent a lot of time in vigo because of the problems in the shipping sector. let us see: of course, it is not easy to move, although it is the history of mankind, and we must help, or recycle, as we did with the ship, by resorting to other subsidiary companies. what we cannot do is build europe by saying: 'i want my company, my university, my hospital on my doorstep'. and so what we have to do is help people when they have no choice but to use mobility, and i've used it many times in my life.
madam president, the main victims of relocations are the workers and the regions which are depopulated because of the lack of a future. you say you cannot interfere in companies, and yet you constantly interfere in the working conditions of workers by making recommendations on labour reforms, wages, pensions, and so on. if they really want to do something for industry and regional development, they must adopt fiscal measures to prevent unfair competition between states, harmonize working conditions to prevent and curb the excessive greed of companies for profits, where labour has become exclusively another product. but above all, they must be committed to productive models, to innovation, to the fact that the states have budgets specifically for this, that they consolidate industry in our regions and, of course, that they eliminate the industrial imbalances that exist in europe and that are what are unfortunately leading us to this failure in the european union.
madam president, mr arias cañete, i would like to take this opportunity to say that we galicians know a great deal about the relocation of workers. the commission is hiding behind these words about the global market the social dumping, the unfair competition in the labour market, but also in taxation, of many multinationals who have no mercy in going wherever it suits them best. this shift towards social deprivation is the norm for many companies in the automotive industry (in the case of vigo), in the telephone, water, electricity and gas supply industries, and in the textile sector, also in the galician case. and i say this knowingly, because you have no choice. this relocation is the visible face of the economic neoliberalism which the commission is so fond of. the problem is not only relocation in actual terms, but also the constant threat of many multinationals relocating, often to collect financial aid from the european commission. because it is very surprising that certain charities, such as the european globalisation adjustment fund, are given. how curious! first you let them relocate, then you pay for it, right? it is therefore very important that the commission should legislate on the economic, social, territorial and human impact of this relocation.
madam president, i would like to say to the commissioner that we need to put democratic conditionality in all the agreements with turkey. the abuse of power in turkey is really a scandal. journalists, teachers, human rights defenders and politicians like the hdp leader, mr demirtas, are in jail, as are mps. i am a member of the parliamentary delegation to turkey in the european parliament and we are very worried. the bad use of european money to suppress human rights is a scandal. trapping millions of refugees to stop them from entering the european union is terrible. we cannot have this complicity in the possible violation of the international rights of refugees. we cannot pay to kill.
member of the commission. the commission is not prepared to accept this. i am grateful for the many comments which also give me the opportunity to clarify certain points. i don't know if i'm gonna be successful. first of all, this ipa. it is a miscalculation or a lack of knowledge to think that this means that a certain amount is being transferred to turkey, and that is what it is. no, pre-entry grants are based on programs, on specific projects that are agreed with us, that are funded and that are paid only when billed. just so we're clear on that. the european court of auditors and other audit bodies have repeatedly confirmed that things are going well here. just as a basic understanding once. secondly, i think i have heard now from some 30 or so speakers who have expressed themselves, for the most part, in a critical or negative way about pre-accession aid to turkey, and have said that this pre-accession aid should be stopped. i 'll tell you what . there are currently 26 member states out of 28 which support maintaining the status quo suspending or not continuing negotiations and adjusting pre-accession assistance accordingly. of the speakers who spoke today, only one was from austria, one of the countries - austria and denmark are the two - which are in favour of ending the accession procedure. all the other 26 are for the status quo i just described. and as long as that status quo exists, there's also pre-entry assistance. what i have done is to submit a proposal to adapt these pre-accession aid measures to the circumstances, as requested by the european council. and i can tell you that in this proposal i have gone much further than the budget that this house has agreed with the european council for 2018 for turkey. this house has agreed with the council on a much smaller cut than i proposed. and i hope that my proposal for the 2018-2020 cuts will have your support. if i may follow your words, i can assume that. we have also often discussed in this house that there is a significant part of society in turkey - and if we take the result of the referendum on constitutional amendments into account, it is about half of society - that holds a different view from erdoğan and his party. the house has repeatedly expressed the view that this part of society should be supported, not least by appropriate measures of the european union, for example in the context of pre-accession aid. in this sense, we are also trying - and have already done so - to redirect the funds, massively towards contributing to the promotion of civil society, and here also in the way that we go from indirect to direct management, that the funds are directly managed by our delegation, that we work directly with civil society to ensure that the funds are used properly. now perhaps to the real cause of this debate: i said in my opening statement: it has also been said time and again - here in the house too - that turkey should be supported in protecting the external borders, in order to stop illegal immigration or simply to control the borders. to this end, financial support has been provided for the purchase of armoured but unarmoured vehicles. in english, it sounds similar, and perhaps that's what caused this confusion. we've been investigating these allegations, and i can tell you today, we have no evidence that any of the devices we funded were used to shoot at refugees. if you can provide me with evidence of this, i would be very grateful. our research, our checks, they've come up empty. of course, i can't rule out that one of these vehicles was fired from. it can also be fired from an unarmoured vehicle. but what i would like to stress is this: we have not financed tanks with eu funds, but armored vehicles which also provide protection for civilian border guards, just as it was used by our own personnel. i ask you to take note of that. and i would like to invite you to come back to this: if you have concrete evidence, i would be more than grateful, because i have as much interest as you in clarifying things and making sure that things are used correctly once and for all. at this point, with today's knowledge, i can say that there has been no abuse in this regard. as i said, we have this status now as far as pre-entry assistance is concerned. i have proposed to reduce them by about 40% in total for the remaining period 2018-2020. much of this is being spent on civil society projects and the completion of certain infrastructure projects, such as a rail link to bulgaria. that is what i was going to say, and i thank you again for the debate.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me first thank, on behalf of my colleague neven mimica, the rapporteurs ms linda mcavan and ms dubravka šuica, for their joint work and welcome parliament’s report on the first year of implementation of the second eu gender action plan in external relations 2016-2020. our evaluation of the first gender action plan had been a useful guidance in the preparation of the second plan. based on lessons learned, we wanted to address all the identified weaknesses, such as limited capacities to tackle gender equality and women’s empowerment issues in external actions, limited high level political support and coordination among the services and on the ground. this learning process will also continue in the implementation of our second gender action plan. the annual reporting requirement by all external relations services is an important tool in this regard and an opportunity to do things better together and more efficiently. let me stress here that our second gender action plan, covering not only development but also all external actions more widely, is mandatory for all commission services working with partner countries, the european external action service, as well as eu member states. the management’s commitment and ownership of the second gender action plan is therefore crucial. this would be facilitated by the requirement that each report has to be endorsed by either the head of delegation or the relevant director and headquarters. we also need a strong political buy-in from the highest level, including parliament. this is about understanding that gender is fundamental and a key driver in all sectors when it comes to sustainable development. all our staff must also be more sensitive to this across the board. we also need adequate funding. the recent midterm review of the external financing instruments has been, as you suggest, a great opportunity to measure the scope of gender-sensitive initiatives in our development cooperation. following this analysis, eur 50 million has been reallocated to provide additional funding to this key priority in the period 2018-2020. our overall financial support to gender equality is increasing. from the data already available for the 2017 report, around 65% of eu official development assistance (oda) has been committed in gender-sensitive ways. this covers all sectors, from education and health, to agriculture, transport, justice and employment. this is a visible increase from 2016 when the percentage was 58% of eu oda. with regard to data collection and targets, it is now mandatory to measure the impact on gender equality of all eu-funded actions. a big effort has also been made to align the monitoring framework with the 2030 agenda. the 2016 gender action plan report provided us with a solid basis for measuring quantitative progress made. the ensuing 2017 report will allow us to go even deeper in the analyses, also from a qualitative perspective. overall, gender analyses are increasingly informing our new initiatives. awareness raising and training of commission staff have also been promoted. finally, let me recall that last september, together with the united nations, we launched an unprecedented spotlight initiative to eliminate violence against women and girls. the initiative focuses on particular forms of violence against women and girls that are prevalent in specific world regions: femicide in latin america, trafficking and economic exploitation in asia, sexual and gender-based violence, including harmful practices, in sub-saharan africa, domestic violence in the pacific and the caribbean. despite the large amount the eu has dedicated to this initiative – eur 500 million – it will not be sufficient to tackle all forms of violence. so we have invited other donors to join forces with us. with regards to the women, peace and security field, let me just underline that it is highly important when working in conflict prevention and peace building processes to integrate effectively a gender perspective in all operations and missions from the inception phase. this year we have been making an effort to harmonise reporting requirements and leverage as much as possible the coordinating mechanism at the country level. i hope you will agree that we still have a lot of work ahead of us to deliver and i sincerely hope that together, by using all our voices, policy tools and financing instruments, we can indeed make a lasting difference.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, commissioner, nadia murad received in 2016, together with her compatriot lamiya aji bashar, the sakharov prize for freedom of conscience awarded by this chamber. isis terrorists devastated the region where they lived, sinyar, and carried out a genocide against the yazidi community. nadia was taken as a sex slave. kidnapped, tortured and so on. but he managed to escape and has been fighting for justice for his people ever since. i am speaking of nadia because her example illustrates what europe must do in the field that concerns us, at this crossroads between development, human rights and gender equality. the union cannot deal with its own problems alone. we have an obligation to use our influence to defend what makes us different: our values. if we awarded the sakharov prize to nadia it was because we made her cause our cause too. but it's not enough to do justice. our first duty is to prevent the injustices suffered by women all over the world. and that is what this report is about, mrs šuica, not ideology. we must of course set an example, and to do this it is essential that all the member states ratify the istanbul convention and incorporate its provisions into legislation. but getting involved also means providing funding, because without money, all we say will be empty words. an example of what we need to do is the spotlight initiative, whereby the union, together with the united nations, allocates a specific budget to combat gender-based violence. and i would add something else. we need a strong common foreign and defence policy, which will enable us to ensure stability in those regions where women are most vulnerable. the values on which europe is founded are universal, and our role here is to export them to the whole world to prevent, to prevent what nadia murad has suffered from happening again.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, promoting equality through the cooperation and diplomatic activities of the european external action service is an obligation and the best contribution we can make to the establishment and success of many of the activities we promote to promote other development paradigms abroad. i am also pleased that concrete measures are being identified to promote a cultural change in european programme managers. but above all, i welcome the fact that this report is a profound, horizontal and comprehensive commitment to women's management. it is proven that empowered women with equal access to finance and entrepreneurship are able to promote stable, open and fair development that is much more difficult to achieve in situations of inequality. i therefore stress my agreement with this report and agree that ensuring the physical integrity of girls and women, promoting their rights and empowering them as civic, economic, social and political actors are key to transforming the lives of women and girls in the world through the union's external action. that's a huge contribution to making the world a much fairer place, less unequal and ultimately more human. because there is nothing more inhumane than to despise or, worse, to keep subjugated the 50% of the people.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, the gender action plan is a key tool to ensure the union's contribution to strengthening women's rights worldwide. as recognised in the commission's working document on gender equality, the commission and the european external action service can and should do more to put the rights of girls and women at the heart of the union's external actions and thereby improve their lives. in the preliminary report for the document under discussion, we identified several points for improvement, such as the lack of understanding of the concept of gender mainstreaming and the need for specific training on this perspective; the fact that priorities related to sexual and reproductive health and rights are systematically relegated in terms of funding and programmes; the situation of women in conflict zones; the lack of qualitative reporting or lack of funding. we are pleased to have incorporated these improvements into the final text and i thank the other rapporteurs for making this possible. but i do regret that despite a broad consensus in the femm committee, and despite long negotiations on this report, the european people's party does not support the resolution - which it should in fact be a co-author of - because, in its view, it contains problematic language on sexual and reproductive rights. i regret to see, once again, that the bodies of women and girls continue to be an ideological battleground.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, let me give you some facts that will help us to know what we are talking about and how much is at stake. at least one in three women have suffered or will suffer physical and sexual violence. fourteen million women are forced into marriage every year. many are minors. and there are at least 200 million women and girls worldwide who have had their genitals mutilated. we are half of humanity, and the gender perspective must be integrated and promoted in all, absolutely all, of the union's political activities. otherwise, you're turning your back on half the world. we therefore welcome the fact that the gender action plan ii covers aspects which have been a priority for us for many years. for example, promoting sexual and reproductive health and rights is a necessary prerequisite for gender equality. and that means providing all the medical help that's necessary. and let me be clear: this includes access to safe abortion, as provided for by international humanitarian law. gender equality is not an ideology. it's justice. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is 'blue card'. yeah, sure, that prevention should be dedicated to men who rape and maybe have controlled ejaculations, right? so if a man can't control himself and keeps raping women, we'll have to act on that, won't we?
madam president, i congratulate the rapporteurs on this important report which is empowering or will seek to empower women in the european union's external relations. how can we be indifferent to femicide, to women who are raped, to human rights defenders in conflict zones who are killed and displaced, to women forced into marriage, to women without economic resources or to girls who cannot go to school!? there is no ideology when it comes to human life and when it comes to women's lives. i'm telling you about a recent case in colombia. on the occasion of a visit by a delegation from this parliament to the elections in colombia, we had the opportunity to visit a project financed by the european parliament, a pilot project in the popayán area in the cauca. women coffee growers who would not have, at any time, access to create projects and who were financed with these supports. but, above all, they gave them the possibility to empower themselves, as they said. that follow-up that we did, that group of mps, gave us the reason that investing in gender is a value and is also an investment for human rights.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, young people represent about 17% of the union's population. one in three is at risk of falling into poverty or social exclusion. more than 11% of those aged 15 to 24 are not in education, employment or training. the unemployment rate is still above 15% on average and in some countries, such as ours, it is above 30%. and for the first time since world war ii, there is a real risk that today's young people will live worse than their parents. and i refuse to accept that this has to be the way it is. last week the oecd published a report warning of the growing frustration of young europeans and that this was translating into a rejection of the institutions, which we are already seeing in several countries. too many university graduates are unable to find employment or are stuck in one precarious job after another with no clear future. the austerity measures adopted in the context of the crisis have had a negative impact on citizens in general, but especially on the youngest, who have been the most affected by the cuts in education, culture and social services. europe cannot afford to have its young people disconnected and socially excluded. nor, of course, waste his talent. we cannot ignore the potential and creativity of 90 million young europeans. we cannot afford to have a generation so prepared not to take an active part in social and political life. it is essential that young people feel heard and are engaged in strengthening the european project. it is essential that they have spaces for participation. this is one of the main demands of the european youth and therefore also in my report. in it i wanted to highlight the european cooperation in the field of youth, the implementation of structured dialogue to ensure the participation of young people, the open method of coordination and, of course, some of the policy proposals and initiatives such as the 'investing in european youth' initiative, the new european solidarity corps and the youth employment initiative. however, much remains to be done. and, for example, we need clearer links between the implementation of youth policy and all european programmes; an improved framework for transparency and monitoring of youth policies; central coordination involving all relevant actors in the different sectors; a strategy with better communication and participation tools and, of course, greater financial support from all programmes. and to achieve this, we have set out four key recommendations in this report. the first is to give young people a voice, to facilitate their participation in decision-making and policy development, so that their needs and ambitions are reflected and we also take into account the diversity of european youth; we must explore alternative forms of participation both individually and collectively. the second recommendation is to reduce inequalities, ensure sustainable inclusion in the labour market and ensure a dignified and independent life for young people; further work must be done to ensure that job opportunities are of quality and commensurate with their training. the third recommendation is that we need to pay attention to all the key areas to ensure a sustainable future, from modernizing education to paying special attention to the mental health of young people. and finally, of course, a financial commitment; we cannot increase participation in programmes such as erasmus or strengthen the european youth guarantee if we do not provide the necessary funds; we cannot finance some programmes if we have to cut others; and of course we cannot accept a cut in the european social fund, which is key to the acquisition of new skills for the unemployed and, above all, in the fight against social exclusion. commissioner, this bleak future i spoke of at the beginning is not inevitable. we all have a responsibility here to make a difference. i hope that the new european youth strategy will help to build a better future for them. if we accept that our youth must be one of our priorities, let us put all the means at our disposal so that this generation does not live worse than the previous ones. it's just a matter of will.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this constructive debate. the european union youth strategy has played a crucial role in coordinating youth-related policies at union level. but i agree that there is room for improvement. today’s debate showed that we often share the same vision regarding what needs to be done next. this is very good news, as an important element of the strategy’s success is to ensure everybody is on board. that is why we propose enhancing coordination at all levels, through the establishment of a european union youth coordinator and the design of national action plans. but most importantly, we need to promote, facilitate and cherish the active involvement and participation of young people themselves through a more open, inclusive and constructive dialogue. we have to do policy with them, not about them. commissioner navracsics, and all of us, are happy to count on your support in taking the next steps.
the commission's strategy for the future is to ensure that the european union is able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the single market. but i think it is very much in line with what we have discussed today in this house - and what i hope we will adopt in the report tomorrow - because, in the end, it is in line with the demands of young people in particular, with whom you have been working, although we must always improve that work and, above all, the participation of young people in decision-making. i would like to highlight an idea which i find very interesting, namely the idea of a thorough monitoring of expenditure in all the union's programmes, because this way we will be able to know exactly how much money the european union is investing in youth policies. and as regards the issue of the youth coordinator within the commission, i think it is a proposal we have to explore in the future, but the important thing is that every policy and every decision that is taken should always have that youth perspective. the youth policy must be a transversal policy and cannot be based on a coordinator who is only concerned that policies take this perspective, but it must be something much more transversal. but i am glad that the commission is prepared to continue its work. madam president, in conclusion, i would just like to thank all the rapporteurs from the other groups for their work, because the truth is that it has been easy to work. all the contributions and all the amendments have gone to build the report and to add new ideas to this report. so i think we have a great result and i hope that tomorrow's vote will be broadly in favour of this report.
in writing. the european youth strategy aims to give voice to the ideas and demands of young europeans by seeking to facilitate better access to the labour market and by encouraging student mobility through training and volunteering programmes. paragraph 13 of this report, which states that the union recognises the importance of youth associations as a space for personal growth and the development of a sense of active citizenship, makes me reflect on the situation of young people in catalonia, such as the fact that student associations that do not support independence are the victims of attacks and defamatory campaigns. the autonomous university of barcelona even intends to remove the youth collective of the societat civil catalana association from the directory of associations, thus preventing them from carrying out their activities at the university. it is essentially a political persecution against young people, because of their 'public position on certain topical political issues', as the catalan prosecutor's office itself has acknowledged. if we want young europeans to feel truly represented by the union, we must listen to them, but also protect their freedom of association and expression, especially in educational and cultural institutions.
member of the commission. – madam president, for more than 10 years now, the union’s ecodesign policy has proven to be an effective instrument for improving the environmental performance of energy-related products. one of the success factors of this policy framework is the way we go about establishing the requirements; through a robust and transparent process, with the close involvement of all stakeholders along the way. this has resulted in broad support for ecodesign and energy labelling from member states, businesses, consumer organisations and environmental ngos. the commission is very pleased to see that also in this house there is strong support for a continued, and strengthened, implementation of this policy. let me outline briefly what the commission is already doing to improve its implementation. firstly, as regards the decision-making process we are aware that the development of measures takes time. this time is needed to ensure a robust technical analysis and have a transparent process where stakeholders have many opportunities to comment on our work. moreover, given the sensitivity of this policy in some quarters, the college has decided to strengthen political oversight. this includes, amongst others, political level scrutiny at different stages of the process and the adoption of measures in packages to underline the added value of this policy in terms of monetary and energy savings. as regards market surveillance, member states clearly need to do more to ensure compliance of products with ecodesign and energy labelling requirements. the commission is assisting national authorities with this task, in particular by funding joint surveillance projects and facilitating exchange of information. the product registration database that we are establishing for energy labelling will also help in this respect. another important way to strengthen ecodesign implementation is in its contribution to the objectives of the circular economy. in fact, our current ecodesign regulations already tackle reparability, durability and end-of-life aspects of certain products in support of circular economy objectives. but more can be done and your own-initiative report indicates many areas where improvements could be made. the commission is keen to explore various possibilities, and in fact the current ecodesign working plan 2016-2019 makes a strong commitment to contribute to the objectives of the circular economy. issues such as durability, reparability and recyclability will be examined in a more systematic way when proposing new regulations and when reviewing the existing ones. for example, we are investigating whether a reparability score for domestic appliances could be included in energy labels in the future. the core idea is to provide incentives to make products last longer and be easier to upgrade, repair and recycle. this is not an easy discussion: for example, while a more energy efficient product directly leads to money saved for consumers, a product that is easier to disassemble does not necessarily have such direct benefits. also, if there are circular economy requirements, it needs to be possible to check them. it is one thing to check how a product performs. it is quite another thing to check how it was produced, for example using recycled materials. the commission is however convinced that these challenges can be overcome and that, together, we can enhance our existing policy framework to drive our markets towards more sustainable products and a truly low-emission, energy efficient and circular economy.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, ecodesign is a key step in continuing to move towards the new european model of a circular and low-emission economy. better regulation of the design and manufacturing phase of products is essential. this will make it easier to reuse products, to disassemble them, to repair them and to combat planned obsolescence. in this way we will avoid damage to the environment and reduce manufacturing costs. the importance of ecodesign has led the vast majority of parliament's groups to agree on the measures to be taken. we have been aware that, in order to move towards a new way of producing and consuming, it is essential to regulate all stages of the life cycle of a product. this report deals with the directive adopted under this title in 2009. however, almost ten years after its approval, we cannot be completely satisfied with its implementation. we must learn from our mistakes and come up with more firm and concrete solutions, which in turn will be a powerful tool against climate change. we are therefore convinced that the report presented today represents a step forward and progress towards the circular economy model, the model which will allow us to pollute less and create more and better jobs in europe. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her work and for the willingness of the other rapporteurs to work together.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament mr president, we in our committee on petitions are very concerned about the precariousness of work, as the chairman has just said. this question is the answer to many petitions on precariousness and abuse in employment contracts. the profile of the worker has changed in europe. there's a new class of workers. having a job is not having a life. having a job now often means being poor. you have a job, you're poor. this is our reality. the greatest precariousness in employment in europe is in spain, the country where the most people work on precarious contracts, not because they want to, because it is no longer possible to have an indefinite contract. 91.4% of jobs in spain are precarious. the origin is in the structure of the labour market. the eventuality implies that to have a job is to be in a situation of poverty. in my own country, galicia, one in four employees has a fixed-term, precarious and temporary contract, one of the highest rates in the european union, at 26.8%. as regards young people, 3 out of 4 young people, or 73.3%, have a temporary contract, followed by slovenia, poland, portugal, italy and croatia. spain also leads in precariousness. this is a social risk for europe, a social risk, commissioner. that's why on the 19th, in galicia, we're going to strike. that is also why we must put forward a motion of censure on precariousness at work.
mr president, commissioner, i wish to speak here as the employment coordinator of alde and as rapporteur for the report on the directive on the forecasting and transparency of employment contracts. we are not talking here about the zero hour problem: that will have to be dealt with by the empl committee in due course. we are talking about responding to a number of citizens who have expressed concern about their working conditions and working conditions, which is absolutely normal in a time of crisis and i am indeed surprised that there are so few requests. there should be more, because we are all discontented in a crisis situation. what i mean is there are two kinds of questions. those who say that the law has not been developed in their country, etc.: let them go to the judges. and all the ones that ask us to do better. and i would certainly like to tell you that parliament is in this, and that the directive on the forecasting and transparency of employment contracts and working conditions, together with the work-life balance, together with the social security number, is a move, an offensive by parliament, together with the commission, to meet those demands and improve the labour markets for workers.
mr president, today we are, of course, debating and voting on this motion for a resolution by this parliament condemning precarious employment in a context where parttime and fixed-term contracts have multiplied throughout the union over the last 15 years. in the opinion of our group, we have entered a downward spiral in the working conditions of workers throughout europe and in my country, spain, of course, exponentially. the economic and financial crisis has been the perfect storm for investment markets, credit rating agencies, the european central bank and the neoliberal right in general to attack the living conditions of the working classes. we are at a critical juncture, mr commissioner, with a return to levels of precariousness in work that have not been seen in europe since the end of the second world war. the situation is terrible and the response must therefore be above all ideological. the directives governing recruitment, labour protection in state legislation and social dialogue as a framework for regulating working conditions must be strengthened. there can be no social justice if we move towards new forms of covert slavery.
mr president, mr commissioner, what we are really discussing here today are the consequences of the treatment of the crisis, a treatment which opted for austerity to improve competitiveness and which has brought us a decline in social rights, a decline in wages, a decline in labour standards - and ultimately in workers' wages - and job insecurity and precariousness, which particularly affect women and young people and which will weigh heavily on the future of the european union. that is what we are debating today, the outcome of this crisis management. but it is striking that there is a wide range of european legislation and it is striking that, while this is happening, the european union is looking the other way. and look the other way when petitioners complain even that their petitions are not answered in time or are not answered. and it is true. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so that is what i am asking the commission to do, to demand that monitoring, that compliance and to open the infringement files that have to be opened, and to close those that are open; but very especially that the policies of the european semester require compliance with labour standards. i also ask you, very specifically, to take steps to eliminate and put an end, once and for all, to the successive chain of temporary contracts which are really indefinite - this is happening throughout the european union and must be ended - and to regulate zero-hour contracts. the european commission therefore has a very important role to play in guaranteeing the rights of workers and in putting an end to this burden of job insecurity for european citizens.
mr president, council directive 1999/70/ec states that indefinite contracts must be the general form of employment relationship. however, we are living in a boom of atypical, temporary and unwanted parttime employment. there are states which systematically fail to comply with this legislation, but the commission continues to delay the processing of infringement procedures, just as it continues to fail to respond to the increase in new requests on this matter. there are many groups affected by the trap of precariousness: trainees, fake self-employed workers, amazon and deliveroo delivery workers, kellys - hotel floor waiters, professional carers - the vast majority of them immigrant women - or, for example, domestic workers, whose conditions in spain are not improving, but whose integration into the general social security system will be delayed by another five years by an amendment of the partido popular y ciudadanos, thus prolonging their precarious situation in an unsustainable way. the commission must take steps to eliminate abusive clauses and to promote legislation to guarantee them. we must also take a serious look at the reorganisation of working time to reflect on the relationship between work and life, with care and people at the centre.
mr president, commissioner stylianides, with enormous difficulties and forced by the dramatic position adopted in the changing of the guard in the white house by the united states, the european union has done the right thing by diplomatically supporting the nuclear agreement with iran, to which member states of the european union are party. but at the same time it has to redouble its diplomatic efforts to stand up for the european citizens with dual nationality - three britons, two swedes, one austrian - who are suffering this hell in iran: sentenced in secret trials without consular assistance, without medical assistance, without the assistance or presence of the ngos that might be providing aid, completely ignoring the binding of the vienna convention, international law regarding the situation of prisoners. the european union must diplomatically guarantee the release of european citizens with dual nationality. that must be the counterpart to the firm policy he is pursuing, including the visa denial and restrictions on iran adopted on 12 april.
mr president, in recent weeks the iranian people have bravely continued their protests and uprisings. we have seen unprecedented a workers’ protest on 1 may; a teachers’ protest on 10 may; the baluchis in zahedan on 20 may; massive protests in the city of kazerun, where four people were shot dead by security forces on 17 may; lorry drivers who had been on a nationwide strike in more than 200 cities all over iran for more than a week. people are demanding their rights in iran, but there is almost no mention of these uprisings and protests and human rights of the iranian people by our eu institutions or our eu officials. instead of focusing only on the nuclear deal, we need to listen to the people in iran who are fed up with the dictatorship. they want this regime to go, and they deserve our attention.
author. – mr president, yesterday we debated a resolution on gender equality and women’s empowerment through eu external relations and today we have another horrible case of clear violation of the rights of women and girls. the role of the european union in sudan raises serious concerns. it looks like the european union is only concerned with migration flows. however, the eu and individual member states that cooperate with sudan have the responsibility to urge the regime to respect human rights, particularly the rights of women and girls, and to call on the sudanese government to reform its legal system in accordance with international human rights standards. my group is committed to the promotion, protection and guarantee of human rights. we therefore tabled an amendment to highlight how the eu is abandoning its core values in its relations with sudan and i hope that all the groups will be willing to support this justified criticism.
author. mr. president, nura hussein was forced to marry at the age of sixteen. raped, abused and now sentenced to death for killing her husband while he was raping her. this is not an isolated case. in sudan, women can be forced into marriage at the age of ten. they suffer sexual and physical violence, such as lashes for not dressing appropriately, while the perpetrators enjoy total impunity. and this is happening with a european union that claims to be a guarantor of human rights and that funds projects worth 275 million euros in development aid, humanitarian assistance and border control operations in sudan. forced marriage is one of the most common causes of gender-based persecution that women like nura allege when they seek asylum in europe. and they're denied. women's rights cannot remain second-rate rights. while we deny safe passage to all those fleeing war, misery and patriarchal violence, we pay dictatorships like sudan to make us border police, perpetuating structural violence against women. we demand that the european union be consistent with its words and that it make its funds and trade relations conditional on respect for human rights. from here we demand pardon for nura and freedom for all nuras who in sudan are still oppressed and excluded.
madam president, this morning the european court of justice annulled the decision of the bureau of this parliament regarding the sanctions against mr korwin-mikke for insulting and attacking the dignity of european women. i mean that she may be given her money back, but she will not be given her decency and dignity back; and that respect for the dignity of women is one of the values of the european union and therefore, in the face of these positions and in the face of these interventions, this house will have to continue to be a firm defender of women's rights. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the green group, madam president, the commissioner has spoken forcefully about the important role of development aid and election observation missions, and the importance that the commission itself attaches to this kind of political approach and the need to have a voice in the world, in the poorest world, in the most violent world, in conflict zones. but it is clear that these news items which have been leaked to the press but which could somehow have been known already through comments by ngos or even by comments by certain affected persons, have been brought into focus and highlighted by the fact that they have been picked up by the new york times, and have given us great concern, to the extent that we have to address the european external action service with a subject which is, of course, shameful. and for that, too, we thank the commissioner for those words of zero tolerance. zero tolerance against possible abusive, reprehensible behaviour by election observers and by election workers; obviously. i think all the groups agree on this and it is very important that there should also be a signal from parliament to check such actions. because these behaviours, in short - also in this house, where we have so many macho characters, who are not here today, by the way - it is very good that they are said to be in line with a patriarchal model. sexual abuse, sexual harassment, drug use, excessive alcohol consumption, prostitution are symptoms of patriarchy, of the machismo that often exists in behaviour that moves outside europe to other places. that is why we must reinforce the ethical aspects with the code of conduct for observers and have zero tolerance for prohibited behaviour, totally prohibited. it is true that the just pay for the sinners and we must also honour and remember the enormous work of many ngos. but above all, madam president, i would like to conclude by saying that first, the commission must investigate, then sanction if there is any such reprehensible behaviour, but the most important thing is prevention: anticipating.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you so much for your remarks and for you suggestions. i completely agree with you about zero tolerance and, of course – above all – prevention. the recent cases of sexual misconduct reminded us firstly, that we need to continue to work towards a zero-tolerance culture against sexual exploitation and abuse. there is absolutely no room for relaxed efforts and lenient behaviour towards allegations of any kind of misconduct. secondly, we need to live up to our ethical and legal responsibilities as a leading donor of humanitarian and development assistance across the world. we need to support all our partners in their efforts to prevent, to identify at an early stage, and to respond to cases of sexual misconduct. we also need more transparency and more accountability across the board. we need to safeguard our work. our role is unique; saving lives and empowering people is a fair and upright duty. so our work is too important to be compromised. this is my very strict message to all our partners. i shall now answer some specific issues, and i would like to start with oxfam. we have collectively suspended the conclusion of any new contracts – these amount to a total of more than eur 90 million – until we are satisfied with the new mechanisms put in place to prevent, report and respond to sexual abuse. with regard to our support to antónio guterres’s efforts, as the european union we fully apply the un standards of behaviour in its common security and defence policy missions, and this year the council adopted revised standards of behaviour. of course, as antónio guterres has said many times, again, no zero tolerance for sexual abuse allegations. and as regards our monitoring of the use of our funding: first, we assess the financial, operational and administrative capacities of the ngos that apply to receive funding. secondly, we carry out regular on-site visits during the implementation of the project on the ground. third, audits of management and control systems are performed during the implementation of the action, and this includes visits to the project sites, implementing partners and beneficiaries. and fourth, there are audits of legality and regularity of the operations once the projects are finished. by way of example, in the humanitarian field (in my field), last year 50 projects with a value of almost eur 500 million were audited during their implementation and no issues relating to sexual misconduct were detected during these audits. so no doubt we have to continue in order to fight against any sexual abuse, but there is also the other side of the coin, and this is why i mention our audits through 50 partners on the ground.
in writing. the european socialists consider it essential to bear in mind that in any humanitarian emergency there is a serious risk of abuse and/or sexual exploitation of people in extremely vulnerable situations. we are therefore gravely concerned that the culture of silence, intimidation and abuse will continue as soon as the media focus on this issue is removed. the european union should reconsider funding of non-governmental organizations such as oxfam after reports emerged that some of their employees had paid for years for sex with disaster victims while on humanitarian missions. special mention should be made of the united nations, which has turned a deaf ear to allegations of abuses against syrian women by some of its staff and organizations such as the international rescue committee for at least three years. it is necessary to raise awareness of this problem and to ensure the protection of women and girls in order to prevent sexual exploitation in situations of war or in the context of humanitarian disasters of any kind. it is not possible to continue to ignore systematic abuse and to tolerate victims fearing precisely those organisations which are supposed to guarantee their well-being and ultimately their survival.
in writing. the european socialists consider it essential to bear in mind that in any humanitarian emergency there is a serious risk of abuse and/or sexual exploitation of people in extremely vulnerable situations. we are therefore gravely concerned that the culture of silence, intimidation and abuse will continue as soon as the media focus on this issue is removed. the european union should reconsider funding of non-governmental organizations such as oxfam after reports emerged that some of their employees had paid for years for sex with disaster victims while on humanitarian missions. special mention should be made of the united nations, which has turned a deaf ear to allegations of abuses against syrian women by some of its staff and organizations such as the international rescue committee for at least three years. it is necessary to raise awareness of this problem and to ensure the protection of women and girls in order to prevent sexual exploitation in situations of war or in the context of humanitarian disasters of any kind. it is not possible to continue to ignore systematic abuse and to tolerate victims fearing precisely those organisations which are supposed to guarantee their well-being and ultimately their survival.
in writing. the european socialists consider it essential to bear in mind that in any humanitarian emergency there is a serious risk of abuse and/or sexual exploitation of people in extremely vulnerable situations. we are therefore gravely concerned that the culture of silence, intimidation and abuse will continue as soon as the media focus on this issue is removed. the european union should reconsider funding of non-governmental organizations such as oxfam after reports emerged that some of their employees had paid for years for sex with disaster victims while on humanitarian missions. special mention should be made of the united nations, which has turned a deaf ear to allegations of abuses against syrian women by some of its staff and organizations such as the international rescue committee for at least three years. it is necessary to raise awareness of this problem and to ensure the protection of women and girls in order to prevent sexual exploitation in situations of war or in the context of humanitarian disasters of any kind. it is not possible to continue to ignore systematic abuse and to tolerate victims fearing precisely those organisations which are supposed to guarantee their well-being and ultimately their survival.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, listening to some members i feel a little embarrassed, quite frankly: dad, mum, dad, dad, mum, mum... no dad, uncle, grandfather, even people living alone and still feeling like families. we must have a little respect for people in this parliament, because there are many people whom we represent and who vote for us, and who have the same right to have a family and to feel like one regardless of their sexual orientation. so please, a respect. because these statements hurt us; they hurt us as people, they hurt us as politicians, and i have to say it like this. nuclear, extended, single-parent, foster, separated, foster, reconstituted families. i'm not sure what you mean. family members. with capital letters. family members. and so it seems to me normal that the european commission has decided not to celebrate this day. because the european commission has many more problems to deal with and these are problems such as, for example, making a european social fund that can guarantee that individuals, that families have the capacity to be able to have social welfare, to be able to have a dignified life; so that these families can have housing, decent schools. it doesn't matter one day, it doesn't matter the celebration of one day. what matters is to make serious policies so that families can have good conditions. and, you see, mr president, the family is more than a biological concept: it is inclusion.
in writing. transport is responsible for a quarter of eu ghg emissions. since 2013, despite warnings from the scientific community, emissions from this sector have been growing steadily, threatening the achievement of the goals of the paris agreement on climate change. as it is not subject to emissions trading, it is the states that have to develop transport policies to reduce emissions, but little or nothing can be done with economies heavily conditioned by the automobile industry, on which up to 10% of gdp depends. the sector continues to produce polluting vehicles, with a more than amortized model, and no changes are envisaged even in the face of a high real demand for electric vehicles, to the extent that german delivery companies have had to manufacture their own vans. without penalties in europe for misrepresenting emissions and with governments and the commission fearful of job losses or relocation, even the least ambitious targets are falling short. the new measures adopted to reduce emissions from combustion engines will be of no use without a genuine commitment to the electrification of freight transport in all its aspects.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the development paradigm we have chosen to maintain our identity as a union, to maintain our global leadership and our social model, is based on sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. these three characteristics are manufactured with knowledge and values. they therefore need the support of a flexible education system, which is constantly changing and focused on providing people with the training they will need to enter adult life in the best conditions. i think it should be emphasized that all the improvements in education that we demand from the institutional, from the public, will only work if we take on what is our responsibility as citizens, as parents. we cannot assume that we are complying, and not doing so delegitimizes us to demand anything from teachers, from teachers and from the system in which they work. we need an education in equality. no stereotypes, you know? we need digital literacy, mastery of visual language, the ability to develop critical and creative thinking and the habit of working in teams, combining skills, abilities and knowledge. we need to teach diversity as a source of value that must be respected. and of course, to promote pluralism and solidarity. because this is the basis of inclusive growth which is the basis of stability and social justice. the challenge of achieving these objectives requires investing, first, in the professionals in the sector, reviewing the tools we offer them to train and adapt to change. and to offer them technology not as an end but as a tool in the service of a profession, of an intelligence that can never be artificial. organize the whole system with equal opportunity in mind. i therefore fully support extending the principle on which the european higher education area is based to the other levels of education. that is the basis of the european educational area to which this report refers: facilitating mobility, mutual recognition. to encourage exchanges of people, teachers and students, and of good practice. i believe that this process would make it possible to move towards a concept that we need: the european talent.
in writing. the challenges facing the union cannot be met without an education system better adapted to a global, changing and competitive environment. when we talk about 'modernizing' education, however, we are not just talking about making better use of new technological and digital opportunities. it is also about updating educational methods according to the best scientific evidence. we know that schools are not just 'assembly lines' of educational outcomes, but that people, their skills and preferences, matter. the education system is not working with crude, docile materials, but with diverse human brains, shaped by millennia of biological evolution and exposed to different social and cultural influences. identifying both the talent and the learning difficulties of students early is crucial to reconciling equality and excellence. in this respect, individual differences in the abilities of european pupils should be studied and taken into account. education must be at the heart of the european political agenda. quality education is fundamental to the development of a strong and united europe, with active citizenship participating in the construction of the european project.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to thank my colleagues, first of all, from the committee on fisheries, for all their contributions to this report. ladies and gentlemen, aquaculture in the european union provides sustainable, high-quality products to the consumer, and our european sector is one to be proud of. however, although aquaculture has been growing steadily worldwide for half a century, its potential has not yet been fully realised in the european union. the growth of the sector sometimes faces several problems. among them are the lack of available sea space for their activities or administrative obstacles, particularly those arising from licensing procedures, or the competition that exists on the world market, combined with insufficient information to the consumer about aquaculture products from third countries, as regards their quality, environmental footprint, social conditions, fish welfare, or the bad image that citizens sometimes have of aquaculture, and so on and so forth. it is true that good initiatives and intentions abound. the european commission published a communication in 2009 focused on building a sustainable future for aquaculture. in 2013, it published a report on the strategic guidelines for the sustainable development of aquaculture in the european union. the new common fisheries policy also aims, among other things, to give new impetus to aquaculture in the european union, allocating funding of eur 1.2 billion for its dissemination for the period 2014-2020. however, implementation did not meet the sector's expectations, and the initial enthusiasm soon turned to disappointment and defeatism. what do we need to do, then? the strategies proposed by the european commission are still very relevant today. we must simplify administrative procedures, ensuring the sustainable development and growth of aquaculture through spatial coordination planning, enhancing the competences of aquaculture in the european union or promoting a level playing field for operators in the european union and exploiting their competitive advantages. and all of this remains a challenge that must be met. a large group of scientific advisers has recently issued, at the request of commissioner vella, a report entitled 'food from the oceans: how can we get more food and biomass from the oceans without depriving future generations of their benefits?' your recommendations, ladies and gentlemen, are very relevant, and i share them all fully. we need to integrate a paradigm - as they say - of responsible ocean food culture into the overall policy agendas at the level of european and global systems. and also, as the report says, the development of mariculture in europe must be taken to a higher and more strategic level, through a comprehensive and coordinated political strategy. in summary, the problems have been identified, the diagnosis is good and the solutions proposed so far are very relevant. what is needed is political momentum in a context of mutual respect for each other's roles between the institutions of the european union and the local and regional administrations of the member states. the necessary subsidiarity for the management of aquaculture in the european union must be combined with reinforced action at the level of the european union, setting objectives at the level of the european union, while opting for regionalised objectives adapted to the particularities of each branch of aquaculture at local and regional level. i'm finished, your honours. we should not forget that the european parliament has been a co-legislator since 2009 and that any future policy will have to be jointly developed by the council and the european parliament. and i'm particularly proud of these accomplishments. i would like to conclude by saying that there are imminent opportunities and appointments which we must not miss if we are to give the european union's saltwater and freshwater aquaculture the place it deserves. and we must also seize the opportunity that this report gives us.
madam president, the administrative complexity and lack of transparency of the licensing procedures mentioned in mr iturgaiz's report can be an excuse for implementing processes, an excuse for complementarity, which replace small-scale fishing and even sustainable aquaculture. i come from a country, galicia, which lives sustainably from fishing and which, in addition, has its own competence in the interior of the lagoons both in fisheries and in seafood farming and also in aquaculture. the administrative complexity of the report, which is hampered by the demands of society, means that my people have risen up against the galician plan for aquaculture which mr iturgaiz's party wanted to promote and have risen up because it was going to replace our productive activity and therefore we do not want large marine industries but rather sustainable fishing. that is why i shall vote against this report.
madam president, providing a safe harbour for the more than 600 people on board the aquarius is an obligation under international law and a humanitarian obligation. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the situation in the mediterranean, which will be presented to the council in the near future. italy is right to ask for the involvement of all the member states, but it is wrong to refuse to take care of shipwreck victims. celebrating as a victory prolonging the agony of these people is unacceptable. victory is saving lives. today we are witnessing once again the failure of european migration and asylum policy. it is urgent to agree on new rules that will take us away from the selfish, overbearing and uncoordinated image we are giving of europe. fortunately, today we have valencia, which, like barcelona and catalonia, wants to be and is a mediterranean land of welcome. that is why the government of catalonia has already offered to take in the 600 refugees on the aquarius.
thank you, madam president. is there a hitler foundation in germany? i'm not going to die. is there a salazar foundation in portugal? i'm not going to. is there a mussolini foundation in italy? - what? but in spain, yes, there is the franco foundation and that foundation makes the apology of fascism and the spanish dictatorship. look at this photo, it's the pazo de meirás, heritage stolen from the galician people, summer residence of the dictator. this pazo was taken by 19 pacifists who entered peacefully to ask that it be returned to the galician people because it is now the family of the dictator, the franco family. the same one that, along with the franco foundation, just denounced the 19 activists for hate crimes, among others. it's the world upside down. it is intolerable that fascism is still being defended in europe. the current president sánchez has a historic opportunity to outlaw the franco foundation.
madam president, on 1 june a motion of censure threw mariano rajoy out of the spanish government. the cases of corruption in the spanish pp had been accumulating, and there had been a conviction. there was another one today where the pp was said to have committed a crime. a judge ruled months ago that the pp was a criminal organization. this is the government which has so far been applauded almost enthusiastically by the european institutions when it has persecuted and imprisoned catalan leaders. corruption and the abandonment of refugees are bringing the union into spectacular disrepute, while in spain there are political prisoners and exiles who are elected politicians or artists or simple citizens exercising their democratic rights. the scandal is major. either the european union reacts, or its complaints against dictatorships and injustices in the world will be nothing but the cynical cries of those who share, but do not combat, the anti-democratic principles of fascism and the anti-democratic far right. now we're playing this: freedom, justice and democracy.
madam president, the workers of gestipack, a subcontractor of the german multinational dhl, complained to the labour inspectorate that the company was paying them less than the wage stipulated in the collective agreement. the inspection found that the company had acted fraudulently and ordered it to comply with the agreement. however, the employer decided to lay off the entire staff. meanwhile, the parent company dhl has disagreed and has opted to change the contract without guaranteeing the surrogacy of the workers. this is a clear example of gender discrimination in employment, causing the wage gaps suffered by women, condoned and widened by regressive labour reforms that make it easier for unscrupulous employers to exploit women workers and subsequently fire them at little cost. the contractor and the parent company must assume their labour and social responsibility and correct this situation immediately. we must not look the other way and we will not if we believe in real equality. so, from here, all our solidarity and support to the workers of gestipack.
madam president, in the meeting of the council at the end of the month, i hope that the member states will take a more firm position on migration than they have done so far. have they, for instance, the political will to effectively reform dublin? we don’t need nice words with no real political content. what happened two days ago, against international law, with the boat in italy and malta is just the latest scandal in which the eu must intervene, if it still has the capacity of speaking on its own and wishes to be taken into account. the reaction of valencia or of barcelona or of corsica, offering themselves to receive those migrants in danger, is a good example of humanity and decent politics. i hope you will talk in your meeting about these things. i hope you will explicitly mention those who are not living up to their responsibilities and that you will mention those who feel responsible for the needs of others. something is now clear and urgent. to talk about the future of europe means to talk about the europe of the future.
madam president, we have reached such a low point in the management of migration in europe that a humane, solidary, intelligent and in line with international law decision, such as that taken by the president of the spanish government, pedro sánchez, is an exception that fills us with hope. it is true, as other colleagues have said, that in italy, spain, greece and malta we are alone in managing migration. that is true, but we tell mr salvini that cruelty to other human beings can never be a victory. we need to have a coordinated policy, and we have been saying that in this parliament for years. and we have to say to the council: 'you are not doing anything'. yes, they do one thing: fuel the xenophobes in europe. the council's inaction is turning xenophobia into an incessant political gallop. do something. this parliament has told you how to reform the dublin regulation. do something, because this is the main problem in europe: they are undermining the credibility of the project and giving wings to all the xenophobes and anti-europeans. do something, and let us congratulate the spanish government for being able to connect with the feeling of many europeans who are in solidarity. (the speaker refuses to be asked a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
madam president, today the lives of more than 600 people are in danger: children, 'more than 120 unaccompanied minors', women and men who are knocking on europe's door to escape war and hunger. and in the face of this reality, the italian government's refusal to come to the rescue shows the darkest side of europe: the side that looks the other way, that makes populism and xenophobia a danger to europe. mr salvini will have to be reminded that, however much victory he may sing, there is one thing he will not be able to recover and that is decency and dignity. but there is room for hope, and the spanish government is offering to take in these people, fulfilling international commitments and responding to a humanitarian crisis. and that gives us the moral authority to demand more european policy in the council. some people feel patriotic by wrapping themselves in a flag. today we are many more who feel pride of country, pride of a spain of solidarity that serves those who need it most.
madam president, the european council and the member states must respond to the calls for solidarity from the vast majority of european citizens who do not accept that we should let people die at sea. the spanish government has decided to welcome the 'aquarius', and the basque president has offered to take 10% of these people to the basque country for dignity and respect for fundamental rights. euskadi is a small country. solidarity welcomed the basques when we were seeking protection or wanted to overcome poverty, and we owe it to those who now need the same. that is why, when the first allocations were made, the basque country had already organised an operational and effective interinstitutional response to take our part. it has not been able to take advantage of it until today because our member state simply failed to fulfil its obligations in this area. mrs panayotova: there are ways of solving this problem, we just have to mobilize them. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. mr timmermans: opening europe's borders is a global decision, but welcoming and integrating immigrants is a challenge to which local and regional communities respond. when do you think this level should be fully integrated into the design of the immigration solution? (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, europe is adrift because it is a ship of shame, a ship that leads to the stubbornness of powerlessness. i would like to say to the council and the commission that they should show humanity by listening to the xenophobes and racists in this parliament. do you want to be complicit in these dehumanizing policies? do you want to be complicit with states that look the other way while 600 human beings can die in the middle of the sea? pregnant women and children who could be our children? do we want to be a graveyard at sea? the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments. we need common rules for asylum seekers. a humanitarian order in europe is needed to save lives. it is so difficult to understand when this chamber is full of xenophobes and racists who have no humanity - and that has to be said! and we must help precisely for humanitarian reasons, to avert a catastrophe and to restore a minimum of dignity to europe, a minimum of dignity!
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, just a couple of ideas in two minutes. on the european monetary fund, i think double accountability will have to be introduced. national parliaments should continue to be in charge of accounting for their programmes and actions from the imf, but so should the european parliament. how can we explain to our voters that the european parliament – the institution that wants to represent democracy in the eu – does not have a say over the conditions in bailouts? this anomaly needs to be addressed – otherwise, if meps cannot decide on europe-wide important issues, why should people go to vote in the next european elections? by excluding the european parliament from crucial decisions, the ground is ready for the next generation of eurosceptics. the second idea: on the other hand, it is important that the fiscal compact is implemented through eu law. i think it is a good moment to check how its application has worked in different member states, and how we can improve it. for example, in the case of spain, the central government has arbitrarily put a much more stringent deficit objective to regional governments than to the central government. this has been a way to force cuts in welfare state and social policies. similarly, many local governments in spain with very low debt are not allowed by the central government to use the cash they have in the banks for investments on social policies. so control of excessive spending should not be a new excuse for recentralisation.
mr president, mr vice-president dombrovskis, you have asked for parliament's support for a euro that serves the people. look, of all those who believe in europe, in my constituency, which is all of spain, or here in parliament, of all those who understand that there is no future in a divided europe - among other things, because it will be much more dependent on the follies of a trump, for example - of all of them, you have the support. but the construction of this single currency must be based on two pillars: structural reforms, of course - we must not pretend that we have reached perfection - and solidarity. for example, in my country, i wish we could reform the structure of our delusional system of regions, which never allows us to meet the deficit. but solidarity means sharing risks, without any ambition, and it means ending edis very soon. and we don't have time to wait. the first shot must be fired in june so that europe can create a single currency with much more determination and much more urgency.
mr president, the crisis on that boat full of refugees in the last few days, the aquarius, has reminded us that we cannot have a schengen union without a border, without a common management of national borders. in the same vein, the eurozone crisis has also reminded us that we cannot have a monetary pillar - a common monetary policy - without a fiscal structure, without a fiscal instrument to help mitigate crises, to help navigate the eurozone through difficult waters. that is why it is vital to close the banking union now. this parliament has to do its job to close now and to come to an agreement on deposit insurance, and we need to respond to the commission's proposals to build a fiscal instrument, an automatic stabiliser, to accompany monetary policy. it's time to do it. it is time for this europe of solidarity to respond to the refugee crisis, as the spanish government has done, and for europe to respond to the eurozone crisis as well.
in writing. economic and monetary union is incomplete, as the crisis has shown. banking union has partially remedied this situation for the euro area with the harmonisation of banking regulation through the european banking authority and the single supervision established in the european central bank. however, the banking union is still incomplete, as european deposit insurance has not yet been implemented, nor has it been agreed that the european stability mechanism (esm) will be the fiscal backstop for the under-resourced single resolution fund. the european council in madrid in december last year stressed the need to strengthen the european union's external relations and to strengthen the european union's external relations. it is also necessary to have an anti-cyclical budget in the euro area, which can also lend credibility to the issuance of debt securities, and to integrate the esm into the community acquis. the june 2018 european council should take these and other steps, in line with the proposals of the commission and the president of france, to achieve the full federalisation of the eurozone.
in writing. emu is incomplete, as the crisis has shown. banking union has partially remedied this in the euro area, with the harmonisation of banking regulation through the european banking authority and the single supervision established in the european central bank. however, the banking union remains incomplete, with no european deposit insurance yet implemented, and no agreement on the european stability mechanism (esm) as the fiscal backstop for the under-resourced single resolution fund. the european council in madrid in december last year stressed the need to strengthen the european union's external relations and to strengthen the european union's external relations. the euro area also needs an anti-cyclical budget to give credibility to the issuance of debt securities and to integrate the esm into the community acquis. the june 2018 european council should take these and other steps, in line with the proposals of the commission and the president of france, to achieve the full federalisation of the eurozone.
mr president, my explanation of vote is exactly the opposite of that of the colleague who spoke earlier. i voted in favour of this report on recreational fishing because i believe that it is growing in importance and that it does have a very important impact on marine resources. it is therefore a matter for the countries, not for the european union, but because of the weight it is taking, we have to take it into account and it is essential to better manage our marine resources. i therefore believe that it is appropriate to have regulation in the future within the community fisheries policy. i also think it is essential in this report that we have real data on this sector which we do not know. we are speculating at the moment, but we do not know what the actual data are and, of course, we need clear definitions of recreational, sport and commercial fisheries.
mr president, it is very good news that we can finally guarantee an efficient system for monitoring and reporting emissions from heavy duty vehicles. it is an important step, although not a definitive one. we think it would be appropriate to talk here about the transport of food, an issue in which the rural world and the urban world are directly confronted, because we must return to local consumption, to linking the countryside and the city if we really want to save this planet. reports estimate that road freight volumes in europe will increase at an annual average of 3% until 2020; therefore, improvements in fuel and vehicle efficiency may not be enough. we need european legislation that really fights air pollution, that goes towards the practical elimination of combustion engine vehicles, which are precisely the main cause of this type of pollution.
i would like to point out, mr president, that paragraph 134 of the report on the modernisation of education in the union, which was adopted today, recommends that member states integrate learning about the union into their secondary school curricula in order to familiarize students with the functioning of the union, its history and the values of european citizenship. that sounds great. for years i have been calling for schools in the member states to promote a better understanding of the institutions of the european union, their background, their functioning and their objectives. you only value what you know. that is why i have repeatedly called for the creation of a kind of 'european signature'. and in this connection i would like to point out that last month the council adopted a recommendation proposed by commissioner navracsics which goes precisely in this direction. the european union will accompany young europeans throughout their lives. it is important that you study it carefully in your family centres. it should not be studied lightly or superficially, like any other international organization. the european union is much more important to young europeans than the other international organisations that were born after the second world war and they should therefore know it well.
mr president, i would really like the rapporteur to explain to us how the promotion of the local economy and sustainability is compatible with aquaculture laws such as the one his party, the partido popular, wanted to promote in galicia, for example. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not affected by the introduction of new technologies. and it's that the blue economy, like the green economy, doesn't seek to promote, doesn't focus on the sustainability of resources, but rather, quite the opposite, on how to continue doing business with them without considering that they are limited. sustainable aquaculture can under no circumstances become the perfect excuse to give greater cover and favour to large companies. sustainable aquaculture means investing in local economies and family businesses, promoting responsible consumption and reducing food waste. the people of the sea have been denouncing for some time that there is a clear intention to dismantle the artisanal fishing fleet and to favour a very specific model that will put value on large companies to the detriment of small ones and economies of scale to the detriment of local consumption. how long are we going to continue to encourage this kind of trade and market from these institutions?
mr president, i voted in favour of this report, which i think is important in highlighting the importance of aquaculture in europe and some of the problems it is facing today. the european union is the world's largest market for fishery and aquaculture products. the member states are currently importing 60% of the total of what we all consume in europe. this indicates that aquaculture can play a much more relevant role and that this sector therefore has great potential in the european union. and yet, that's not what's happening. world production outside the european union has grown by 7% a year since 2000, while aquaculture production in europe has been in recession for the last decade. that is why this report is an opportunity. it means that we have the potential to grow further, and to do that, we need to invest in innovation. aquaculture, finally, provides high quality products with high sustainability and consumer protection standards. the european union must therefore support this sector.
mr president, i would like to express my support for the report 'towards a sustainable and competitive european aquaculture sector' by my colleague carlos iturgaiz. it is aimed at giving aquaculture a prominent place in the european union's economy, where, unfortunately, it is not making progress. while aquaculture has grown dramatically in other parts of the world, particularly in asia, over the past decade, european production has generally stagnated. in spain, for example, the prestigious sector of the mussel farming is an important activity, especially in my home country of galicia. the european union is the world's largest importer of fishery products. many of these imports come from aquaculture. more than half of european aquaculture consumption is served by non-european products. our market therefore offers european aquaculture a wide space to develop, but our companies face numerous bureaucratic difficulties and also obstacles to accessing suitable spaces. it is also not easy to make headway in the face of the already strong competition from non-european products. all this means lost opportunities for wealth and also for employment in a europe, especially in the south, which needs to continue to create jobs. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the fisheries sector is not left behind.
mr president, i take all your words to heart, mrs mogherini. you've been impeccable, you've been correct and you've made an impeccable analysis of the whole situation. when we were in tehran talking to ali akbar velayati, he said something that was very obvious: "we respect the agreement if the agreement respects us". and, consequently, whether we are able to meet the trade-off between nuclear security with multisecurity and development. if we are unable to ensure development because the united states, through its economic pressure and its strategic control of financial movements, is blocking it, we must not simply resort to the blockade regulation. look, mrs mogherini, i believe in friendship and cooperation with the united states, just as i believe that the distance between washington and brussels is the same as the distance between brussels and washington. and that way, to be respected, we have to be respectable and we can't just comply with our money through the blocking regulation. if we are made by the economic pressures we are victims of, the only language that that coarse businessman trump understands is, quite simply, contradiction.
mr president, the high representative has reminded us of the need to insist on the maintenance of the nuclear agreement with iran for security reasons, provided that iran fulfils its obligations. according to the international atomic energy agency, two-thirds of the centrifuges have been destroyed, 95% of the enriched uranium is out of the country and the arak nuclear reactor is inoperable. however, madam high representative, there is a question floating around: will european companies with interests in the united states risk sanctions from this country? you have just said it: can the commission obtain exemptions? the truth is, after the steel and aluminum tariffs and the g7 meeting, it's doubtful. if we look back at singapore at the moment, we see that the north korean autocrat, on the basis of his sixty nuclear bombs and more than 1,000 missiles, has obtained his moment of glory. there is no alternative to what the high representative is proposing. it is very important to maintain this nuclear agreement, but it is also very important to maintain the human rights that are continuously being degraded in the country.
mr president, i find all my colleagues very cautious, really. some things we already know: that trump has come to blow up the system of international relations, carefully constructed after the cold war, we already know, it has already happened; that president trump has decided to have a bad relationship with his allies in the g-7, with his northern neighbor, canada, with his southern neighbor, mexico, and with the european union, we also know, that has already happened; that his constant provocations and bandages have made the world a more insecure place, we also know. now it remains to be seen how we react to something that is already a certainty: that this behavior is a behavior that makes the world more dangerous today than it was before trump was president of the united states. the way to react to this, certainly not one, is to defend our interests in a united way. what is left for this parliament, therefore, this afternoon, as we are doing, is to strengthen the position of the european union and firmly support the action of the high representative in defending a nuclear pact which is probably one of the most important tools for our security and stability. we must know that we have no friend in the white house, and perhaps we can strengthen our own friendship within the european borders, make ourselves stronger, since what we are facing, unfortunately, is a new phenomenon. and he's a white house tenant who's not here to help us, but quite the opposite. and i think the work of the high representative in these last few months in defending the nuclear agreement is excellent work. i think we are all convinced that our stability and security depend to a large extent on that agreement being maintained, and that is why i want to give my full support to the high representative's task today.
mr president, today, from this house, we want to condemn in the strongest possible terms the unilateral decision of the trump administration to violate the nuclear agreement with iran. it was an agreement which also had verification mechanisms, and we knew that the commitments deriving from it were being fulfilled. an agreement that for us is much more than an agreement. it is a key piece to preventing a nuclear escalation in a region today with very high tensions. we therefore want to strongly support the efforts of the high representative and the council to safeguard this agreement and to send two messages. today we are not talking about iran. we speak of diplomacy and multilateralism as mechanisms for ordering international relations - 'word versus force'; that is what europe stands for today. and we're talking about transatlantic relations, which are breaking down. the lack of confidence we have in the new us administration today must be met with a firm response from europe in defence of our interests and our values.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, first of all, let me thank you all for having expressed quite clearly a sort of convergence and a certain unity behind the work we are doing to try to preserve the nuclear deal with iran. it is the same unity that i have seen in the commission, the same unity that i have seen in the european council, in the foreign affairs council, and the same unity that i have seen uniting the european union within our union, but also with our international partners all around the world. let me stress this point because we have a responsibility as europeans at this time. the world is looking at us to try and preserve this achievement – no achievement is perfect, but it’s an achievement – and it’s also looking at us to find ways themselves – our international partners – to contribute to preserving these agreements. i have heard a certain confusion on the extreme right of the chamber. you know i never enter into these discussions, but i think i have to clarify a couple of things. one is the nature of the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) because fake news can produce fake news and can itself become fake news. let me be very clear on this: the nuclear deal with iran is not a treaty. it has never been a treaty. it is a multilateral agreement that was negotiated for 12 years under the mandate of the un security council, which mandated the high representative of the european union to facilitate the negotiations between iran, on one side, and germany, france, the uk, the us, china and russia, on the other side, to reach an agreement that then became a un security council resolution annex. so the legal framework that legitimates the jcpoa is not in the nature of being a bilateral or multilateral treaty. this is why it has not been ratified by parliament, but it is an annex to the un security council resolution. there is a un security council resolution that unanimously endorsed and approved the text of the jcpoa and if you want to see it – sorry, the colleague has disappeared, as fake news disappears from time to time – the signed version of the jcpoa is in my office. you’re free to come and see it. it exists. it’s 102-3 pages long – it takes some time to read it and probably a lot of time to understand it – but it exists and it’s available on the website for everybody to consult it. indeed it has a legal basis, being a un security council resolution document. as such, technically speaking, the unilateral move of the united states administration is the unilateral decision to stop complying with the un security council resolution the united states itself voted. that is just to clarify what the jcpoa is. the second element of confusion i see especially – well, only – on the extreme right part of the chamber is this – and i understand the political dilemma that some political forces might have at this stage, namely following the trump agenda of destroying multilateralism and going only to bilateral agreements or affirming european autonomy. in french i would say ‘c’est où votre souverainisme?’, because for me protecting and preserving european interests – security interests, economic decisions – at this stage is a matter of priority. i’m surprised that some forces that have always argued for sovereignty and autonomy are now tempted to follow not brussels but washington. i think this is a mistake. this is a mistake that goes beyond the nuclear deal with iran, but i leave this for political reflection in some parts of europe. what is at stake today? first of all, what is a stake is the risk that iran decides to restart its process to achieve a nuclear weapon. this is what we are talking about. the agreement is not perfect. i don’t know about you, but i don’t know anything in diplomacy – not even in life – that is perfect. no agreement, no deal is perfect, but this agreement is working. this agreement’s purpose was – and still is – to prevent iran from developing a nuclear weapon and it is preventing iran from developing a nuclear weapon. that’s it. the risk is that, were this agreement not in place tomorrow, what would be the immediate consequence? nuclear proliferation? iran developing a nuclear programme that is not peaceful? the region going into a spiral of nuclear proliferation? and we know the region. we know the conflictuality of the region and some of you were perfectly right: the risk of slipping into a major scale conflict is real. it’s perfectly possible. there are two other issues at stake: the credibility of multilateralism and of international agreements – i would say of un security council resolutions. the arguments that whatever is signed can be destroyed unilaterally after a few years is a dangerous one. i often gave this example in washington. if a private company signs an agreement, when the ceo changes the agreement stays in place. if we introduce the element of uncertainty of agreements signed, the entire world collapses and the credibility of any negotiation – of any negotiation – collapses, and the international system also goes in that direction. so what is at stake is – and our responsibility is big in this – to try to maintain the credibility of diplomacy and multilateralism and, at the end of the day, bilateral agreements as well, because if you can unilaterally withdraw from a multilateral agreement, why shouldn’t you do the same on a bilateral agreement if at a certain moment you change your mind? third, what is at stake is the autonomy of the european union. this goes beyond the nuclear agreement with iran. this would lead us to a different kind of debate, one that we will surely have at some point, but it is essential that the european union, together with our international partners, is able to take decisions based on merit, based on our interests and our values, and based on what we think and decide is good for us and for the rest of the region and the world, that, by the way, was a joint analysis and a joint decision not only with our american friends, but also with the rest of international community. otherwise, the un security council resolution would not have been unanimously adopted. we didn’t move from where we were, and our analysis of what is in our interest and the global interest stays the same, especially after 11 reports that the deal has worked and that iran is compliant. i believe that we need to be able to affirm that the european union positions are determined in europe. having said that, the risk of not managing to save this agreement is real and i think we should not underestimate that we are running a risk. even if we do all we can – and we are doing all we can – to preserve this agreement, there is a risk that this derails. i think we have the power and the instruments, together with our member states and together with the other international partners we have, to prevent this agreement from being completely disrupted. but there is a risk that this work does not succeed. i think this is the worst case scenario because this would undermine security – nothing to do with stability – and would undermine the nuclear non—proliferation regime and the credibility of the west and of multilateralism and diplomacy. this is why i believe that, even if it’s difficult – and i see all the limitations – we have the responsibility to try to achieve this result. even if it’s difficult, we must we must do all we can together to preserve this agreement, and this is exactly what we are doing because, again, the scenario of not having the agreement in place would be a disaster for europe, for the security of the middle east, for the proliferation of nuclear weapons, and i believe also for the united states of america. (applause)
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, on behalf of the high representative / vice—president, i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur, charles tannock, for his recommendation. it shows how much we all value our relationship with chile, and it proves that there is strong support within parliament for the work done throughout the negotiations. chile was the first country in latin america to sign an association agreement with us. the new agreement we are now negotiating will once again be a model for other deals. this is not only about trade: it is about human rights; it is about the protection of the environment; it is about sustainable development and culture; it is about energy and workers’ rights. europe and chile are very far apart geographically, but we see the world with the same eyes. vemos el mundo con los mismos ojos. pronunciation in spanish! we both believe in the un system and in the power of multilateralism. chile has taken part in our csdp mission in bosnia, and it was the first latin american country to sign a framework agreement for participation in our missions. we work together on scientific research, for instance under the copernicus programme, and when last year chile was hit by a wave of wild fires, we sent our fire-fighting planes and our firefighters from many european countries to contain the emergency. we both believe in solidarity as a driving force in international relations. let me also thank chile for having opened its doors to many venezuelan refugees fleeing from their country. i saw the situation when i was in this region just two months ago. these negotiations show the potential for cooperation between like-minded partners like us. our updated agreement will not only aim to strengthen our economies, it will also protect our workers, our trademark products, and our environment. it will demonstrate there is no better way to protect our interests than through strong cooperation with our partners. this is international cooperation at its best. we want to show that globalisation can be governed together, with more rights, more protections, making international trade both free and fair. the negotiations are making good progress, and we have the ambition to conclude them as soon and possible, and certainly before the end of this commission’s mandate. on the occasion of the next round of negotiations on the political and cooperation pillar on 21 june, we will also hold an eu-chile association committee, with a focus not only on bilateral issues, but also on the regional and international situation. once negotiations are concluded, we look forward to holding an eu-chile association council, which the high representative will co-chair with foreign minister ampuero. let me also stress that the work we are doing with chile comes at a moment of strong engagement with the whole of latin america and the caribbean. our negotiations with mexico and mercosur are also moving on, and by the end of the mandate we will present a new strategy for even closer relations with latin america and the caribbean. i know we can count on chile as a strong partner not only in our bilateral relations, but also in the larger context of relations between our two regions. right now, we are working together to prepare the next eu-celac ministerial meeting, and we are also willing to expand our relations with the pacific alliance. we are currently working on a joint declaration with the four members of the alliance, to identify precisely the fields where we could work together, in the interest of all our citizens.we live in a complex and confused moment in the history of the world, unfortunately, when nothing seems certain and even the most basic international rules are called into question. but our relationship with latin america is here to stay, and will only get stronger. our peoples and our economies are tied. we share the same principles and worldview. europe and latin america are closer than ever, and have the strongest interest in getting even closer. together, we can be a force for good for the people of europe, for the people of latin america, and for our troubled and confused world.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, i would like to congratulate charles. it's a great ease to be able to work with him. he is a simple person, open and knows the files well. it's easy and very useful to work with. chile is an example in ibero-america. chile is an example in democracy, in stability, in what it means to be socially inclusive, economically open and in the reliability of its administrative and judicial institutions. it is, in that sense, an example for all the other countries in america. it is also true - and commissioner stylianides has said so - that it is a country which receives tens of thousands of venezuelans, less intensely because of its geographical distance, but also in an open spirit of solidarity. chile has made its geographical challenge - its american eccentricity - an extraordinarily successful solution. and in that sense, there is something that is fundamental: the pacific alliance. we are subject to a continuing fracturing, a paradigm shift by the us administration. the last one was the contempt, via twitter, of mr trump's twitter thinking, where he has olympically despised his counterparts, both from the european union and from other countries. our projection has to be strategically with ibero-america, and, within ibero-america, there is a fundamental part, which is the part that has the window to the pacific. the pacific alliance is the most important and most effective of all the partnerships that exist in the americas. and in that sense it is important that europe even has an observer presence in the pacific alliance. i understand that our improvement project with chile is a strategic project and we certainly support it.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, the modernisation of an agreement is the right time to take stock of what has gone well and what has not and, in this case, to try to remedy it. let us not see modernization as just an opportunity to achieve more profit at any cost. in the case of the 2003 eu-chile association agreement, while progress has been made in some areas, we see very clearly what issues remain. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the challenges of the 21st century. i would like to mention a few examples. the current water code turns water into a commodity and establishes rights that can be sold. the consequence: water hoarding by large national and international investors for export agriculture. small farmers, as well as entire communities, are left without this essential good and have to buy water from tankers. this is the case, for example, in petorca, near the capital, santiago. the report as it comes to the plenary reaffirms access to water as a human right. i ask you not to support the amendment which reduces the content. on the contrary, we must support those who are threatened in chile for defending this right and ask the union delegation in santiago to publicly defend the modatima organisation and its president, mundaca. another fatal legacy of pinochetism is the discrimination against indigenous peoples: anti-terrorist justice applies only to the mapuche. it is not possible to steal their land and cut down native forests to plant eucalyptus trees so that we can have cheap paper; the modernisation of the agreement must contain very clear language on this. i ask you to vote against the amendment which trivializes the acute conflict which still exists. and finally, since the agreement came into force, too little has happened in chile to make it no longer a supplier of primary products, and this is not a side effect. this is the main effect of the agreement and we have to change this if we want more equitable relations between chile and the european union (the speaker agrees to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (article 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. in this parliament we have defended and we defend and we will defend the right of each party to regulate in any association agreement and to decide how each party organizes and manages public services. and my question to you is: do you think that it should be the european institutions, through an agreement with a third country, that tell you how you have to regulate and organise your services? aside from the fact that i advocate that water be a public service, that's not the point. i am in favour of the right of the parties to decide and of non-interference. and the way chile has organized the provision of water is enshrined in its constitution. do you think this trade agreement should change the chilean constitution?
the answer is 'blue card'. thank you, madam deputy, for this question. i believe that water is an essential good that should be public, and i believe that for europeans and also for non-europeans. of course, we are not going to decide for them, but we do have the right to defend our ideals, our principles everywhere. and just to remind you, as i did in my speech, that the united nations itself says that the right to water is a basic and fundamental right, and i believe that public management of an essential good is the one that corresponds everywhere.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr tannock, on the excellent recommendation he is presenting to the house today. chile is a positive and active partner of the european union. it is already bound by an association agreement, which has worked very well in our opinion. i think we should let each country decide how it uses its natural resources. we have already had some experience with public or private ownership of the means of production, and what we find in the countries of central and eastern europe when we lift the carpet. i would like to say that chile is a country that is actively involved in the region; it is a leading member of the organization of american states; it is a founding member of the pacific alliance; it is a member of unasur; it is the first latin american country to have joined the oecd and it is also a member of the lima group. it is therefore a reliable partner for the european union in meeting global and regional challenges. of all the initiatives suggested by mr tannock to strengthen cooperation with that country, i have been particularly struck by those relating to the security and defence fields and, in that sense, all those relating to crisis management and peacekeeping operations, on the basis of the already positive experience we have had with that country. i would like to send you a message, commissioner, to try to give a little impetus to this work: the next round with the commission on market access is scheduled for october; you have said that chile was the first country to conclude an association agreement with the european union. we wouldn't want you to be the last to conclude it.
madam president, i agree with the commissioner that latin america and europe have much to do together. i totally agree. with chile in particular, too. i would like to stress two ideas which are key to this agreement. firstly, i think it is very important that europe should be able to take account of the importance of chile's platform for asia. the european economic world and, of course, european companies have a lot to do in asia through the pacific alliance, and the agreement with chile is key in that direction. and secondly, i am in favour of the idea that agreements are good: trade and political agreements are good in themselves and must be encouraged; with friendly countries like chile, even more so. now, we have to do them right. we must use this negotiation to make a better agreement, an agreement which sets out conditions on human rights, labour standards, etc., which are favourable, advanced, progressive and at the same time allow us to make this agreement in favour of the states, not the investors. that is why we must make good agreements and we must do it well in the case of chile.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report calls for a considerable strengthening of cooperation between two like-minded partners, on the basis of shared values and principles. we must not forget that it is of the utmost importance to ensure that the modernised agreement with chile is ambitious, comprehensive and balanced. multilateral cooperation plays an important role in promoting international security and effectively addressing regional and global challenges, and this agreement should provide for cooperation in security and defence, the fight against corruption, money laundering and tax evasion, among other issues, as it forms an important part of our relations. it should also fully reflect the transformative nature of the 2030 agenda for sustainable development and the role of international development cooperation in achieving the sustainable development goals. we needed strategic goals that would mobilize the resources needed to achieve them. this modernised agreement must have the potential to significantly strengthen the existing relationship and, moreover, must be based on strong parliamentary involvement. i take this opportunity to join the call for the negotiations on the agreement to be accelerated, with the aim of allowing its ratification by parliament before the end of the current european legislature, which makes it a key partner for europe, a friendly country. this enhanced settlement is good for both parties.
madam president, chile is a key player for the union. its collaboration in the colombian peace process, its participation in the santo domingo talks and its involvement in the eufor althea mission in bosnia show its commitment to the international community. it is necessary to strengthen cooperation between the european union and chile in all fields: economy, trade, education and the shared values of democracy and human rights. but it is necessary to insist on strengthening cooperation in security, in the fight against narcotics, terrorism and organised crime; cooperation in security and defence in conflict prevention; crisis management; maritime security, disarmament and non-proliferation are also very necessary. the fight against corruption, money laundering and tax evasion are also an important part of our relations. finally, with china and russia making such inroads into latin america, it is necessary for partners with shared values to strengthen their relations and their commitments.
madam president, chile is a small country but one which is very important politically and commercially and from which we also have much to learn, such as the exemplary process of transferring powers after an election. we share links and are partners at regional and global levels in defending the same principles and values that are precisely what is needed today more than ever. we have excellent bilateral relations, but the world has changed a lot since the current agreement came into force and we need to modernise it. but not just any agreement, an agreement such as this parliament is calling for, one that is ambitious, comprehensive and balanced, that strengthens dialogue and cooperation in the face of the global challenges we share, in scientific and technical cooperation, in the face of climate change, in defence of human rights, in defence of the rights of indigenous peoples and, of course, gender equality. but i think that the negotiation on the part of the modernization of the political and cooperation pillar lacks transparency. parliament must have access to all the negotiating texts, and the joint parliamentary committee has a key role to play in monitoring them. and we must ensure the involvement and participation of society in the whole process of negotiation and its implementation. we hope that you will take these recommendations into account.
madam president, chile is an important country with strong democratic institutions and a prosperous economy. the european union's relations with chile have only grown since the signing of the association agreement in 2002. trade and investment increased. the agreement now needs to be modernised and extended. i would like to see the negotiations completed in 2018, and the eu-celac ministerial meeting in july in brussels could be an opportunity to give them a boost. if we add to the agreements with mexico, central america and cuba and the multilateral agreement that of chile and the possible agreement with mercosur, we would have a vast network of agreements with the countries of latin america that will strengthen relations between the two continents. let us not forget that china's presence in latin america is growing very much. we share with ibero-america values and principles. we are natural allies, as charles tannock has rightly said. finally, it would be appropriate for the european union to participate as an observer in the dynamic pacific alliance, in which chile is a member, as european countries, including spain, are already doing.
madam president, the recommendation on the negotiation of the modernized association agreement with chile, as is customary in this type of agreement, speaks of cooperation in the field of human rights and, in particular, encourages chile to find a solution to the conflict with the indigenous mapuche people. the mapuche community in chile is fighting for their claim as an original people and for the recognition of their ancestral lands, in the face of the chilean government's rejection of the fundamental right, protected by the united nations, to decolonization. the chilean government's repression of the indigenous peoples is further exacerbated by the araucanía plan, the so-called national accord, which further deepens the problem by criminalizing the struggle and equating it with terrorism. the european union should modernise this agreement, but modernise it in order to respect the rights of the mapuche people and to stop the abominable practices of some european multinationals, which contribute to deforestation and pollution of mapuche lands and which push their inhabitants into extreme poverty and marginalization.
madam president, bilateral relations between chile and europe are very important. that is why we want to draw attention in these negotiations to the rights of the mapuche people, who have the right to political, economic, social and cultural self-determination. we have already told mr piñera that when he was in this parliament. we made that clear to him and reminded him of his commitment to human rights, which was not respected. we also want to remind you of three points. first, you cannot link the mapuche conflict with terrorism. this criminalizing measure has been evident in the extreme militarization of araucanía, the creation of a special police force, the continued use of protected witnesses and, above all, the failure of chile to comply with its commitment to ilo convention no 169 on indigenous and tribal peoples. secondly, we also remind you that these communities in resistance need dialogue and respect, and not the stick as in times of dictatorship. and finally, where is the plan to combat child poverty and poverty in general and the commitments in the field of education? in a bilateral agreement we must of course take over the human rights commitments.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i too welcome the work and efforts made by the institutions of the european union to defend human rights in the world, of course the work of the high representative and also of mr lambrinidis. i will not fall into the pessimism of saying that human rights are going backwards. it is true that much depends on the regions and that our efforts are always welcome outside the borders of the european union. what i'm saying is we have a consistency problem. the commissioner said: it is not a good time, it is not a good time for the defence of human rights, international law, fundamental rights. it is not, it is true that it is not, and that there are whole regions of the world which are falling into the question of fundamental rights, of the universality of human rights. that's right, and we have very important political leaders who advocate this questioning of fundamental values. that is why the european union must step up its work, but of course we are also sending very negative messages, are we not? and i am thinking of the italian government's recent decision to keep a ship full of people who are suffering and in need of help out of its waters, or some of the actions and decisions of president orban. i mean, it is very difficult to lecture the rest of the world on human rights when we ourselves are so flagrantly violating fundamental principles, as was the case in italy just yesterday. and i don't think salvini is the only one responsible, nor orban; i think we all are. and those who sit in the european council with salvini and with orban have a responsibility to point out the irresponsibility of these actions and to what extent they call into question our role in the world, which is a fundamental role and which i think the european union is doing well.
madam president, commissioner, today is a good day to remember something very simple: that human rights are the rights of human beings and that half the human beings in the world are women. today is a good day to remember that many women, like in saudi arabia, demanded a right, like the right to drive, and are now in prison. today is a good day to remember the repression suffered by iranian women who have dared to remove their headscarves in public or to remember the egyptian amal fathy, arrested by the authorities of her country for speaking out about sexual harassment on facebook. today we can recall that female genital mutilation still affects 30 countries and more than 200 million women and girls. or remember that in el salvador abortion is punishable in all cases and that there are women in prison, even for miscarriages. let us remember all this today and every day, because it is our job to bring hope and guarantee rights to all women in the world.
madam president, we all want to see the state of democracy and human rights improve throughout the world and would wish the european union could play an even stronger role in its promotion when dealing with third countries. however, there is a great need for consistency between eu internal and external actions. if we don’t achieve coherence between what we do at home and what we would like others to do abroad, our capacity to achieve real change in the world is seriously hindered. let me give you an example. some of us will always remember that in 2017 a member state of the european union, spain, used police violence to stop a vote – a democratic exercise in catalonia and that, in the run—up to that vote and afterwards, the same member state committed breaches of fundamental rights. and when that happened, the european union basically looked the other way, instead of trying to defend eu’s citizens’ fundamental rights and europe’s core values. it is therefore imperative for the european union, and for the credibility of its external action, not to use double standards when it comes to democracy and human rights, whether inside or outside our borders.
madam president, in a debate on human rights in the world it is also important that we talk about what is happening in europe. because here austerity policies have affected the basic rights of the population, such as education, health, social security or housing. moreover, we are witnessing how punitive populism is used as an excuse for terrorism and immigration to generate hate speech. in this way, the far right has gotten its anti-immigration, anti-refugee and islamophobic rhetoric adopted in many countries by the main parties and, above all and most worryingly, by governments like hungary's or now also italy's. we also have european countries which continue to apply legislation which allows detentions without charge or trial and, under the pretext of security, normalize repression and the restriction of the right to demonstrate or freedom of expression. we are facing an authoritarian invasion of our democracies, of which valtonyc or alsasua are clear examples. let us not be hypocrites, let us not demand from third countries what we do not fulfil in our own. let us strive to respect human rights and freedom of expression in europe.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, georgia is the most promising country in the caucasus. it is a country that is steadily walking the path of democracy, no doubt. and of course i support and respect the territorial integrity of georgia, as i support and respect the territorial integrity of ukraine and also of azerbaijan. and here is the big problem: we all agree to respect territorial integrity, without any doubt. but what have we done with the nagorno karabakh conflict? we have gone from the first declaration, which means respect for territorial integrity, to the last of the madrid-minsk agreement itself, which speaks of the right to self-determination. i would remind you that the autonomous assemblies of both ossetia and nagorno-karabakh voted not to join either georgia or azerbaijan, and we have created a very dangerous domino by allowing nagorno-karabakh to drift towards self-determination. because the question is inevitable: if we admit the right to self-determination in nagorno karabakh, what will happen subsequently in ossetia or even in crimea? we all agree on magnificent statements; we all agree that there was an invasion; we all agree that there was an aggression. but the reality is that our lack of concreteness and of uniformity in our resolutions seriously jeopardizes what we later support with rhetorical declarations, such as the declaration of nato membership itself. in spain we say that there are loves that kill.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the report makes a constant reference to the fundamental strategic role of nato, and that is true. from time to time, there are some timid references to the need for a european defence and an autonomous security concept, which is obvious. if we take into account even the references to the cep and the fact that the cep has just indicated that non-european companies, that is, north american companies, will not participate in the cep investment plans, it is clear that the paradigm has changed, and the paradigm has changed because trump has ceased to be an anecdote to be a categorical anecdote. and the categorical anecdote is called: the expulsion of the atlantic trade treaty, which we were negotiating; the rupture of the iran agreement; the rupture of the agreement against climate change... and the last one has been the intolerable contempt in the g-7, which even reaches personal offense. we are looking at mr. trump's "twitter thinking", which is fundamental because he is the main power at this moment in the world. and what this means is that the united states is no longer the permanent reliable partner we had in the european union - and these are the words of mrs merkel, who gives me the impression that she is not a decisive extremist. we must respond to this and be able to respond with our own challenges. in the face of 'american first', we must determine that nato is a fundamental pillar in european defence and security, but certainly not the only one; because one day we will wake up when mr trump reaches an agreement with mr putin and we will be like that joke we say in spain that there is a painter painting the ceiling, someone comes, takes away the ladder and says to him 'hang on to the brush, comrade': that is how we will be.
the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome, and it is not a party to the treaty of rome. this report on eu-nato relations clearly shows a foreign and defence policy which is part of an american strategy organized through nato and which is not only alien to, but contrary to, the interests of europe itself. it is a shot in the foot to any participation as an autonomous subject in the transition to multipolarity that the world is experiencing. it is the consolidation of a european union which, without its own foreign policy, sounds like an orchestra out of tune to the tune of the united states. we are talking about tensions in the east or in the southern neighbourhood, but many of the causes are hidden. and nato's involvement, of course, as in the attack on the federal republic of yugoslavia 'outside international law', which brought down the helsinki agreements. or nato's expansion to the russian borders - which also brought the paris charter to naught - or the western interventions in iraq or nato, in particular, in libya. the european union-nato partnership is not fundamental to the common security and defence policy, it is the opposite: it denies an autonomous policy and imitates the worst policy represented by nato. in the face of this proposal for military submission, in the face of rearmament and intervention, we need a truly independent defence policy which advocates détente and peace.
madam president, the european union and nato are the two major international organizations which have ensured peace and prosperity in europe since the second world war. obviously, the cooperation between the two, which has been increasingly dynamic since 2014, is very beneficial, and i want to congratulate mr paşcu on his report. the european union is not a single entity, but it is a single institution. this development will also be very useful for cooperation with nato and will strengthen the so-called european pillar. the european union and nato are complementary. this is useful, for example, for new threats such as hybrid threats, cybersecurity attacks, humanitarian crises and also in the face of terrorism itself. these and other challenges cannot be met by military means alone. the variety of resources of the european union can be very suitable to deal with them. let's be practical about this. we are in a complex, interconnected, increasingly multipolar world. that is why it is necessary to strengthen our alliances, even if it is difficult, and to strengthen the relations between the two great organizations. i hope that it will contribute to the joint declaration which is scheduled for next month at the next nato summit in brussels.
member of the commission,on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, honourable members, thank you on behalf of the commission and the high representative. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr paet, for today’s report and the light he is shining on this very important subject. in recent years, as he said, the cyber—threat landscape has changed dramatically, underlining the need for a strategic approach to cyber—threats and challenges. that includes the need to look at the defence dimension. the best way we have to face such a rapidly evolving series of challenges is to join forces and to mobilise all the resources we have. to protect our cyberspace we need better capabilities, more research, more training and exercises on how to respond to eventual attacks, and in the last few months and years i’m glad to say we have joined forces across the institutions – the european commission and member states, the external action service and the european defence agency – all in close coordination with our partners at nato. the report we are discussing today provides an excellent strategic vision and puts forward a series of very realistic recommendations. the report will help further reinforce our ongoing efforts to support member states’ capability development for cyber—defence and deterrence. cyber—defence of csdp missions and operations, cyber—defence education and training, international norms applicable to cyberspace, civil military cooperation, public—private partnerships and eu nato cyber—cooperation. we are working to build the eu’s resilience to cyber—attacks, provide for better defence capabilities and to build a credible cyber—deterrence. indeed, these were the key elements of the commission’s cyber package brought forward in september last year. in taking this work forward, we need to remember that most cyber—infrastructure is in civilian hands, so an important part of strengthening our cyber—resilience – making ourselves harder to attack – involves strengthening civil cooperation, which is why we proposed transforming enisa into an eu cybersecurity agency and developing an eu—wide certification framework for cybersecurity. we also need to send a clear message to those who wish to cause us harm, and in this regard we welcome the reference in the report to europol’s role in coordinating the law enforcement response to cyber—threats. i’d also like to draw your attention to the recent commission proposals for facilitating access to e—evidence. but we also identified the need to further invest in the development of dual use cyber—technologies and cyber—skills. earlier this year, the european defence agency, led by the high representative, set up an eu cyber—defence, education and training exercise evaluation platform. it will help advance training and educational opportunities within the member states to cover the full range of cyber—defence training. this initiative will also bring together civilian and military training needs. the eas and the european defence agency have in fact been engaged with member states for some years now to develop capabilities for cyber—defence. in march this year, they conducted a survey of the member states on their cyber—defence requirements in order to update the eu cyber—defence policy framework. that survey showed that some member states are already very advanced in terms of structures and doctrine and that all of our member states have at least minimum cyber—protection capabilities in place and are building their national cyber—defence systems. we’ve identified several areas where the eu could support these efforts further, such as investment in research and technology, providing training and education opportunities and facilitating civil—military cooperation. the funding through the european defence fund should be focused on delivering these capability priorities. some member states, as has been mentioned, have also agreed to invest together in cybersecurity through the new permanent structured cooperation on defence. member states have set up to cyber—related pesco projects. one of them focuses on the sharing of cyber—threat intelligence through a network platform with the objective to strengthen national cyber—defence capabilities, the second aims to set up cyber rapid response teams to respond together to cyber—attacks. in order to strengthen cyber—deterrence, we continue to step up eu response to malicious cyber—activities and incursive cyber—operations in the framework for a joint eu diplomatic response to malicious cyber—activities. this sets out several eu measures to prevent and respond to cyber—attacks by state and non—state actors. mr paet’s report also highlights the role of international law and cyber norms in cyberspace. in this respect, we work closely with member states to develop a strategic framework for conflict prevention and cyber—stability, promoting adherence to existing international law and implementation of cyber—norms and confidence—building measures are, and will remain, a centrepiece of our efforts. finally, we are working to deepen eu—nato cooperation on cyber—defence, including against hybrid threats. you were talking about eu—nato cooperation earlier today. we will continue to foster interoperability through coherent cyber—defence requirements and standards, to strengthen cooperation on training exercises, to harmonise training requirements and to mainstream cyber aspects into crisis management. the report also makes some recommendations on institutional reinforcement, such as developing cyber aspects further in a white book for security and defence, to invest more in cyber—defence in the next mff, to strengthen the eu intelligence and situation centre and set up a new cyber—defence council. i want to assure the rapporteur that we will consider all of these ideas very closely. further investment in cyber—defence has already been highlighted in the current discussions on the next mff. in conclusion, we’ve made considerable progress in the past few years on this range of issues connected to cyber—defence. we will continue to work to strengthen member states’ capabilities and reinforce civ—mil synergies. we will continue to strengthen deterrence by bolstering our resilience and stepping up diplomatic responses to cyber—attacks. thank you again for focusing on this issue and i look forward to our discussion.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, urmas paet, who has done some wonderful work. seamos claros, el mundo de hoy es muy diferente al de ayer, es más dinámico, tiene un ritmo acelerado. también lo son las amenazas, que son múltiples y están en constante cambio. no podemos ser ingenuos. los ciudadanos de la unión exigen que la unión les proteja; una unión que lucha por mantener un ciberespacio abierto, libre y seguro. resulta evidente que con la digitalización de nuestras economías y sociedades estamos expuestos a muchas más amenazas, y estos ataques tienen el potencial de alterar la vida cotidiana de los ciudadanos europeos, como hemos visto desgraciadamente ya en demasiadas ocasiones. fortalecer la cooperación y la coordinación en el ya denominado «quinto dominio de la guerra» —el ciberespacio— es de suma importancia. la defensa cibernética puede y debe tratarse de una forma cooperativa, puesto que su ámbito operativo no tiene fronteras, ni nacionales ni de organización, y el trabajo conjunto resuelve ineficiencias y confiere credibilidad. me enorgullece el hecho de que, durante los últimos veinticinco años, mi partido, el partido popular europeo, haya sido un líder en políticas de seguridad y defensa. me alegro de que ahora se sumen a nuestras preocupaciones las demás fuerzas políticas. agradezco el apoyo a este esfuerzo institucional viable y realista que he propuesto y que se refleja en la figura de una autoridad cibernética de la unión europea, autoridad que coordinará las operaciones, generando confianza entre los estados, sirviendo como punto de enlace entre las autoridades cibernéticas de los estados miembros y colaborando estrechamente con la otan. insisto, los ciudadanos europeos exigimos una unión que nos proteja, y este informe, que aprobaremos mañana, es una respuesta a esta demanda con propuestas reales y tangibles que contribuirán a lograr una europa más segura.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, the new communication technologies have shown their dark side, by using hackers who are able to penetrate the systems of competitors, companies or institutions to spy on or sabotage them. it has also revealed the vulnerability of users of communication and social networks to powerful intelligence companies or those who turn our data into business. as recent examples, there are cases of facebook or intelligence agencies like the nsa stealing and accumulating zero-day vulnerabilities, keeping them secret. this report does not protect vulnerable citizens, network users, from powerful corporations or intelligence agencies that steal our data for their control or their businesses. the gue/ngl group will vote against this report because it supports a single market for cybersecurity, promoting synergies between civil and military markets; because it urges member states to use the framework provided for by the permanent structured cooperation or the european defence fund; because it supports eu-nato cooperation for cyber defence; because it supports security policies and restrictions on the rights and freedoms of citizens of the member states of the european union, or because it advocates, for cyber defence, the use of some instruments of the multiannual financial framework.
madam president, while the competence for cyber defence lies with the member states, there needs to be cooperation and coordination between them all. progress through the european defence agency and the new permanent structured cooperation (pesco) should be acknowledged. however, cooperation between the partners is still far from being organised. the european structures, from europol's ec3 to the it emergency response team to the still weak enisa, lack a robust cooperation system and are in need of major improvements. the european union and nato cooperation is fundamental. shared efforts and knowledge are needed to be able to neutralize 4 000 attacks per day in 2016. a substantial enhancement of cyber defence capabilities would have an impact on the union's autonomy, which is central to the global security strategy 2016. it would also reduce the dependence on our international partners, such as the united states.
madam president, to talk about the circular economy is to talk about taking advantage of what we have, a regenerative concept that allows savings and also advances in environmental protection. therefore, the transition to a circular economy model must be an increasing priority. it is good that funds to boost the circular economy are integrated into cohesion policy, as waste management is a municipal and regional competence. this will also help to make european money better available to smes and social economy enterprises. the europe 2020 strategy has helped to advance this area by promoting smart specialisation, support for innovation and measures to protect the environment. much has been done, but much remains to be done. think, for example, of the potential of the bio-economy or green public procurement. this will lead to more money for sustainability, much better management and, thanks to the european union, our towns and cities will be able to make the transition to a circular economy model a reality. the member states must do their part. a national circular economy strategy needs to be developed to complement the european strategy with these axes: agri-food, tourism, industry and construction. because making key sectors of our economy more sustainable is investing in the future, or, which is the same thing, is leaving a better world for future generations.
mr president, one in three women in the european union has been the victim of some form of violence, and so holding this debate today, a year after the european union signed the istanbul convention, is a fundamental signal to convey the need to continue to commit ourselves and to continue to work on combating violence against women. i would like to thank mr timmermans for his very engaging speech on this, because it is true that we need many united voices in this respect. i also admit that i was surprised to hear the presidency's voice on this issue, when bulgaria is among the countries which have not yet accepted the need to ratify the istanbul convention. it's a moral obligation to do so. it is the duty of all the member states of the european union to combat violence against women, because we need legislative measures that commit us, because we need to put in place all the actions at the various levels to end the greatest social misery the world currently has. women are being killed for the mere fact of being women, and that does not deserve anyone's impassionedness. we therefore assume our obligations, we assume our commitments and we launch a struggle which must begin now with the unity of all democrats and with the unity of those who believe that a more equal europe is necessary.
mr president, mr vice-president, i would like this anniversary of the signing of the istanbul convention by the european union to be a cause for celebration, but i am afraid it is a cause for complaint. in march, mrs panayotova, the bulgarian government reversed its decision to submit the istanbul convention for ratification during the european council presidency. slovak prime minister robert fico said in february that he would refuse to ratify it. according to viktor orban, the way to defend women is to stop immigration in hungary. ten member states have not yet ratified the convention and some, such as poland, have been threatening to reverse their ratification for years. even the countries which have ratified it, such as my own country, spain, have not yet properly incorporated the provisions into their national legislation so that it becomes effective. the istanbul convention is the most comprehensive and integrated legal instrument we have adopted to combat gender-based violence against girls, women and domestic violence in a comprehensive way, but it has only been four years since it came into force. i trust that the austrian presidency will complete the commitment that the council adopted a year ago.
mr president, in spain, thanks to the feminist movement, we not only have the government with the most women in the world and in the history of europe, but the fight against gender-based violence is a social and political priority. i therefore welcome the fact that the european union signed the istanbul convention a year ago. but at the same time i regret that the ratification process is still stalled. in the face of the sexist and homophobic attacks on the convention, i ask the council and the commission: what are you doing to unblock this situation? how do you plan to counter the disinformation campaigns? is there any initiative on the table? we demand that the ratification process be successfully completed, but i would also like to remind you of something else. as this parliament has said, the convention is a necessary step, but it is not enough. to end violence against women we need a directive against gender-based violence. don't lose sight of this, please.
mr president, on this anniversary i would like to make a point: no member state of the european union can refuse to ratify the istanbul convention, at least if it believes in the values that unite us; at least if it applies the principles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union on its territory. it is time to ask whether a state which does not sign this convention can belong to the union. and it is certainly time to say that no state which aspires to join the union can do so without having first signed this convention. the most dramatic expression of inequality is gender-based violence, and the istanbul convention is the first effective international instrument to combat effectively sexist aggression, which causes more victims, deaths and injuries than terrorism. if we had kept a minute's silence in this house for each victim of gender-based violence over the last decade, we would have had to keep silent for five full days, a resounding silence that should shame all those who, on the basis of lies, seek excuses for not confronting the problem of stereotypes and domination on which gender-based attacks are based.
mr president, how important is this tool against violence against women, against patriarchal and sexist violence. welcome to the first international legal instrument covering all forms of violence against women of all ages in time of war and peace. some nine million women in europe were raped before they were 15. that's a shocking number. equally alarming is the fact that few countries in europe are treating this crime with the seriousness it deserves. we women want to go home without looking back, we want to be respected at home, at work, in life, we want our daughters to live without fear and that there are economic means, because economic violence also exists. so zero tolerance for violence, zero tolerance for those member states which have not ratified the istanbul convention and zero tolerance for the sexist members of this house, who unfortunately are very many.
in writing. one in three women in the eu has experienced some form of physical and/or sexual assault. the eu signed the istanbul convention a year ago. although all the member states have signed it, we cannot allow 11 member states to remain unratified. the istanbul convention is the most far-reaching international treaty to address violence against women as a serious violation of human rights. it is the first instrument to make the prevention and combating of gender-based violence legally binding and establishes zero tolerance for violence against women. it is surprising to hear the presidency's voice on this issue, when bulgaria is among the countries which have not yet accepted the need to ratify the istanbul convention. it is the duty of all member states to combat gender-based violence, because we need legislative measures that commit us, we must put all the actions in place at the various levels to end the greatest social scourge the world is currently facing. women are being killed for the mere fact of being women, and that does not deserve anyone's impassionedness.
in writing. one in three women in the eu has experienced some form of physical and/or sexual assault. the eu signed the istanbul convention a year ago. although all the member states have signed it, we cannot allow 11 member states to remain unratified. the istanbul convention is the most far-reaching international treaty to address violence against women as a serious violation of human rights. it is the first instrument to make the prevention and combating of gender-based violence legally binding and establishes zero tolerance for violence against women. it is surprising to hear the presidency's voice on this issue, when bulgaria is among the countries which have not yet accepted the need to ratify the istanbul convention. it is the duty of all member states to combat gender-based violence, because we need legislative measures that commit us, we must put all the actions in place at the various levels to end the greatest social scourge the world is currently facing. women are being killed for the mere fact of being women, and that does not deserve anyone's impassionedness.
in writing. one in three women in the eu has experienced some form of physical and/or sexual assault. the eu signed the istanbul convention a year ago. although all the member states have signed it, we cannot allow 11 member states to remain unratified. the istanbul convention is the most far-reaching international treaty to address violence against women as a serious violation of human rights. it is the first instrument to make the prevention and combating of gender-based violence legally binding and establishes zero tolerance for violence against women. it is surprising to hear the presidency's voice on this issue, when bulgaria is among the countries which have not yet accepted the need to ratify the istanbul convention. it is the duty of all member states to combat gender-based violence, because we need legislative measures that commit us, we must put all the actions in place at the various levels to end the greatest social scourge the world is currently facing. women are being killed for the mere fact of being women, and that does not deserve anyone's impassionedness.
in writing. one in three women in the eu has experienced some form of physical and/or sexual assault. the eu signed the istanbul convention a year ago. although all the member states have signed it, we cannot allow 11 member states to remain unratified. the istanbul convention is the most far-reaching international treaty to address violence against women as a serious violation of human rights. it is the first instrument to make the prevention and combating of gender-based violence legally binding and establishes zero tolerance for violence against women. it is surprising to hear the presidency's voice on this issue, when bulgaria is among the countries which have not yet accepted the need to ratify the istanbul convention. it is the duty of all member states to combat gender-based violence, because we need legislative measures that commit us, we must put all the actions in place at the various levels to end the greatest social scourge the world is currently facing. women are being killed for the mere fact of being women, and that does not deserve anyone's impassionedness.
mr president, mr prime minister, i appreciate, as do many colleagues, a huge contradiction in your speech, because we share this worrying geopolitical and geoeconomic scenario about europe. there are a huge number of challenges in defence, in the digital agenda, in migration. everyone is putting enormous challenges on the table, including you, but you say that the budget of the european union must be reduced. you say that, with the uk leaving, we have to cut the budget and we do not have to give one euro more from the states that can do so. this is an absolute contradiction. in my view, you have to tell us whether you believe that it is credible, that it is plausible, that it is possible to meet the challenge of europe's future with all these great challenges without a budget and without a greater financial contribution. and my specific question is: do you believe in the european union's own resources? do you think it is possible for the european union to establish its own resources to finance the future of the union?
mr. president, thank you, prime minister, for being with us today. as this is a debate on the future of europe, i shall refer to young people. we all know the advantage of the erasmus programme, but i think it is also necessary for young people to study in depth the background, objectives and functioning of the institutions of the european union, that very difficult to define 'camelopard' to which you referred a minute ago. i therefore welcome the recent adoption by the council of the commission's recommendation on the promotion of european subjects in european schools. i think this european subject is very appropriate and i hope that the member states will soon implement it. secondly, i would like to stress a serious problem which affects the whole of europe today: the low birth rate and, consequently, a future with fewer young people. i would like, or i would have liked, that in the multiannual financial framework this demographic decline which is already affecting europe as a whole had been more present when funds were distributed between the regions. in her country the birth rate is already low, at 1.66 per woman, although it is still higher than in other countries. i'd like to know your assessment of these facts.
mr president, prime minister rutte, we got your message: focus on added value and what the european union can do best by acting together. that is the case with external borders, migration and refugees. so, you take the floor in the next european summit and state three principles. number one: the situation of the aquarius is not only immoral, it’s against humanitarian law and european law. it’s about time that the council fingers point not at those who act like the new government in spain but at those who do not act. number two: the question cannot be externalised and the answer cannot be simply repressive. it has to be holistic and preventive. and number three: it’s got to be political. no country can be left alone; not malta, or spain, or italy can be left alone. the question is political. you quoted winston churchill by saying that politics is about foretelling the future and explaining eventually why it didn’t happen. but the best churchill quote is that politics is first and foremost about action, and no action at all is the worst failure for the european union.
mr president, a true circular economy requires systemic change, so we should ask ourselves whether a true circular economy is possible within this trade policy of the european union and the free trade agreements. we believe that it is not, because a closed-loop economy must be structured precisely around short circuits, and this economy must also be diverse, not over-specialised or productivist. solidarity, feminist or ecological economies have proposals and practices that are very useful for this systemic change towards the circular economy, but they also imply political changes. there is no circular economy without sharing of wealth, without real democratization. to talk about circular economy is to talk about energy and food sovereignty, social equity and people's health; it is to talk about transformative municipalism; to recover the lessons of the rural world, in which nothing was wasted; it is to reconnect the countryside and the city; it is to talk about local consumption. it is, in short, about building a much more habitable europe together.
mr president, i support this report because the subject of cyberattacks is fundamentally new. our defense forces have not yet been prepared for such attacks and we must work with this problem. in particular, from russia, as some of my colleagues have mentioned here, we can expect cyber attacks to increase rather than decrease in the future, and if the eu is not prepared for this, then these attacks could hit us hard. i am convinced, and it has already been said here, that we need to work with nato on this issue, that cyberattacks must be one of nato's key priorities, and that we should coordinate with nato as our partner in this regard as much as possible. nato should come up with a concrete plan and concrete ways to respond to cyber attacks.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on the independence of the judiciary in poland (2018/2761 ((rsp)). let me first of all inform the honourable members that neither the 'catch the eye' procedure nor the 'blue card' procedure will apply to this debate.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it is not the first time the council has been asked to intervene in this house on the situation in poland. this shows again that the protection and promotion of rule of law – including its core element, the independence of the judiciary – is a constant endeavour. it requires unwavering attention and efforts across different policy areas. common values, such as human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights, are the cornerstone of the european union. each member state must therefore respect, protect and promote them. the bulgarian presidency, and indeed all of us, agree that the protection of the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights in our union cannot be taken for granted. the commission triggered, on 20 december 2017, the procedure foreseen by article 7(1) of the treaty on european union. this procedure is designed to assess if there is a clear risk of serious breach by poland of the values referred to in article 2 of the treaty. the council is regularly updated on the outcome of the dialogue between poland and the european commission. the dialogue is ongoing, and the final assessment has not yet been presented. the issue is on the agenda of the upcoming general affairs council meeting on 26 june. at this stage, i cannot prejudge and draw conclusions as regards the next step. the presidency has acted, and will continue to act, as an honest broker considering all circumstances and positions. let me conclude by saying that the issues raised in the debate go to the heart of our commitment to this union. we therefore trust that all sides will act responsibly and constructively to reach an outcome that leaves no doubt about our core values.
(first vice-president of the commission). – mr president, i will have to ask your indulgence because i cannot deliver my message in five minutes, because i want to give parliament exactly the same information that i have given to council. so might it take a bit longer, and i do apologise for that. the last time we discussed the issue was on 12 february, and i thank the parliament for the wide support for the commission’s actions expressed in the resolution adopted on 1 march. let me now give you an update on the current situation and developments which took place during the last months. first, a number of exchanges between the commission and the polish authorities took place at different levels. in particular, i travelled to warsaw on 9 april, where i met the polish authorities and members of the judiciary. on 3 may, i met with foreign minister czaputowicz in brussels. this meeting was followed by further technical exchanges on the new amendments by the polish parliament. on 16 may, president juncker met with prime minister morawiecki at the informal leader’s meeting in sofia. now what about the concrete measures taken by the polish authorities? three laws were adopted in april amending the law on the supreme court, the law on ordinary courts organisation and the law on the national council for the judiciary. a fourth law was adopted by the same on 10 may. i welcome the change of the law, which provides now for a uniform retirement age for female and male judges, now fixed at 65. also, the amendment on the assistant judges goes in the right direction. i also welcome the fact that there has been a willingness on the side of the polish authorities to amend the laws on a number of other issues. however, i regret to inform you that, overall, and despite all of these legislative changes, key concerns which the commission identified in the reasoned proposal remain unaddressed. i can summarise the situation as follows. first, despite the new amendments, the discretionary power given to the authorities in charge of deciding on the prolongation of the judicial mandates of supreme court judges and of ordinary court judges remains a key concern from the point of view of upholding the principles of the separation of powers and judicial independence. the current judges still have no right to serve their full term as originally established. judges affected by the lowered retirement age cannot simply notify their intention to continue to adjudicate, together with a health certificate, and continue to work. the president of the republic has wide discretion to decide on the prolongation of supreme court judges’ mandates. there are no specific criteria and there is no judicial review of his decision. whilst the transfer of the power to decide on the prolongation of ordinary courts judges to the national council for the judiciary is a step in the right direction, this is undermined by the politicisation of the national council for the judiciary. in addition, there is a very wide discretion, and again – sadly – no judicial review. second, the risk of creating irreparable damage fully remains. on 3 july, 27 out of 72 supreme court judges will face the risk of being forced to retire. as you may know, the current supreme court judges were asked to declare their intention to remain in the court by 4 may. 13 judges reacted in one way or another to the new prolongation regime. some judges submitted a formal declaration requesting prolongation of their mandate, whilst other judges made a general statement that they are fit and ready to continue to occupy their posts without making a formal declaration requesting prolongation, due to the unconstitutionality of such a procedure and its humiliating character. in its opinion, the supreme court explicitly stated that the lack of declarations of the other 14 judges cannot be identified with the lack of their will to further adjudicate. the situation of the first president of the supreme court is also very worrying. she is affected by the new lowered retirement age, and her mandate of a six-year term of office would be prematurely terminated two years early, despite the fact that it is the polish constitution itself which sets the period of her term of office. a forced retirement of these supreme court judges would constitute an irreversible violation of the rule of law. the commission is at present examining this issue. third, the reforms brought forward have only served to underline the crucial role of the new national council for the judiciary, yet there has been no corresponding increase in the judicial influence over the election regime of the judges’ members of the council, so it still does not comply with european standards. also, no remedy is foreseen to address the premature termination of the mandates of the former judges’ members established in the constitution. the politicisation of this body that has occurred undermines its role as an effective safeguard of judicial independence. fourth, i would like to recall that the new legislation offers no solution for those judges who have already been concretely affected by the reform measures contested by the commission. i am referring to the court presidents dismissed by the minister of justice. i am referring to ordinary court judges already forced to retire by the lowering of the retirement age, including female judges subject to the provisions that are in violation of eu anti-discrimination law – and by the way, now they have announced they will change that: no misunderstanding on that. i am also referring to judges’ members of the former national council for the judiciary whose constitutional mandate was prematurely terminated. fifth, recent changes do not eliminate the broadness of the criteria governing extraordinary appeal. they remain almost the same. in particular, they still refer to social justice, albeit in a different wording. the venice commission explicitly criticised such references. also, the 20-year reach of the extraordinary appeal has not been eliminated, which means that the extraordinary appeal could result in the repeal of final judgments dating back to october 1997. a new condition was introduced, which aims at avoiding the extraordinary appeal resulting in the repeal of judgments infringing international obligations. this condition lacks real impact, as such repeal is nevertheless possible if justified by principles or rights established in the polish constitution. this could even justify, for example, the repeal of final judgments by polish courts applying eu law as interpreted by the case law of the court of justice of the eu. sixth, also other key issues underlined in the recent proposal and the fourth rule-of-law recommendation have not been addressed. as to the disciplinary regime, new provisions render it in practice highly possible for current supreme court judges to participate from the start as judges in the disciplinary chamber. the three constitutional tribunal judgments of 2016 remained to be published as such, without any additional qualifications about their legality from the legislative or executive powers. they have been published now, but with a disclaimer that they are, and i quote: ‘findings delivered in breach of law’. no legislative changes were made to address the concerns expressed in the recent proposal in order to restore the independence and legitimacy of the constitutional tribunal. sadly, the commission can only conclude that the four new laws adopted in april and may are not by themselves sufficient to remove the existing concerns and are not sufficient to eliminate the clear risk of a serious breach of the rule of law. the measures the polish authorities have continued to implement over the past six months have already created damage and are continuing to do so. after the constitutional tribunal and the national council for the judiciary, it is now the polish supreme court which is at risk of coming under political control. last week, the commission therefore asked the council to organise a formal hearing of poland in the context of the article 7(1) teu procedure. finding a solution urgently is a matter of common interest for all member states and all eu institutions. it is the commission’s sincere hope that poland will now urgently address the key concerns identified by us. in particular, it is indispensable that urgent action be taken by the polish government to address the situation of the supreme court judges before 3 july, because that is when the decisions about the retirements become final. i will travel to moscow on monday to continue the dialogue with the polish government in an attempt to find solutions for the issues i’ve just outlined. (interjection from the floor, off mic: ‘you said moscow’ and other comments off mic, to which timmermans reacts by saying: ‘that is an incredible mistake – that has never happened to me before. i do apologise. sir, if you knew anything of my personal history, you would not have made that remark.) as i said, i will travel to warsaw on monday to talk to the polish government. you know the commission is the guardian of the treaties. that is our role. but we do this in a cooperative sphere. i continue to believe that it is through dialogue that we need to solve these problems. but i also continue to believe that dialogue needs to lead to concrete results so that we can remove the threat to the rule of law and restore the independence of the judiciary.
mr. lewandowski, i'm sorry to interrupt you, but since there are those who insist on interrupting you this afternoon, i'm warning you: respect the speaking shifts. do not interrupt.
let me say that there have been two requests to speak, one recently, a 'blue card' and another request for 'catch the eye', but we said at the beginning of the debate that neither the incidental request for the use of the floor nor the 'blue card' procedure will be applied at this stage. i say this so that you will know the reasons why i am not allowed to speak. this is not a matter for debate.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. this is a decision which parliament takes at the appropriate time and you will not break it, as you will understand. it is not going to impose its minority on the decisions of the majority. the debate is over. we're moving on.
(first vice-president of the commission). – mr president, part of democracy is letting other people speak when they have the floor. the polish people decided to join the european union. the polish government signed the treaty on european union, it was ratified by the polish parliament, elected by the polish people, and that treaty comes with rights and obligations. (applause) one of the obligations in the treaty on european union, described in article 2, is to respect the values of the european union and fundamental rights. one of these elements is the rule of law, and the rule of law cannot exist if you do not have a separation of powers and an independent judiciary. (applause)this is not an obligation that has been thrust from the outside on the polish people and polish nation. this is an obligation that the polish nation went into with their eyes open after a popular vote – i think there was a referendum, if i’m not mistaken – and this obligation was taken upon the shoulders of the polish people and government and they execute that obligation. the fact of the matter is that the commission is the guardian of the treaties, and if we believe that there is a problem with member states executing their obligations, we have to speak up. the world championships will start tomorrow – you cannot play a game of football without a referee to make sure that the rules are applied. if the referee is ignored or doesn’t apply the rules, you can no longer play football – the game will not happen – and that is the same with the european union. we are a rule of law— and treaty-based organisation and we demand respect for the rule of law by all members of that organisation. that is not imposing – that is doing what was agreed and what was voted for, etc. (applause) in that context, the european commission absolutely does not dispute the right of the polish government to reform the judiciary, and there might be very good arguments to reform the judiciary if it is slow, for instance, or if it is not delivering the results people expect from it. but in reforming the judiciary, you still need to respect the independence of the judiciary. if you believe that through putting the judiciary under political control, you can make it a better judiciary, you are wrong and you are violating your own obligations under the eu treaties, and that is the core element of our discussion with the polish government. let me be clear: we do not dispute the right of the polish government to reform its judiciary, but in doing so, it should not infringe upon the independence of the courts, upon the independence of the judiciary. i put before you today our very concrete concerns. i’ve been very specific – that is why it took me some time, and that is probably also why i made that mistake. but when we do this, we do this in good faith. we want to have this dialogue – that is why i am travelling on monday to warsaw. that is, in my opinion, very important because i hope we can find a solution. it is true what you have said, sir, that with the new prime minister, a new era started – because this prime minister is willing to at least talk to us and discuss with us and look for ways out. but where i do not agree with you, sir – this is not horse trading. we are not talking about ‘you give a bit here’ and then ‘you give a bit there’ – we’re talking about the independence of the judiciary and the rule of law, and the commission is just trying to maintain standards and wants to help poland avoid a systemic risk to the rule of law. that is our duty, i am bound to that duty, i will do my utmost, and – frankly – i have been trying for two and half years. you can’t fault the commission for not trying to find a way out through dialogue. i’ve listened very carefully to parliament today, i’ve taken careful note of your remarks, i will also inform the prime minister when i seen him on monday of your remarks, and i hope we can then find a solution together, but if we cannot find a solution, the commission will have to stand firm on these issues. once again, it is not an imposition from the outside – it’s just holding a member state to the agreement they entered into in freedom and ratified in freedom in their parliament. pacta sunt servanda – this applies to all of us. (applause)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, let me assure you once again that the presidency and the council as a whole attach great importance to upholding the rule of law and the separation of powers. they are at the heart of our principles and values. we believe that the dialogue should continue and we very much hope for a positive outcome. as i mentioned during my intervention, the issue will be on the agenda of the general affairs council on 26 june. i am not in a position to state more at this stage, because i speak as presidency of the council and therefore in the name of all its member states. the council will continue to follow this debate closely, and personally i can assure you that i paid particular attention to the views expressed here today during this debate.
the debate is closed. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, you will remember that before mr salvini used human suffering to win some votes, mr renzi's government had already asked for help in managing migration. italy asked for help and no one gave help to italy. that's the truth. greece is receiving a large number of migrants. spain is receiving a large number of migrants. and the member states cannot leave italy, spain, malta and greece to manage migration, which must be common. and it should be, firstly, because people cannot be allowed to suffer in this way and because, furthermore, allowing people to suffer only fuels the worst fuel, fuels populism, xenophobia and racism. and because the solution is european and we know it. all the time that the council is wasting is being wasted by all of us, by all of us who sit here with a certain amount of responsibility. the action of the spanish government, which is an intelligent, solidary, humane and, by the way, legal action, unlike that of mr salvini. that action must serve as a deterrent for the council to react. you react! the president told you, my colleagues told you. at the very least, they should approve the dublin package once and for all, listen to this parliament, resolve a situation which is only benefiting those who are against the european project. we're letting people suffer. we are not solving the migration problem and we are feeding the anti-europeans, xenophobes and racists. that's the result, then something you have to move.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i want to thank you for your words, because they are entirely what i think too and what common sense and knowledge of the situation means. the tragedy of the aquarius is not an italian problem, a french criticism or a spanish solution: it is an integral problem of the european union. nor is the solution that has been reached with libya a false one, and i would like us to think about something: our relationship with the phantom government of fayez al-sarrach has the consequence that all the immigrants leaving libya leave the coasts dominated by fayez al-sarrach. crete is much closer to libya than pantelleria. no one leaves the territory of the tobruk government, led by khalifa haftar. it's worth thinking about and moving from idealism to reality. we must establish an african solution with local, national, tribal, religious authorities in africa, because what is happening in the mediterranean is not a rescue problem either, it is the last link in a tragedy that begins in africa. and therefore, if we are not able to establish a solution at the source in africa, all we will do is a humanitarian task, i would say to relieve our consciences - our aesthetic consciences - when we are eating and we find, at lunchtime, some dead on the beaches of greece or in the waters of the western or central mediterranean. and that, quite simply, seems to me a philanthropic approach, rather i would say aesthetic, but not profound, which is what we need. we need collaboration in africa, we need comprehensive action in africa and we need real european responsibility.
mr president, commissioner, this week we have seen how the new xenophobic government of italy, in defiance of international law, closed its ports to the aquarius and its 629 passengers rescued from the sea. and we have seen how the new spanish government offered to take them in. it is a noble gesture, no doubt, but we all know that gestures will not solve the underlying problem. the burden of the migration and refugee crisis is on the countries of the south. we need a fair and generous european refugee policy, effective in its mechanisms and equitable between countries, which shows that the union respects the values on which it is founded. this house must put pressure on the council to stop blocking the reform of the dublin regulation. push him with every legal means at his disposal. and i say to all, all, including those provided for in the treaties, because thousands of lives are at stake and europe's honour is at stake. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i have no intention of going against the rules. what i'm rating is the actions of the italian government. that's what i mean. it is a government which has spoken out on behalf of its president, and the minister of the interior has spoken out with clear xenophobic expressions. that is what i have been trying to say, and i do not want to break the rules of procedure in any way.
mr president, no member state is here to lecture any other, after the massive catastrophe that is this refugee crisis. not one. but there are things to be said: a country in the european union cannot violate international law. and what the italian government has done is to violate international law and maritime law. and yes, mr salvini's statements are xenophobic. i don't know if anyone's going to sanction us for telling the truth, but this is the truth. that said, why is salvini in power? because, obviously - and i agree - italy has been left alone, because it is the policy of the european union that has fostered these types of characters. and not all of italy is salvini. of course we know. i am proud of the mayor of de magistris, in naples, who has raised his voice these days, saying: 'naples does want to welcome you'. and so we know that not all italy is salvini, of course it is. and we know that there have been many governments that have been unsolidarist. the previous spanish government was very much, and more so, and that is why we are very pleased that the present spanish government has taken a totally correct and solidary measure which we welcome, because for many years in spain, the cities have also been alone in calling for this issue. barcelona, in three years: 11 000 refugees assisted, in the face of the complete indifference of the spanish government. so we also know in spain what it is like to have a government that is totally indifferent and opposed to the policies of reception. but the question to be asked here is: should we condemn the things that the italian government is doing, in contravention of international law? i certainly do. but there are more aquariuses coming. and when more come, what will we do? are we going to keep this up? it is therefore very important to tell the european council at the end of june to unblock the dublin reform, to put in place safe routes of entry, to end the shielding of borders and, above all, to put in place a rescue policy in the mediterranean.
mr president, 629 people fleeing poverty and war, to which the european union is contributing, will arrive at the port of valencia for humanitarian reasons. but it doesn't end here. let's think about it. how is it possible that for so many years, thousands of people have been dying in the mediterranean, and we have not made any progress on asylum? how long will we tolerate the council's deplorable behaviour? how can the european union condone the constant violations of international law? does anyone think these people are the last to live through this ordeal? migration flows are and will remain a constant in our global world. if we allow international law to be violated with impunity, if our policy is to close the borders, to open the ices, the european union will again be delegitimized and will open the door for xenophobia and fascism - yes, fascism - to continue to spread. history, of course, is not going to forgive us.
mr president, first of all i would like to applaud the gesture of the cities of change and the spanish government. but if we do nothing, the illegal blockade of the aquarius by the ultra-right-wing italian minister of the interior may become the norm, a form of action that violates international law and, in turn, criminalizes ngos. let's not be hypocrites. the case of the aquarius shows that it is essential to open up legal and safe routes to europe, including by removing the concertina fences and preventing returns in the heat of the moment. we must reverse the xenophobic policies of the fortress europe, by introducing new policies based on justice, solidarity and cooperation, which form a new common immigration policy; a policy that will stop the rise of the extreme right wing of the salvinis and le pen, that will break the trap that seeks to force us to choose between neoliberalism and xenophobia. we cannot substitute rights for rights.
mr president, i am proud that spain yesterday and today continues to save lives. as an andalusian, i am well aware of the tragedy of the immigrants who risk their lives to reach our shores. in 2017 alone, our navy, our civil guard and our maritime rescue rescued thousands of migrants at sea. the refugees of the aquarius arriving safely in harbor is always a relief. but a timely measure is not the only solution awaited by the citizens, who know that without a strategy for the future, this is bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. and immigrants will once again be at the mercy of traffickers. the responsibility lies with europe: neither spain nor any other country should take up this challenge alone. i therefore call on the commission and the council to adopt the new dublin regulation as a matter of urgency, with clear rules, but above all with compliance. the borders of italy, greece and spain are those of the whole of europe, and countries which do not want to do so must be forced to look south. because another failure in immigration policy would sink the european project in the mediterranean and give the populists wings. in this human drama no one can sing victory. it would be petty to use immigrants for short-term political gain. let us leave the signs of victory for when we get the ship of immigration policy, which is now stuck, to sail again. and let us work with less focus, more effectively, for a freer and safer europe and for the relaunching of the ... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker).
mr president, on behalf of this house i would first like to thank all the cities of refuge in spain which are taking in migrants and refugees, especially valencia and its mayor, joan ribó, who is going to take in the aquarius. of course, valencia, barcelona, madrid, the basque country and navarre have been setting an example for years. i also welcome the decision of the spanish government to take the aquarius. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome. but, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, council, we need much more. all the states, starting with italy, have to comply with their european obligations, with european law, with international law. at the same time, no state can tackle migration management alone. the spanish, italian or greek borders are european borders. in coordination with the member states, the union must take over rescues with more funds and more powers and, above all, adopt a just reform of the dublin regulation now. and i hope the spanish government will continue to do the right thing. i ask you to withdraw the hot returns and the blades in ceuta and melilla. solidarity with refugees and between european countries is fundamental to saving lives and restoring dignity to our continent.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen of the council, ladies and gentlemen of the commission, are you not able to sense the exasperation of this european parliament, expressed in all the languages of the union, with this debate - and there are hundreds of them - which exposes europe's ineffectiveness and failure in the face of migration? the spanish government has taken a humanitarian decision in relation to the aquarius and it is a symbol that makes a difference, a symbol of political change, but also of how much political will can change things. and the willingness to say, as we expect from the council at the next european summit on migration, that there is no place in europe for member state governments which violate international humanitarian law and european law by closing their doors to desperate people like the aquarius. secondly, there is no solution which can be based on the externalization and mere repression of the problem; a policy must be adopted - as this european parliament has called for - which is holistic, comprehensive and preventive, increasing humanitarian aid and commitment to the desperate. but thirdly, we must change european legislation, unblock dublin and this will ... (the president withdraws the speaker)
mr president, this is not a debate about italy or this or that state. this is a debate on the european response to the humanitarian tragedy in the mediterranean. but the problem is that there is no european response. the problem is that the states still fail to recognise that in order to meet the challenge of managing migration of refugees, we must share responsibilities, we must act in a spirit of solidarity, we must make progress in reforming the dublin system and not deal with this situation in a selfish or individual way. let us not be deceived, ladies and gentlemen, the aquarius is only a symptom of a reality as harsh as it is unacceptable. the mediterranean is the most unequal and deadliest border in the world. we can train the coast guard. we may have a less deadly sea, but not less uneven, and this is the reason why we will still have aquarius.
mr. president, look at this ship. it's a paper ship, a paper ship facing the ocean liner of the european fortress. how come the council of ministers hasn't been convened in the face of what's happening? we are outraged. and our society, which we represent in this parliament - which, by the way, is empty today; which, by the way, and i insist, is not even 10% of the parliament here today - is dehumanized in a debate like this. don't throw the ball at each other. there is no debate between the council and the commission and parliament, while the mediterranean is a graveyard of the dead. because this is gonna keep happening. this has been a precedent of selfishness. this has been a precedent of fascist policies. and, moreover, we do not need to arm the borders with european coastguards, but we need to put resources and put the european economy to work to prevent the causes that cause migrants to come here. we must be in solidarity because europe has been an immigrant. and above all, the wreck of the europa, the wreck of the transatlantic, in front of the dignity of these people who come to save their lives.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, i have already expressed my rejection of this proposal for proportionality from the outset, and the reasons are very clear: the member states are the only ones competent to regulate vocational and training systems, so to give the commission any power to be part of this process means breaking with the principle of subsidiarity. in addition, there are sensitive professions, such as those related to health, which should not be included in this test. in addition, there is already a control on the proportionality of regulations, and this is carried out ex post by the court of justice of the european union, with the advantage that it does so for each specific case, for each rule that is believed to violate the principle of proportionality. moreover, the criteria in parliament's proposal are drawn precisely from the judgments of the court. the idea of a common test is therefore problematic in terms of competences at all levels. that is why it was rejected by the employment committee.
mr president, i also thank the rapporteur and the alternative rapporteur, mr sergio cofferati, for the great work they have done on this directive. it is true that we are receiving more and more complaints, especially from young workers who have been trained, who have learned languages to improve their employability, taking advantage of the advantages of the single market and the advantages offered by being in the european union, and it is true that they often find, after this long training process, bureaucratic barriers to being able to access these jobs in countries other than their own. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. but it is also true that certain professions, especially health care, already have a special status in the directive on professional qualifications which allows them to move about without losing any of the security they have to guarantee to citizens in the exercise of those professions. and it is true that we are asking for the health professions to be excluded from the proportionality test, which we have not achieved, but we have succeeded in obtaining, in the framework of the trilogue negotiations, a text for a transaction which can improve this intermediate point whereby, by giving greater security to citizens, we also improve the employability of all workers in the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, since the cotonou agreement was adopted in 2000, and even since its revisions in 2005 and 2010, the world has changed quite a bit. new actors have emerged in a certain global disorder and it is certain that now, as we review our next stage, we must bear in mind three fundamental objectives. firstly, we must strengthen the political dialogue. many of the actors in the acp group are now relevant in the multipolar world, and the european union shares strategic objectives with them in this world order. secondly, to contribute to the economic development of many of these countries, most of which are in a state of poverty and need investment, need capacity to offer opportunities to their citizens. thirdly, to cooperate with them in the pursuit of the sustainable development goals. together we are more than half the united nations and together we can make progress, reducing poverty and, if we do, we will have made a lot of progress in the world as a whole. we are certainly calling for greater parliamentary control in the implementation of the new cotonou agreement; we want to maintain the structure of the acp but at the same time give prominence to regional integration within its field; we want to increase accountability and there are two fundamental points i want to mention. the most important thing is that we cannot make cooperation with these countries conditional on them meeting our demands on migration policies. we have to fight poverty, and that means not conditional on our aid. the second element is, of course, respect for human rights and making them the focus of our cooperation.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, the european union is going to renew the cotonou agreement. this agreement governs our relations with some 80 countries in africa, the caribbean and the pacific, including some of the poorest countries in the world. cotonou is a very large agreement, but after almost twenty years it has not reversed the situation of extreme vulnerability of these countries to the globalized economy; rather africa is still condemned to be a mere supplier of natural resources. industry remains undeveloped despite its wealth of natural resources, inequality continues to increase, food security is a pipe dream and violations of human rights and the environment by our european companies continue to occur with total impunity. the new agreement must therefore address some principles that ensure the necessary coherence between fair trade relations and the right to development. we must put the agreement in the context of the 2030 agenda and the paris agreement on climate change. we must integrate the gender perspective in a transversal way, end the unsustainable exploitation of natural resources, develop the transparency directives for our companies, which must pay taxes where they are due and be responsible for all their actions abroad. we must encourage small industry and family farming, which is what feeds the world, and we must not make our aid conditional on our own interests. we have a precious challenge ahead of us - and i have already completed it - to make the european union a true exporter of human rights, especially in those regions where we have been fighting for centuries. on that path, you will find the support of my group.
madam president, commissioner, the european union's relationship with the african, caribbean and pacific community is certainly the most strategic, long-standing and experienced relationship the european union has ever had. four lomé conventions and the cotonou agreement of 2000, revised in 2005 and 2010, are more than enough experience to learn from and draw the consequences. i want to emphasize the strengthening of political cooperation, institutional training to strengthen the judiciary, guaranteeing the separation of powers and guaranteeing human rights and also the fight against corruption and, of course, the parliamentary dimension, because that is what the european union and african, caribbean and pacific parliamentary assembly is about, precisely to strengthen the accountability, the accountability, and the responsibility of countries in their political practices. but i would also like to point out that it is not acceptable to link this strengthening of cooperation to the migration issue, much less to make it conditional on the return policy. this is simply out of the question.
mr president, commissioner, if the objective of eradicating poverty in the acp countries is sincere, then a new framework of relations is needed to put an end to the present situation where the european union imposes totally unequal agreements which allow it to continue to plunder its wealth, its natural resources and its fisheries banks and to continue to monopolize land and also its agricultural markets. i believe that the agreements between the european union and the acp countries have not contributed to the development of these countries because they perpetuate the situation of poverty and misery, because they seek only cheap raw materials, low labour costs and lax environmental regulations and open, yes, the borders so that multinational corporations can trade these products with reduced or zero tariffs. a new framework for relations is urgently needed which is genuinely geared to development, to the eradication of poverty and which is based on the sovereignty and respect of these peoples.
mr president, commissioner, the fight for equality is never complete, because neither is the fight against discrimination, although that is a permanent pillar of the european union and, of course, crucial for this european parliament. that is why we are right to discuss the operation of national strategies for the inclusion of the roma population, because that is exactly what the resolutions of this parliament demand. but i think this debate loses its focus if we look at countries by country, those where there is a greater history of integration of the roma population, those where it is more entrenched, as may be the case in spain, or those countries where the balance is more poor. because what really matters is to target the most vulnerable population - women, children - for education, employment, housing, access to health, access to education and equal opportunities. but something we can and must do is to exclude from this european parliament the language of hatred and discrimination against the roma which we have heard so many times, laden with energetic hatred in this european parliament, because that is absolutely intolerable. that is a mandate we can fulfill: to be vigilant and absolutely uncompromising with the language of hatred and discrimination against the roma population in this european parliament. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
blue-card answer. – thank you for your question, my respected colleague, ms járóka. ever since the great recession got started, we socialists have fought all along the way against the recessive austerity and in favour of a european budget in order to fight social exclusion. inequality is on the rise and of course that goes precisely to those segments of the european social fabric which have been the victims of a long, protracted discrimination in history – the roma community, of course, but not only them. let me say that making up the budget is not only a matter in this house for a single european political group and that of course i do favour an increase in those particular chapters of the social european budget. the second thing i wanted to say to you is that, in the current dispensation of the european budget, there is 20% for social inclusion, including in the european social fund. and that is an absolute must when it comes to the integration of the roma population in europe.
mr president, despite the efforts of the european union and the member states, there is still a strong discrimination against the roma community which hinders their integration and participation in society, especially in the case of roma women. the commission has taken a step forward by recognising the social and economic integration of excluded communities such as the roma as one of the specific objectives of the european social fund plus, with its subsequent financial support. we must therefore recognize the fight against anti-gypsyism as a european priority and support the member states in developing, implementing and monitoring policies to eradicate it. it is true - and it has been said here - that improvements can be made in many areas, particularly in education, employment, health and housing. however, i think that the priority we must give is to education and training. firstly, by ensuring that they are in school and, secondly, by preventing school drop-outs, thereby improving their job prospects and their integration and participation in society. finally, i would like to stress that it is important that measures are not generic but that they are specifically targeted at the roma community, with the active participation of the specialised ngos and roma organisations themselves. in spain it works very well, and i think we have to continue along this line.
mr president, i think this debate on this oral question from the committee on petitions is a great opportunity. i believe that improving language learning is an obligation and, although other colleagues have mentioned that it is indeed a matter for the states, i believe that more can be done from the european union, from the council and from the commission. we are the largest common political space with the largest number of languages. we have countries like russia or the united states with practically one language. i mean, therefore, we are a large political space with a large number of languages, and that is a shared value. so we must take action. i found the council's proposals interesting, as did those announced by the commission. i come from a country - spain - with one official language but three more official languages on its territory, and i think that's a wealth. these initiatives must be pursued and the powers of the member states must be generous with the fact that the european union is favouring the use and learning of these languages.
mr president, speaking of languages, i want to give my support to the interpreters in the 24 booths of this european chamber in claiming their right to strike and, speaking of languages, to explain that there are no big languages or small languages, there are living languages or dead languages. multilingualism, the recognition of language skills is very important. we have just adopted a european citizens' initiative on minority languages. i would also like to call attention to the need to support minority languages, mother tongues, languages like my own, galician, which is losing speakers, especially among children. the european commission and the council must not forget the co-official languages of many european peoples.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, corruption costs us europeans a huge percentage of gdp throughout the year and it is true that if this oral question has been put, it is also because we have not had a very courageous commission on this issue. as my colleagues have said, the preparation of the biannual report on corruption has been suspended; neither is it participating in the council of europe's group on the fight against corruption, nor has an assessment been carried out on compliance with the requirements of the united nations convention against corruption, and, in addition, for example, in the recommendations of the european semester this issue appears very timidly. the paradigmatic case has occurred in spain, where a government has just fallen because of a very serious case of corruption, and a few days earlier the country-specific recommendations had been published, in which this issue was only briefly mentioned. we have been obsessed for years with labour market reform, with pension reform, and the most serious issue about the functioning of the rule of law in spain, which was corruption, hardly deserved a brief mention. i think we need to change that and take this problem more seriously.
madam president, in the eurobarometer survey of october 2017, the perception of two thirds of european citizens was that their country was absolutely corrupt, that corruption was widespread. if we add to this the murders of investigative journalists and the difficulties that the judiciary encounters every day because of more sophisticated crimes and the slowness and lack of resources it has, this leads to impunity and cynicism, which also provide a fertile ground for a breakdown of confidence, for the rise of populism and radical reaction, which of course targets our political parties, politicians at all levels, officials, private companies; in short, what is the basis of the rule of law and our democracy. however, we know that there is a civil society absolutely committed to fighting corruption: journalists, police, judges and prosecutors, and also officials and governments at all levels who fight day by day; and therefore - for the risks, but also for the hope - we need that report that the commission promised us here in 2011, so that we can do that monitoring of observatory, of trends, as we do on human rights within the union annually; so that, precisely to fight against impunity and cynicism prevailing in society, which is less and less believed that we are able to give a solution to this corruption that generates not only economic losses but above all great damage to our democracy, we hope, mr commissioner, and the whole commission, that you give us the opportunity every two years for at least a parliamentary debate, here, on the report that you promised us and that you have not given us, because it is the only means of democratic monitoring. and we don't want any other alternative, chief. the commission has committed itself and we want that report and we want it now, and any other derivative will be suspect and unacceptable to us.
madam president, corruption is still a disease in many member states. we have just seen the spanish government fall because of massive corruption in the governing party, the partido popular. spain had its worst rating in transparency international’s latest corruption perception index, coming in at 42nd place out of 176 countries. similar perceptions can be found in other member states’ public opinions. against this background, the eu should take a more ambitious role in rooting out corruption in all forms and everywhere. however, the commission has failed to move forward on this over the last four years. we need continuity in the eu anti-corruption report. the european semester recommendations do not go into details. zero corruption across the european union must be our goal. we need strict controls from institutions and we need our citizens to make governments accountable.
madam president, the problem of corruption has a clearly european dimension. this was recognised by the commission in 2011, and the figures showing the impact of this lacquer exceed the annual budget of the union. it is difficult to continue to think that corruption can be treated as a matter outside the real economy. the commission's lax approach to its responsibilities in this area is therefore inexplicable. when's the second report on corruption? i would like to ask you to stop talking about the european semester. it has already shown itself clearly insufficient. the fight against corruption should be a public policy of the union, a commitment to the democratic principles we claim to defend and which should help to reduce the growing distrust of politics. the crocodile tears of a part of the establishment against the rise of so-called populisms is an exercise in intolerable hypocrisy. unfortunately, i come from a country where the corrupt and the corrupt have considered the state as a booty at their disposal. spain - as has already been said - has the worst scores ever recorded in the corruption perceptions index. and in the last greco report my country only partially met seven of the eleven recommendations of this international body to combat corruption. in both cases, an unacceptable ranking, but sadly it is not the only country in europe to drop out abruptly. we know the immense damage that this private colonization of the public does to democracy, not just to the economy. a part of the political class has been protected by laws, by some judges, by some media and by economic powers in their criminal use of public resources. however, whistleblowers have never been sufficiently protected. at this point, the question in this house is about the importance we want to give to the fight against corruption and what we can say is that the commission is far below the requirements of the moment.
madam president, corruption not only robs citizens of important resources, it also undermines trust, erodes democracy and institutions. it is important to mobilize and find resources to fight corruption, identify it and punish it. we understand, as the commissioner has said, that transparency and accountability are fundamental tools in the fight against corruption, as well as the establishment of fair trials, dissuasive sentences and protection of whistleblowers. in its latest report, the council of europe group of states against corruption says that not only has there been no progress, but we have had setbacks. the case of my country has been mentioned here, where, incidentally, a minister in the new government resigned yesterday after only five days in office. however, this group and this report by the group of states against corruption say that significant progress has been made in my country in the legal and criminal field of the fight against corruption, through the law dealing with the economic and financial aspects of political parties, the law establishing the status of high office, the reform of the penal code or the comprehensive law on the fight against corruption and the protection of informants. in this connection, mr commissioner, we encourage you to involve the commission in the work of this group of the council of europe, we also encourage you to present the report that the commission has been making and we understand that the commission's job is also to present initiatives, to raise and highlight the shortcomings that exist and, at the same time, to promote recommendations aimed at fighting this scourge and this scourge which is corruption.
madam president, mr commissioner, in the 2009-2014 term i had the honour of chairing the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. the treaty of lisbon entered into force. and from that committee we urged commissioner malmström at the time to put in place a strategy against corruption, but also a report to be debated here every two years. not in force since 2011. and the reasons have only grown. there is the criminal basis of article 83 of the treaty of lisbon, which is the one that determines that there is a serious transnational crime, corruption, in which this parliament is a legislator. second, the stratospheric volume. the budget of the european union is important, but it needs a map, because in each country there are specific forms of corruption which must also be combated with specific instruments. but finally, and most importantly, because it has a political impact, because there is a dissatisfaction and unease in european society. it has established that, for the first time in spain, a motion of censure based on the anti-corruption campaign has been successful. it changes the political map. so, commissioner, put the european union at the head of the european group against corruption, greco, and of the implementation of the united nations convention against corruption.
madam president, corruption is the b-side of the lack of democracy. do you know who mr. rajoy was? he's in the gürtel case papers on the people's party corruption. by the way, only one of your deputies is here today - you can see what they are interested in corruption - and i am referring to the spanish popular party. it was the president, who has fallen by a motion of no confidence. it was not necessary to know what the gürtel case ruling said to know that the pp was corrupt in spain. and the european commission was looking the other way. in 2017, the spanish state got the worst result in the transparency international corruption perception index and, these days, we know that a member of the royal family is also going to jail. 1,700 cases, 500 defendants and only 20 in jail. and what about the use of european funds, commissioner? the commission already warned in 2014, 2015 and 2016 that public procurement processes had an over-cost of eur 13 billion. we need more european control, but also to protect whistleblowers from corruption. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
blue card question. what is it? madam president, mrs miranda, i find the statements you have made here regrettable. i think that bringing the affairs of our country and airing them in the european parliament does not dignify the debates in this house. there is a committee of inquiry in the congress of deputies, another in the senate and the courts of our country do their job. here we could put the fan policy and transfer other cases of corruption that have occurred in the country. i think your attitude, mrs miranda, clearly shows a sectarian manipulation of the institutions.
the answer is 'blue card'. look, any european matter relating to corruption can be brought to this house. we are representatives of our peoples and therefore, if the citizens of our peoples are concerned about corruption, they can bring it up. and you are not an example of anything, you are not a figurehead of anything, you are the shame of europe. so, to bring an issue of this calibre here, because it is the right thing to do, because it is the concern in the cis barometer of spanish citizens and, therefore, i - who represent the galician people, but also many spanish citizens who have voted for us in the rest of the state - i have the obligation to bring it here.
madam president, some, like mrs miranda, come here and fill their mouths with talk of the corruption of others. could you explain to us, mrs miranda, the melide case - the case of your party, the galician nationalist bloc - where a mayoress from your party was involved in corruption, a shameful case in your region, which is not a country, galicia, but your political party, mrs miranda. you don't care about that, you look at the corruption of others. look inside yourself to talk about others, don't fill yourself... to speak of the people's party, of the people's party government, which has been exemplary, you have to wash your mouth, mrs miranda.
author. mr president, the rohingya are one of the most persecuted and until recently one of the most forgotten minorities. it's been a genocide that has put them back on the map. we have all heard the figures: 900 000 people - more than half a million of them children - fled from torture, arbitrary detention, the burning of entire villages. we know that the myanmar army raped women as part of the expulsion strategy and that, nine months later, 48,000 of these women are waiting to give birth in bangladesh in totally unsanitary conditions. the united nations and myanmar signed another memorandum for the voluntary return of the rohingya under conditions: recognition of citizenship and an end to violence. unfortunately, these conditions are far from being met, because the expulsion of the rohingya from their territory is not only a response to a religious or ethnic conflict, but above all to big business that nobody talks about. it is the army that has control over land management and is, at the same time, responsible for the genocide of the rohingya and their displacement. the land law and the foreign investment law are allowing the massive entry of transnational capital, promoting extractivism, agro-industry and water grabbing precisely in rohingya territory. between 2010 and 2013, more than one million hectares of land inhabited by rohingya were granted to agro-industrial projects of multinationals. on the lands from which they were displaced, on their burned houses, military bases are now being built to control the territory. the international community must ensure that its investments never cover human rights violations or serve to entrench a system that systematically discriminates against the rohingya population and further reduces the chances of return. because if we do not take decisive action to ensure an end to violence, access to justice and return and measures to prevent a recurrence, we will be indirectly complicit in these crimes against humanity. it's time to act.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, this is the fourth resolution we have tabled here on the plight of the rohingya and i hope it is the last, although i fear it will not be because the violation of the human rights of the most persecuted minority in the world does not stop. the aim is to carry out ethnic cleansing through killing and displacement of those who are hated by a good part of the myanmar population, supported by the military and a government that turns its back on the rohingya people. 900 000 innocent people, of whom more than half a million are children, have had to flee to bangladesh for their lives. sexual violence and rape are used against women and girls as a weapon of war. girls and women are trafficked into refugee camps, where they are forced into prostitution. the situation of children is tragic, and i hope that the agreement between the united nations and myanmar will be respected and that the government will allow the displaced to return safely. the european union must play a leading role in the investigation and prosecution of crimes against humanity committed against this defenseless people.
mr president, commissioner, you know that in every plenary session of the european parliament we spend time discussing urgent matters relating to massive and flagrant violations of human rights, which are of such importance to the european parliament because they should be of importance to the european union. and for the third time in a row, the question of the rohingya, a community of 1 100 000 people, of whom 650 000 have been forcibly displaced in recent times, half of them vulnerable women and children, crowded into overcrowded camps, in dramatic conditions which have been explained in all the languages of the union, has returned to this parliament. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what counts here is the resolution we are going to adopt immediately, which binds the commission and calls on the commission to strengthen its commitment to human rights in its relations with myanmar and bangladesh, in particular to serve this extremely vulnerable population, which is being persecuted because of its membership of a religious community, one of the most binding and most prohibited grounds under international humanitarian law: being discriminated against because of their membership of a community.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs grossetête, on her outstanding work and the commissioner, mrs bieńkowska, because she has also done a great job and has helped this parliament a great deal to see this project through. from the point of view of the committee on budgets, i think it is a great success, because 40% of the funds will come from fresh money, from the margins of the budget, so that there will be no need to cut - as was the case in the first project - either the galileo programme or the copernicus programme or the connecting europe facility. if europe is of age, it must be able to defend itself. last weekend, donald trump, our main ally, said that europe is as bad as china, but smaller: we would do very badly to let our security depend exactly on donald trump. that is precisely why - and knowing that nato is there, and with all due respect, and without prejudice to nato - we begin to imagine that perhaps, one day, we will have to defend ourselves. let us lay the first brick so that this europe has the capacity to defend the european way of life.
member of the commission. – madam president, i wish to thank the rapporteur, ms zoană, and the shadow rapporteurs for their very constructive approach to the proposal, and their support during the process. following fruitful cooperation between the three eu institutions, i believe we have reached our common objective. the commission welcomes the agreement reached on this important regulation on integrated farm statistics. we are discussing today the re-ordering of the collection of data for structural farm statistics, since the common agricultural policy is one of our oldest policies and the first european service on the structure of agricultural holdings dates back to 1966. this is one of our oldest data-collection arrangements. with each new iteration we improve its relevance for the changing economy and for our policy priorities. this proposal will ensure the availability of the data that only farmers can provide for planning and monitoring the common agricultural policy, as well as for climate change, environmental and other important european union policies. information from the farmer that we do not need – such as geolocation or whether the farm is, for instance, in a mountainous area – will not be asked for. comparable and flexible, modernised european agricultural statistics of high quality are also important for a fair single market and sustainable growth and, in general, for a better understanding of our rapidly changing world. i want to thank you for having recognised the need for this flexibility and made sure it remained in the final compromise text. this will ensure that data collection keeps pace with the evolution of the cap, taking into account, too, the recent commission proposals. because, as you all know, data collection is an investment that pays for itself many times over. knowledge is the base for good policymaking. that is why i particularly welcome the addition of information on young farmers. this will help us understand the intergenerational dynamics, and the interests and the needs of the new generation that we need so much in this sector. not having these data, or having them only in an inflexible form, would in the end be much more expensive. that is why i believe that this final agreement on integrated farms statistics is a success for each institution, and that, first and foremost, it will be of great benefit to europe’s farmers and rural communities today and tomorrow, and to our member states.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, it is true that at first sight we might think that farm statistics are a mere technical document, but the fact is that their significance is vital if we are to make effective use of the financial resources at our disposal. good data collection is essential to analyse the real impact of the common agricultural policy and to tackle more precisely the problems of our farmers and livestock farmers. the agreement adopted in this dossier respects the mandate of parliament and achieves a good balance between the administrative burdens borne by the national managers and eurostat, for which greater flexibility is provided. i therefore stress the importance of adopting this decision as soon as possible. the agreement should have been concluded under the latvian presidency, but we had to wait until the bulgarian presidency to be able to finalise it. however, this delay will not prevent three countries that want to bring forward the agricultural census planned for 2020 by one year - portugal, greece and spain - from doing so in order to coincide with their population censuses, which will allow them to reduce their expenditure.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, i thank you all and especially the rapporteur, mr assis, for his report. we share your concerns. the human rights situation of indigenous people is extremely precarious in many countries and we see a rapid rise in the incidence of land grabbing, with increasing violence against indigenous rights and environmental defenders. therefore, in 2017, we stepped up our support for indigenous peoples, and for human rights defenders working on land, environment, biodiversity and climate, through the european union human rights defenders mechanism. we also share the concern over the multiple discrimination suffered by persons with disabilities and by women. the joint staff working document on indigenous peoples by the european external action service and the commission, of october 2016, reflects the action we are taking to address these concerns. the may 2017 council conclusions on indigenous peoples touch on and match the policy positions expressed in the assis report. these conclusions also confirm the european union’s support for the un declaration on the rights of indigenous peoples, as well as the outcome of the 2014 world conference on indigenous peoples. in relation to land grabbing, let me assure you that the european union attaches vital importance to land governance and secure access to, and tenure of, land. the eu is supporting land governance in about 40 countries, with a total budget of eur 240 million. in this regard, let me give the example of our programme in colombia that was also important to the peace process there. thanks to european union support, 280 000 hectares were awarded through collective title, benefiting some 8 000 indigenous and afro-colombian families living in the neighbourhood of protected areas of national parks. we also recently concluded an agreement with honduras which promotes the rights of indigenous and afro-honduran peoples on issues such as land tenure and titling, and we are hoping to conclude soon an agreement with guyana that seeks to raise guarantees for improved protection of amerindian peoples and the land rights of forest-dependent local communities. the assis report calls for the updating of the eu land policy guidelines from 2004, which the commission is already considering. implementing the principles of sustainable and responsible governance of land is key to stopping land grabbing, but we believe, too, that full implementation of the un guiding principles on business and human rights is relevant in this context. we will also further reflect on the call for the commission to launch an eu action plan on responsible business conduct. mr president, honourable members, allow me now briefly to touch on other recommendations in the report. the report addresses the issue of the training of delegation staff on the rights of indigenous peoples. in fact, the rights of indigenous peoples is a subject that features regularly in the human rights training programmes we provide annually to our staff but we also know more is needed, so we will certainly make efforts to enhance such training opportunities. the report also attaches importance to ensuring dialogues and consultations with indigenous peoples, at both national and regional level, as the may 2017 council conclusions note too. against that background, we are constantly working to enhance and explore ways of consulting and engaging with indigenous peoples more effectively. such engagement could include discussions on the idea expressed in the report of establishing a complaints mechanism for indigenous peoples who have been affected adversely by eu action and cooperation. we firmly believe that the main challenge ahead of us lies in the implementation of the wealth of existing international and eu-level policy and legal frameworks, and it is in this light that we concur with the report on the urgency of ensuring consistency in all eu policies and actions pertaining to or affecting indigenous peoples. we would also very much welcome the european parliament’s appointment of a standing rapporteur on indigenous peoples’ rights. should this be realised, we will stand ready to cooperate with and support the mandate holder. mr president, honourable members, thank you once again for a very rich report and for your attention. i look forward to our discussion.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. mr president, we have recently nominated a finalist for the sakharov prize here in the european parliament, lolita chávez. for the first time, a woman, a human rights and environmental activist, and above all, an indigenous woman. it was a step in the right direction, and this report is also a step forward. it is time to recognize the multiple rights violations that the indigenous poor are suffering from: land grabbing of course, severe impacts of climate change and also the abuses of big corporations including european ones. and, in particular, women are often the ones on the front line: they are often harassed, extorted and one in three - i repeat: one in three - has been raped at some point in her life. and this violence - often unpunished, unfortunately - is all too often carried out by public officials or, also, where extractive industries or agribusiness operate on indigenous lands. we in the european union cannot allow that. no, we can't allow that. our companies, our products, our investments cannot have the slightest connection with the human and environmental rights violations of indigenous peoples. neither lolita chavez nor any other person was born to be harassed, extorted or murdered.
mr president, the indigenous leader lolita chavez was nominated for the sakharov prize and still today she continues to face fear. two years ago, the defender berta cáceres was murdered. it is said with affection that berta did not die, that she multiplied. however, in 2017 alone there have been 312 berta cáceres. 312 indigenous women defenders and leaders murdered. and the lack of protection and the violation of rights is even greater in the case of being a woman. this report on the violation of the rights of indigenous peoples is very much needed, but it is not enough. we cannot make such a statement with the left hand and continue with the right hand with trade and investment treaties which enable european transnational corporations to violate rights and take advantage of the instability they themselves generate to grab land, promote mining, deforest and kill, in the end. the architecture of impunity cannot be allowed to continue. it is imperative that we do not waste time and the european commission should be fully involved in the legally binding international instrument of the united nations.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, within a few months we will be dealing again in this parliament with the issue of forced marriages, a practice which, it should be remembered, also exists in the european union and the united states. as we have already said on more than one occasion, the protection of minors is enshrined in our treaties and our foreign policy must strictly follow these rules. we call once again for consistency, for the effective implementation of international rules and agreements, such as the istanbul convention and the un agenda 2030, and for our development policies in third countries and trade policies to converge towards respect for human rights, especially those of women, girls and children. we shall therefore vote in favour of this report. we are in favour of the abolition of child marriage here too, in the european union, and everywhere in the world, because these are practices which are forms of slavery which still persist in this world. in this way we will also be complying with article 37 of the istanbul convention. zero tolerance, commissioner, for any kind of imposition of a patriarchal culture.
madam president, knowing that child early and forced marriages, despite being a clear violation of human rights, are still ingrained in some cultures and traditions, the european union’s external strategy against them should have as central points education and cooperation with communities. involving and educating community leaders, especially women, is fundamental in changing attitudes and behaviour concerning child marriages. education plays an essential role in order to foster social change and empower women and girls so that they can escape from discrimination and from decisions which they do not take and so they can fulfil their potential. increasing the number of women in decision-making positions can help promote prevention and eradication policies for combating all kinds of violence against women, including forced and child marriages. however, we should not forget that the role of men is key in addressing gender stereotypes. therefore, fighting against child and forced marriages involves fighting against patriarchal societies.
in writing. europe will not be built on the basis of weak values which, under the guise of respect for cultural and religious diversity, accommodate harmful traditions which damage human dignity and are a serious obstacle to development. through its external strategy against early and forced marriage, the union reaffirms its commitment to universal values, while recognising that the mere legal prohibition of forced marriage does not in itself guarantee an end to these practices, due to the complexity of the social, political, ecological and economic factors involved. i would like to stress that, although these practices disproportionately affect girls worldwide, boys are also victims, as the report acknowledges: to date, 750 million girls and 156 million boys have been married before the age of 18, while 250 million girls and 25 million boys were married before the age of 15. child marriage is contrary to the declarations on the rights of the child, the istanbul convention to combat violence against women, and european traditions that safeguard the free consent of spouses. the union must affirm respect for this value within and beyond its borders.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, let me begin by congratulating the co-rapporteurs, mr lietz and mr leinen, for their excellent work and their cooperation on this important issue, particularly as we look in the months ahead towards cop24 in katowice. the commission fully shares parliament’s view that addressing climate change is a collective responsibility at global level and requires a continuing shared commitment to multilateralism. today, more than ever, europe stands by the principles of a rules-based order, with the paris agreement as a cornerstone of an indispensable multilateral system. for europe, dealing with climate change is not only a matter of political responsibility and multilateral engagement but also a matter of security, prevention of conflict, and stability around the world. those principles were reaffirmed during the second edition of the ministerial on climate action, co-hosted by the european union, together with china and canada, in brussels on 20 and 21 june. ministers confirmed that the paris agreement is irreversible and it is not to be renegotiated, stressing the importance of multilateralism. they reiterated their commitment to concluding the negotiations on the paris agreement work programme. in addition, on 22 june, high representative and commission vice-president mogherini hosted an important event on climate, peace and security, at which, as a european union leader, she was both congratulated and further called upon by international leaders. the european external action service and the commission are committed to deploying maximum political and diplomatic efforts to integrate action on climate, security and development, enhancing the european union’s already strong, proactive voice on the global stage. as acknowledged in your report, 2018 is a crucial year for international climate action. the european union is taking an active role in the talanoa dialogue. the recent ‘eu for talanoa’ conference gathered some 550 participants, with widespread agreement that concluding on the paris work programme at cop24 will be an important stepping stone towards delivering the paris agreement commitments. talanoa is also the theme of the european union climate diplomacy weeks in 2018 and presents an opportunity for the union to showcase its model for low-emissions transition in a way that empowers more ambitious engagement from state and non-state players in order to help our partner countries implement the paris agreement. in this context, the european union recently launched a strategic partnership for the implementation of the paris agreement. this is but one of the several initiatives on climate change that the union is carrying out in various regions of the world through its sustainable development and cooperation instruments. a number of those initiatives, such as the global climate-change alliances, help address trans-boundary climate-related issues through dialogue and negotiation, thus supporting the climate diplomacy objectives. the report also rightly acknowledges that climate diplomacy plays a vital role in global security. climate security has become one of the most important parts of our climate diplomacy, and the need to strengthen our efforts, to avoid climate change becoming a serious threat multiplier, is widely understood in our partner countries. the commission welcomes the recognition in the report that effective climate diplomacy requires leadership at home as well as action at international level. the european union is continuing to lead by example, by forging ahead with implementation of our nationally determined contributions (ndcs). we all reached a political agreement on the key pillars of the 23rd climate and energy framework and this will allow the european union to reach beyond our, at least 40%, emission-reduction contribution under the paris agreement. the european union is committed to continuing its efforts. as a next step, the commission will put forward a vision for the european union long-term greenhouse emissions reduction strategy by november 2018. it will provide a clear vision of how to have a truly decarbonised european economy and will give a clear direction of travel, to ensure we have the right investments in place. the european union and its member states also continue to contribute their fair share to climate finance, remaining the largest donor of public climate finance by population: eur 20.2 billion to climate action in developing countries in 2016. during this year’s climate diplomacy weeks, the european union’s delegations around the world will, together with member states’ embassies, be communicating their success stories. they will be showcasing the european union’s strong track record in domestic implementation through effective climate policies. the european union will, through strength and cooperation, build strong partnerships and provide continuous support to the poorest and most vulnerable. president, honourable members, let me conclude by thanking parliament once again for this comprehensive report and for your strong support for european climate action. i look forward to continuing to work with you in the months ahead as we approach cop24.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, commissioner, the debate we are having today is more important than it may seem and i would therefore like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs and also the other committees involved for their work. the fight against climate change, which the european union has been leading since before the great agreement of cop21, is impossible to achieve if we are not able to involve everyone - and you know this well, commissioner, who was just talking about multilateralism. it will be of little use for europe to have a strategy to combat plastic waste if we are not able to explain its need and force the co-responsibility of the rest of the global actors. we must be key players in the fight against climate change, as i say, and we must also be able to understand that this will not be a fight we win alone, but with the international community at all levels, because it is a problem that affects us all. there will be no country in the world that will not be affected by climate change and no one will solve it alone, neither the most developed nor the least, but we must also be aware that the damage of climate change will affect more people in countries that do not have the means at their disposal to mitigate the effects of climate change. we have been in the process of negotiating a new agreement with the marshall islands for a number of years. but above all, he told us that in countries like his, with an average height of two meters above sea level, there is nowhere to hide. for thousands of people, tackling climate change is the difference between living, running or dying.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, thank you, mr leinen, for this report, which calls for the european union to take a global lead in achieving the paris agreement. i want to emphasize two ideas. the main point is that all the external policies of the european union should include climate issues in their agenda and have economic and human backing. mr arias cañete has mentioned this, but i would also like to stress the need to take account of the fact that there are particularly vulnerable areas, such as the south of the european continent. and i would like to take up the example of the prima project, funded by horizon 2020, which is promoting research and innovation in the mediterranean basin, in southern europe, with northern africa. initiatives such as this must also be emulated in horizon europe, which will thus see its commitment to climate change strengthened. i therefore welcome this own-initiative report and hope that climate diplomacy will be reflected in all european union policies, and especially in the support and introduction of technological advances to combat climate change.
in writing. although denied by some members of this and other forums, the evidence of climate change is overwhelming, with anomalies becoming more frequent and harmful. 40% of the world's population lives in coastal areas, at risk of losing their homes and their livelihoods. a rise of 1.5°c in global temperature would bring about unprecedented changes. in extreme cases, some states will be swallowed by the sea or cyclones like the marshall islands. the fight against climate change is a global task. human activity affects us equally and this fight must be equal and solidarity. climate diplomacy should therefore be used to put compliance with the climate agreement ahead of any other eu trade agreement with third countries, in particular to avoid giving non-signatories or non-compliants an advantage in trade relations. in this sense, it is not necessary to go to the pacific to implement climate diplomacy, as many member states will fall short of the 2020 emission reduction and renewable targets, and our poorer baltic neighbours, even within the energy union, plan to burn lignite without any internalisation of the co2 emitted. let's apply it here, too.
madam president, i thank the rapporteur, mr freund, for his efforts in this report. i hope that i can vote in favour of it if the difficulties which the text currently poses to my group are solved. the european union needs to work with the united nations and wants to be a global player, because the united nations is a key player in global governance. many of today's challenges are global; regional solutions are insufficient. i think of climate change, of terrorism, of the management of migration flows... the latter is a serious challenge to which the european union has not yet found adequate solutions. it is essential, first of all, to cooperate with the countries of the southern mediterranean and with the african countries and, secondly, to contribute actively to economic and social change in africa, whose population is constantly increasing. otherwise, the problem will be insoluble in the medium term. i hope that the meeting in marrakesh in december will be an encouragement to successfully conclude the global pact currently being negotiated in the united nations. peace and security are also an essential objective of the united nations. we are very close to the conflicts in libya and syria and also to the serious problems in the sahel. as we have sadly lived these days, europe cannot escape its geography. again, cooperation with the united nations and regional bodies, especially the african union, is essential. i'm finished. this year marks the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights, which has given the united nations an important ethical dimension. much work is still needed to achieve universal respect for fundamental freedoms, one of the hallmarks of the european union.
mr president, this is the map of the transeuropean transport priority network proposed by the commission (the speaker shows a map). the balance between the atlantic corridor and the mediterranean corridor is completely off. more than 1,300 kilometres have been added to the atlantic corridor in spain. zero, to the mediterranean corridor. neither the commission nor the previous spanish government, of the people's party, has given priority to the mediterranean rail networks, isolating the port of valencia, which is the main port in spain, concentrates more than 40% of traffic and is the first container port in the mediterranean. i therefore ask the commission, first, to explain the reasons and technical criteria used for not including the madrid-valencia axis in the atlantic-mediterranean corridor linking lisbon with madrid and valencia, and the zaragoza-sagunto axis in the cantabrian-mediterranean corridor, which would allow the departure via the cantabrian coast of all the products that enter the port of valencia daily from the rest of europe. and secondly, i ask the commission to accept the amendments which i am going to table in this parliament to correct this situation.
mr president, our union is made up of an amalgam of national and linguistic entities which reflect our cultural and socio-political richness. from this reality, building an identity, a european citizenship, is only possible by recognising the other, assuming that he is not unequal: he is only different. that is why our diversity is a value and why imposing a 3% ceiling on participation in the distribution of seats resulting from the european elections breaks these principles. many europeanist political forces - like my party, the basque nationalist party - which represent european national minorities, which govern in very significant territories of the union, do not reach that percentage of the vote at the state level. trying to exclude these 'institutional and political realities' denies diversity, weakens democracy, distances europe from the people and will not help solve territorial problems 'which are a european issue, as is catalonia' because the states, unable to integrate their own diversity, scrap the european project. the electoral reform which seeks to impose this exclusion, disunites and denies this diversity.
mr president, today oriol junqueras, former member of this parliament, and joaquim forn, interior minister of the government of catalonia, have served eight months in prison, two hundred and forty-two days unjustly deprived of their liberty. they are two of the nine catalan political prisoners who have been kidnapped for months and are far from their homes and families. today we also learned that the transfer of these prisoners to prisons in catalonia is imminent. transfer is a right. what would be fair is that our political prisoners are free, be with their families, in their homes. and it would also be fair that one day those who have abused the figure of pretrial detention and those who have twisted the law should have to give an explanation for what they are doing. the prisoners will not be a bargaining chip, because their freedom remains to be resolved and the effective right of our country to self-determination remains to be resolved.
mr president, yesterday, july 1st, there was an election in mexico. andrés manuel lópez obrador was elected president with a large majority. as a member of the european parliament with a special interest in mexico, i am very pleased to have been elected, but the new president has a huge task ahead of him: to fight poverty, to abolish corruption and to put an end to drug trafficking, which, with the connivance of all levels of the state and almost complete impunity, has caused, particularly since 2006, more than 37 000 disappearances, torture, kidnappings and 240 000 deaths. the recent homeland security act has only made things worse, because it has meant the total militarization of the state's struggle. the law must be repealed; the creation of a specific prosecutor's office and the creation of a truth commission are urgently needed. and i hope that the renewal of the global agreement between the european union and mexico will incorporate these advances in a democratic clause for the defence of human rights that is really effective. congratulations to the mexicans, good luck and luck. my most sincere sympathy to you.
madam president, to start with, i would like to welcome the chancellor. i’m not going to refer to your motto because there were so many mentions of the motto of the austrian presidency that there is no need now. i want to refer to the two major priorities, which are migration and digitalisation. both of them are absolutely big issues which require a joint solution. on the migration aspect, i want to insist on the aspects of the idea of a joint solution. but to reach a joint solution we need to have long-term thinking, and this is something lacking on that issue. there are normally just short-term solutions, which are absolutely necessary since there’s a number of problems that must be solved: humanitarianism is necessary, based on working solutions, but you we don’t have long-term solutions. if we don’t approach countries of origins and don’t address sustainable development by converting sustainable development from a mantra into real projects, we are not going to succeed. this requires a great deal of leadership, vision and there is a possibility for the austrian presidency and for you yourself to greatly contribute in that direction. i must say, failure is not written in the stars. success depends on human decisions, and the actions must be the right ones. so here is the opportunity. please don’t miss it. we are looking forward to see what is going to happen.
madam president, we have had an interesting debate, but when we are talking about protecting europe, about more ambition for europe, what we have to do is to be aware that we cannot do more with less resources. that is why the financial perspective under discussion - the multiannual financial framework - is a good opportunity to focus on protecting europe more, to make the necessary policies and to tackle the new challenges we face, such as the fight against climate change, immigration, the technology industry and the common european defence. those are big challenges to protect people, workers and our borders, and to address our challenges. but that's not done with dwindling resources. that is why, mr prime minister, i invite you to join those countries which want to make a greater effort to build a greater europe with more resources to enable us to meet the new challenges.
mr president, a point of order because, as you know, four members of this house - from the gue/ngl group, the socialist group and the greens/efa group - are now on board the open arms rescue boat. the ship is also carrying 60 people rescued from the high seas, lives saved by their work. but now the ship is running short of fuel and food because the italian and maltese authorities have not allowed refueling at their ports. at the same time, another hundred people and three babies have drowned in the mediterranean because they were not allowed to act. i ask you, mr president, to direct the italian and maltese authorities to open their ports immediately. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's citizens are not exposed to the dangers of the drugs trade.
mr president, 500 million, 500 million euros is the amount the european union plans to spend on producing weapons. when there is supposedly no money available to finance social policies, suddenly there are, almost magically, or by magic, hundreds of millions of public money to give away to the military industrial complex. and they do so even in breach of the european union's own treaties, which prohibit the european budget from being used for military expenditure. but of course, you have decorated it with beautiful words: innovation, technology, even excellence, but what we are talking about is smart missiles, drones, bombs, and dead, after all. the creation of the european defence industrial development programme is leading to a further militarisation of the european union. in short, under the false pretext of increasing our security, we are adding fuel to the fire, enriching the arms industry and exporting arms to conflict zones. ladies and gentlemen, we do not need more weapons, but more firm commitment to peace.
mr president, volkswagen, iberdrola, gas natural fenosa and abengoa, all companies of the european union, have been accused of violating human and environmental rights in latin america. and this is not my opinion, it is that of coris, a consultant who has produced a report for the european commission itself. mining, hydroelectric power, monocultures of palm trees and other species, or mega-tourism are new forms of colonialism, with which the european union is complicit. but let's not look down on indigenous people, because they are the light of this world, because their ideas and their wisdom are the wall that is daily hit by neoliberalism, the same neoliberalism that attacks our rights here in the west. that is why europe must go beyond mere recommendations. we must demand respect for human rights as an indispensable condition for all trade agreements negotiated in the world. only then will we make humanity win. it's the only way to preserve life on this planet.
mr president, we believe that the most important aspect of this report is the reference to the gender perspective in climate diplomacy, especially the mention of indigenous and farming women, because they have a very close relationship with the land, they have specific knowledge of natural resources and they are leaders in family and organic farming. their knowledge base must therefore be enhanced in the fight against climate change. while members of this house debate climate change clauses in free trade agreements, there are millions of people out there shouting at us that there is a structural contradiction between capital accumulation in fewer and fewer hands and the sustainability of life. we must also reduce the power of the energy lobbies and the multinationals which often decide and speak for many of our governments. the european union may be wearing a very nice green suit, but as long as we do not change the neoliberal road map, we will be complicit in all the aggressions on our planet.
madam president, the spanish socialist government was preparing a media reception for the aquarius fleet with 600 people on board. the civil guard rescued more than a thousand people from the sea, twice as many, without any mayors or televisions to receive them. at this moment the open arms is heading for the port of barcelona with sixty immigrants on board. and also the tv cameras and politicians are waiting for them on their arrival. in fact, several meps are travelling on the boat. very media. but in the meantime, since the beginning of the year, the civil guard has rescued more than 7,500 people at sea, and no mep accompanied them on the boats, of course. and on the spanish coast alone more than 300 human beings have drowned at sea and, obviously, no mayor was waiting for them in the harbour. on the one hand, we have turned the worst humanitarian drama of our time into a television and political spectacle, and on the other hand, we have turned a blind eye to the thousands and thousands of drowning. our thing, taken as a whole, is called cynicism. we have too much talk and selfishness and lack responsibility and heart. it is cynical to call a crisis of immigrants a crisis that is one of poverty, of ignorance, of religious persecution, of climate change, of disease, of oblivion, of femicide, but not of people. europe's problem is solved in africa. to think that it can be easily fixed by bribes, humanitarian flotillas or patting on the back is not to see the truth or not to want to see it. we can close ports, we can build detention centres across the continent or, on the contrary, we can remove external borders and let everyone in. in the medium term, it's all going to be useless. if we don't help africa change africa, desperation will continue to drive millions of women, men and children to the sea. if i were african, i'd be an immigrant. and i would be with my children, and all of you would be with me. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. mr gonzález pons, you are speaking about cynicism. i am speaking out of shame, because when it comes to the need for a european policy on immigration, there are those who prefer to spend their time criticising a government which has been an example of solidarity within the european union. do you know why the refugee quota policy in the european union has failed? because irresponsible governments, like mr rajoy's, have not fulfilled their obligations. when we had to take in more than 36 000 refugees in spain, mr rajoy's government did not even meet 20% of that commitment. that is the crisis of european immigration and asylum policy. that's it. so stop talking about cynicism and acknowledge what your government's policy has been.
the answer is 'blue card'. it is a pity that my speech was in spanish, because you did not understand anything. i have not said that the socialist government is cynical, it has applied it. i recommend you listen to the video in your own language, in valladolid, and understand what i said. it is cynical that in the european union, on the one hand, a media spectacle is organised when a ship is rescued and, on the other, one looks the other way when millions of people are drowning at sea. i said that, taken together, is cynical. you have understood what you wanted to understand because i do not know whether i have explained myself well in spanish or whether you understand spanish well.
madam president, mr tusk, this council has been a disaster. the reform of the euro area has been completely blocked and on immigration and asylum the far right has been given over to the demagogy of the far right, a far right which is increasingly influential in the council among other things because the popular europeans have decided to open the doors to some governments. and what are the conclusions? well, it's just that the right of asylum is beginning to die with the landing platforms in the southern mediterranean - which are, by all accounts, illegal - or even with the mention of new centres. but what is the point of building new centres if there is no reception policy, if dublin is not reformed? new centers for these people to go to? it's a real mess. that's the question you guys don't answer. and then - you yourself have mentioned this - the message in the conclusions to the ngos that they should please let the libyan coastguard do its job, when it is the libyan coastguard that systematically violates human rights. that you say that and that in the conclusions the dead in the mediterranean do not deserve a single line is a real shame, mr tusk. this council has been a real aberration.
madam president, we have witnessed with indignation and shame a new chapter in the moral degradation of the european union. a european council that trades in human beings to save mrs merkel's government. a european council to the greater glory of the xenophobic policy headed by the fascist salvini. criminal policies that are directly responsible for turning the mediterranean sea into a mass grave for those fleeing war or poverty. this agreement does not provide for legal or safe channels and it deepens the externalization of borders, opening up the possibility of setting up real concentration camps in third countries, such as our ices, places of impunity and violation of human rights. it also delves into collaboration with pirate forces, such as the libyan border guard, while dismantling rescue schemes or seeking to criminalize ngos that are complying with international legality, the law of the sea or the least human decency. it is not just humanitarian gestures that are worthwhile, because if we do not, we will be witnessing the end of any decent project, buried between political selfishness and tolerance of fascism and racism.
madam president, in this age of post-truths and lies, let's say five truths. mr president of the european council, mr tusk: first, we are not being invaded by an avalanche of immigrants and refugees. other members have already said that we are at the lowest figures in recent years. second, europe urgently needs migrants because we are getting older, because we need them to pay our pensions and support our welfare state. and we all know it - you know it, we know it, business people know it, governments know it. thirdly, the european union needs to give a common response, and you have had a common response on the table for months, but you have not given one. fourthly, the council's conclusions are disappointing. despite the efforts of some governments, such as the spanish government, which have put on the table a humane, europeanist and decent treatment of migrants, the council's conclusions are nevertheless extremely disappointing. and the worst truth of all is that there are some who are willing to trade lives for votes because, although we are at the lowest numbers of immigrants in the last five years, june of this year has been the deadliest month of all in the mediterranean. we are not responding adequately; we are not succeeding in stopping the flows, because the flows are born of despair; and we are fuelling the most xenophobic and racist debate in the european union. listen to governments which are prepared to pursue a humane policy, such as the spanish government, no matter what mr gonzález pons says.
mr president, mr tusk, commissioner, the council conclusions of june 2018 make way for a presidency that announces itself with the slogan 'a europe that protects', but not to protect the real europeans but to protect the member states from an alleged flood of foreign immigrants and asylum seekers in a policy of fear that exploits fear, hatred and anger and that feeds the conservative far-right spiral, exactly the same one that blocks the dublin regulation, which imposes a security bias instead of a humanitarian one on the policy of the area of freedom, security and justice and which externalises the management of external borders, in addition to denying solidarity and shared responsibility for migration flows, which is exactly the mandate of the treaty of lisbon, that is, of european common law and international humanitarian law. the opposite of what we should be doing at a time when the flow of immigrants has fallen dramatically and yet the exploitation of fear of immigrants is growing as a new form of unacceptable and immoral speculation.
in writing. in this age of post-truths and lies, we must speak with truths. first, we are not being invaded by an avalanche of immigrants and refugees. in fact, we're at the lowest numbers in years. second, europe urgently needs migrants because we are getting older, because we need them to pay our pensions and support our welfare state. thirdly, the eu needs to give a common response, and you have had parliament's proposal on the table for months. fourthly, the council's conclusions are disappointing, despite the efforts of some governments, such as the spanish government, which have put human, european and decent treatment of migrants on the table. and the worst truth of all is that there are some who are willing to trade lives for votes because, although we are at the lowest numbers of immigrants in the last five years, june of this year has been the deadliest month of all in the mediterranean. we're not giving an adequate response. we are failing to stem the flows, because the flows are born of desperation; and we are fuelling the most xenophobic and racist debate in the eu.
in writing. in this age of post-truths and lies, we must speak with truths. first, we are not being invaded by an avalanche of immigrants and refugees. in fact, we're at the lowest numbers in years. second, europe urgently needs migrants because we are getting older, because we need them to pay our pensions and support our welfare state. thirdly, the eu needs to give a common response, and you have had parliament's proposal on the table for months. fourthly, the council's conclusions are disappointing, despite the efforts of some governments, such as the spanish government, which have put human, european and decent treatment of migrants on the table. and the worst truth of all is that there are some who are willing to trade lives for votes because, although we are at the lowest numbers of immigrants in the last five years, june of this year has been the deadliest month of all in the mediterranean. we're not giving an adequate response. we are failing to stem the flows, because the flows are born of desperation; and we are fuelling the most xenophobic and racist debate in the eu.
in writing. in this age of post-truths and lies, we must speak with truths. first, we are not being invaded by an avalanche of immigrants and refugees. in fact, we're at the lowest numbers in years. second, europe urgently needs migrants because we are getting older, because we need them to pay our pensions and support our welfare state. thirdly, the eu needs to give a common response, and you have had parliament's proposal on the table for months. fourthly, the council's conclusions are disappointing, despite the efforts of some governments, such as the spanish government, which have put human, european and decent treatment of migrants on the table. and the worst truth of all is that there are some who are willing to trade lives for votes because, although we are at the lowest numbers of immigrants in the last five years, june of this year has been the deadliest month of all in the mediterranean. we're not giving an adequate response. we are failing to stem the flows, because the flows are born of desperation; and we are fuelling the most xenophobic and racist debate in the eu.
in writing. in this age of post-truths and lies, we must speak with truths. first, we are not being invaded by an avalanche of immigrants and refugees. in fact, we're at the lowest numbers in years. second, europe urgently needs migrants because we are getting older, because we need them to pay our pensions and support our welfare state. thirdly, the eu needs to give a common response, and you have had parliament's proposal on the table for months. fourthly, the council's conclusions are disappointing, despite the efforts of some governments, such as the spanish government, which have put human, european and decent treatment of migrants on the table. and the worst truth of all is that there are some who are willing to trade lives for votes because, although we are at the lowest numbers of immigrants in the last five years, june of this year has been the deadliest month of all in the mediterranean. we're not giving an adequate response. we are failing to stem the flows, because the flows are born of desperation; and we are fuelling the most xenophobic and racist debate in the eu.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you for organising today’s debate about three very important parts of the so-called mobility package 1. let me stress that the social and market aspects of road transport are two sides of the same coin. that is why these legislative proposals have been put forward jointly, and it is why they should continue to be discussed and adopted together. if one of them fails, the interlinked social and market problems will not be solved. in other words, it is truly a ‘package’ approach. first, allow me to say few words on the posting of workers in road transport. thank you, ms kyllönen, for your constant efforts to find solutions on this very sensitive and difficult topic. the sector needs rules on posting which are clear, fair and well adapted to the highly mobile nature of transport activities. in short, we really need this lex specialis. i am glad to see that the report is comprehensive on the enforcement measures of posting. i welcome your ideas on the further use of digital solutions to make compliance and controls easier. as you do, we support a tight list of requirements to ensure legal certainty. i equally welcome your amendments aimed at reinforcing the principle of co-liability for infringements of the posting rules throughout the operational chain. it is more difficult to find a balanced solution on when these posting rules should apply. for the commission, there is no doubt that cabotage operations should be subject to posting rules from the very first day, and the proposed clarification that transit does not constitute posting is also very welcome. when it comes to the application of posting rules to international service, i want to make it clear that the commission supports neither full exclusion nor full inclusion. as the commission sees it, we need to distinguish between international operations that are very occasional and those where drivers spend substantial amounts of time in the host country. let me now comment briefly on the amendments on driving and rest-time rules and on tachographs – thanking mr de camp who had to work on a huge number of amendments. i am glad that parliament and the commission seem to share the same ambition of making the social legislation fit to address the needs of workers and companies in the road transport sector. it is crucial to provide for adequate resting conditions for drivers and to ensure they can return home regularly – in the interest not only of better working conditions but also of road safety. in this context, suitable parking and resting infrastructure is essential. therefore the commission sees some merits in the rapporteur’s proposal on dedicated parking areas where drivers could spend rest time in a comfortable, safe and secure environment. the work of drivers, operators and enforcers will certainly be facilitated by swifter introduction of smart tachographs. enforcement authorities would also benefit greatly from real-time access to relevant databases such as the european register of road transport undertakings (erru), and i therefore welcome the amendments introducing those necessary measures. however, there are three issues on which i would call for caution. first, in relation to rest-time rules applicable to passenger transport: allowing bus drivers to delay their daily rest or to take it in shorter parts could jeopardise passenger safety. in addition, such derogations would make controls more complex. road safety should always remain as first priority. second, in contrast to the situation with regular weekly rest, spending reduced weekly rests in a vehicle has not been identified as a problem during our public consultation and impact assessments. so we do not see a need to change the existing rules here. third, on the extension of the scope of the social rules to include light commercial vehicles below 3.5 tonnes, the commission has proposed the inclusion of such small vehicles within the scope of the rules on access to the profession. it is important to remain proportionate in our approach. finally, turning to mr ertug’s report on access to the profession and access to the market, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on many issues addressed in his report. i believe there is a broad consensus, in particular, on stepping up the fight against letterbox companies, with reinforced criteria to determine where hauliers must be legally established; on regulating light commercial vehicles involved in international transport so that those vehicles are not used to circumvent our legislation; and also on accelerating digitalisation, using electronic tools which should become standard in this sector. we generally welcome the solutions proposed on these issues but there are two aspects on which we have some concerns. first, on cabotage, the commission proposal aims at fighting illegal cabotage and improving the enforcibility of eu rules without changing the existing level of market access. some amendments, however, are very restrictive and could discourage cabotage – with a negative impact on the efficiency of logistics networks and the environment. they would also make the rules much more complex and difficult to enforce. second, on the establishment criteria, we fully support obliging hauliers to manage their activity from their member state of establishment but we disagree with obliging them to conduct loading and unloading with a certain frequency in that same member state. such a new obligation could have a negative impact, particularly by increasing empty runs. to conclude, i would like to underline the point that, for this mobility package, time is of the essence – and i mean it! the sector is urgently awaiting clear, enforceable and fair eu rules. it cannot function smoothly in a patchwork of uncoordinated and inefficient national rules, so the status quo is therefore not an option. we are talking about the development of a single market. let’s not go backwards. i know this sense of urgency is largely shared within this house, and the timetable is intended to have the new rules adopted before your elections. it is, however, possible to find a way forward and i feel that, if we stay at the table and talk and negotiate, we have a chance to move on and to give european citizens and businesses what they need in order to stay competitive and fair, to contribute to climate-change action and, of course, to continue developing their operations.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. mr president, as rapporteur for the committee on employment and social affairs, i recognize that the text of the committee on transport and tourism has struck a balance between the different realities in the european union. it is not the same to cross the whole of the european union from spain, portugal or poland as it is to operate from france, belgium or germany, where the distances that hauliers have to travel are much shorter. the posting of workers directive applies to cabotage from day one, so the remuneration received will be the same as that of the local worker, so it is not true that the workers are left unprotected. in addition, the obligation to return to the member state of establishment together with increased and improved controls will help to combat long-term cabotage and so-called 'mailbox companies', which are the real problem. of course it is important to defend workers - that is what we are working for - but what we cannot do is use it as a pretext for protectionist purposes. otherwise we would be against the single market, the free provision of services, free trade and, in short, against the values which the european union defends.
mr president, commissioner, this report and the transport package as a whole are essential to ending the fragmentation of this sector. we need to clarify and harmonise the application of the rules, to end social dumping, to improve the working conditions of professionals, to contribute to road safety and to prepare the sector for the changes that come with decarbonisation and the intensive application of technology to combine transport modes more efficiently. the directive on the mobility of workers contributes to these objectives by excluding international transport from its scope and by requiring drivers who perform cabotage to work from the first day under the conditions regulated for the sector in the country in which they provide the service. we have effectively banned the mail-order companies. we also want to ensure that breaches of the rules have an impact on the reputation of companies and their chances of gaining access to the market. we welcome the progress in standardising procedures, automation and reducing administrative burdens, but we still think that road transport needs a european agency.
mr president, we had and have achieved a compromise between the workers in the periphery and those in the centre, in other words we know that on the road the real problem is not just wages but prices. and we do not put prices on the periphery, of course: it is the shippers, the distributors, the supermarkets, who are in the centre, who set the prices. we have not had a great response to that at the moment, madam commissioner, and some of our proposals - and i thank mrs kyllönen for taking them into account - have been rejected. the compromise we have just made was, by all means, a compromise between the needs of both sides, in favour of the exclusion of transit and bilateral international transport with the return precisely to be able to load. but for the first time - and we all agreed - we accepted the application of the directive on the posting of workers to the coasting trade from day one, and we knew that it would cost some of the member states a great deal of money. we have also fought for the non-criminalization of drivers, that is, for fewer roadside checks and instead for checks to be carried out by companies and the authorities. we are in favour of the european agency and, of course, of the platform of mutual trust so that there is no discrimination against workers from abroad either.
i would like to repeat once again that what we are dealing with, as part of the mobility package, are the working conditions in one of the most precarious sectors in the european union. and we can make them better or worse. this is precisely what we are going to vote on tomorrow. those who work in this sector do so for ever lower wages, far from the principle of 'equal work, equal pay'. and what about the rest of your conditions! these workers sleep in the cabins, barely two square meters, located above the engines of trucks that have been running for hours. have you tried to rest in such places, at absolutely unbearable temperatures? the fatigue suffered by these workers is a problem for occupational health, but also for road safety. think of the power and the scope of a three-axle trailer. all this, safety and working conditions, is not corrected by more flexibility in driving times and rest periods. listen to the workers and their unions. it may seem incredible, but they are experts in the field.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, first of all, let me thank parliament for its continued monitoring of the situation in venezuela. the recent visit of the european parliament delegation to colombia’s and brazil’s regions bordering venezuela raised the visibility of the situation of many thousands of venezuelans fleeing their country. i saw that situation with my own eyes when i visited colombia, in particular cúcuta on the border between colombia and venezuela, three months ago. frankly, what i saw in cúcuta was dramatic, and heart-breaking because it could so easily have been avoided. but the crisis does not stop there. the number of venezuelans fleeing to countries in the region is growing rapidly. they are fleeing to brazil and colombia, where almost a million venezuelans have fled over the past two years, and also to peru, which has received around 400 000 venezuelans. venezuelans are also fleeing to ecuador and the caribbean countries, including the eu overseas countries and territories. according to the un high commission for refugees (unhcr), since 2014 more than 2 million venezuelans have left their country. more than 60% of them are currently in an irregular situation. all countries in the region are showing great solidarity in a challenging situation. we will stand by them to support their hospitality and to help them provide healthcare, education, housing and security for venezuelan refugees. unfortunately, there is still no solution in sight to the crisis in venezuela – this is the hard reality on the ground – a crisis which is first and foremost a political crisis but one which also has serious economic and social consequences. the destabilising effects on the region cannot be ignored. several international bodies, including the unhcr, have already made appeals for supplementary assistance. as a consequence, the european union – all of us – stepped up our support to venezuelans and their host communities, in order to alleviate their most pressing needs, starting with food and health services. we mobilised our humanitarian and cooperation instruments for an amount of eur 35 million. over half of it is being spent to address food security, water, sanitation and hygiene within venezuela, but there is also support for the socio-economic inclusion of migrants in neighbouring countries and, at the same time, for host communities. eur 5 million will be allocated to humanitarian aid for health assistance, food, water and protection for the most vulnerable people, mostly inside venezuela because the situation in venezuela remains really dramatic. another eur 5 million will aim to reduce social tensions and violence and to protect people displaced by the crisis. an additional eur 7 million can be used for other humanitarian requirements, but we intend to use part of this amount for cooperation on migration issues in other countries in the region. we europeans feel strongly for the people of venezuela. we feel their pain and their aspiration to put their country back on track. we are continuing to aim at a peaceful, constitutional and democratic solution to the crisis, ensuring that the rule of law and human rights are upheld. we also expect that venezuelans will be guaranteed better living conditions so that they do not need to leave their homes. the council of the european union called on 28 may for fresh democratic presidential elections – elections that should be free and fair and should respect constitutional rules. unfortunately, new additional and targeted restrictive measures were adopted last week. our objective as the european union is that venezuelan citizens should have the right to express their political will through a democratic, transparent process, so they can take the future of their country into their own hands. this is the most important democratic right. we believe that regional engagement has an important role to play to facilitate and accompany a negotiated solution to the crisis. i discussed the need for such regional solutions with president santos in bogotá during my visit in march. as you also know, high representative federica mogherini personally met with the foreign minister, the president of the national assembly and representatives of the main opposition parties. we will continue, together with our partners, to monitor any development and we will calibrate future actions in the light of the evolution of the situation. this crisis is man-made, there is nothing inevitable about it. a political solution is possible, and so is a better future for all people of venezuela. it is time for all sides, and particularly the government of venezuela, to engage seriously in moving towards a shared solution. this is the only way.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, the humanitarian crisis in cucuta is devastating. the solidarity shown by colombia deserves the union's recognition and the support of the international community. they can't do it alone. the colombians would never set up refugee camps for their venezuelan brothers. it's a mass displacement of desperate populations with four characteristics: return, destination, commuting and transit are mixed flows. they have created a register, a border mobility card and a special residence permit, which are useful administrative emergency instruments for ordering aid. 2,200 kilometers of border and only seven border posts, but they cross over 250 lanes. there are still the guerrillas and many criminal gangs: extortion and abuse. more than two million people have left venezuela: 820,000 are in colombia. they can't do it alone. colombians can't do it alone. everyone says the humanitarian situation is going to get worse. the union, commissioner, must increase its aid by releasing emergency funds. we are calling for a humanitarian corridor. we call for an end to the violations of human rights and for the restoration of freedom of the press, of expression and of assembly. we demand new free elections and urgently. and we also want them to lead to a democratic government that can address the crisis and undertake national reconciliation.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, those of us who have been to the venezuelan border have been impressed by the human river that crosses it every day. it's a river of suffering. people who have to leave their country to find food and medicine that they can no longer find in stores and pharmacies. we have seen it before and it is always terrible, but in venezuela there is something that makes it more outrageous: venezuelans do not flee their country because of a natural catastrophe or because of a war, as in syria. hunger and misery are a political operation of the regime of nicolás maduro, who wants a weak, hungry people, whom he can control and blackmail. a people without the strength to stand up to him. ideology, corruption and incompetence only explain part of the disaster. the main thing is a political decision: not to open a humanitarian channel that could save hundreds of thousands of lives. it is a criminal decision, as the oas report states, which accuses the chavista regime of crimes against humanity. europe must facilitate that maduro and the rest of the narcotrafficking hierarchy are held accountable by the hague criminal court. the countries that signed the rome statute must immediately activate the system of international justice that we have set up for this very purpose: to hold tyrants accountable for their crimes before the world, without any subterfuge or escape.
the european union is not a party to the conflict, but it is a party to the peace process. let me question your supposed humanitarian concern, concern that never puts the spotlight on our miseries or friendly governments. it would have been a fantastic idea to send a delegation to the mediterranean, but it has been a real humanitarian catastrophe: 100 people have died this week. or since you were in america, a delegation to the mexican border to see how the united states confines children in cages. or closer, in colombia: a tour of meta, amazonas, chocó..., where, in recent years, there have been dozens of deaths due to child malnutrition. you are not looking for sincere help to solve problems. you're only concerned with the instrumentalization of human rights in a regime change agenda, creating a humanitarian alarm that serves as an excuse for military intervention, as the head of the southern command wants. it must be hard and frustrating to accompany coups d'état, sabotage of the economy, sanctions and even street violence so that, election after election, venezuela reaffirms its sovereignty in the face of its attempt to re-edit a new ministry of colonies. (the speaker refuses to be asked a question under the 'blue card' procedure)
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the serious political, economic and social crisis in venezuela, the venezuelan people are affected by a serious humanitarian crisis affecting their neighbouring countries. the european parliament has wanted to show its solidarity with this situation by sending an ad hoc mission which was initiated by the president of the european parliament himself after the visit, incidentally, of commissioner stylianides, whom i would like to thank for his sensitivity and his work. but, madam president, it is important not to confuse effects with causes. the european parliament cannot and must not ignore the dramatic situation in this crisis, but it must mobilize all its efforts with the regional actors, the international community, the united nations and the lima group to restore democracy in venezuela, where human rights and fundamental freedoms are being seriously violated. and there are not a thousand solutions, madam president. the only solution is to give the venezuelan people back their voice so that, through democratic, free and fair elections, we can, without people being sanctioned, disqualified or imprisoned - as i say - give the venezuelan people back their voice and try to put behind us this time of suffering that is assaulting us - as the commissioner said and as colleagues who have been in brazil and colombia said - and these years of lack of freedom.
madam president, many will ask how it is possible that one of the richest countries on earth has produced two million immigrants. it's a question that's not answered by thinking this is a mystery, no. unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, this is the consequence of a failed revolution, a failed revolution, and it is also the consequence of a political crisis which requires a political solution. there are three points in the motion for a resolution which we are going to put to the vote which i would like to stress. the first concerns the member states, because the motion for a resolution calls, as our group was asking, for the member states to regularize venezuelans who have emigrated to our countries. in spain there are thousands, and i have asked the spanish government directly to regulate this situation. the same is required for the other member states. secondly, i would like to stress the importance of our concern also for peru. commissioner, peru, as you have said, has 400 000 venezuelans - probably less than the one million in colombia - but it also needs help, and we should extend it. and thirdly, let me stress the importance of the call for dialogue and for mrs mogherini and the european union to play an important role in favour of international mediation, because i share your view that the people must have their say again by means of a political agreement between the government and the opposition.
madam president, thank you, mr stylianides, for your sensitivity. there is a country in the world where 90% of the population lives, or rather, suffers from poverty; where 30% of childbearing means an increase in child mortality and 60% in maternal mortality; where measles, tuberculosis and malaria are endemic diseases; where there are no medicines and you have to consume veterinary medicines for animals because there is absolute shortage and there is hunger; where inflation is 130 000%, at a rate of one and a half per hour, and where corruption is rampant: it is the 169th country out of 180. this country is not called somalia, nor congo. it's a country that has tremendous oil wealth. this is venezuela. and it is the consequence of corruption, of inefficiency, of repression, of chavomaurist liberticide. and these are facts, not ideology. and that was created by incompetence and chavomaurist corruption, not international conspiracy. i demand for that country what i demand for us and what we all demand for ourselves: freedom and democracy, which for some is subversive. and i'm ashamed of them.
madam president, the very serious crisis in venezuela, not only political but also economic, social and humanitarian, is causing a major exodus of the population, since food and even medicine are scarce. it's not a soap opera, as one of our colleagues said, it's a documentary of horror and misery. nearly a million venezuelans have had to move to neighbouring colombia, whose border areas are in a very difficult situation. other nearby countries, and even spain, are receiving venezuelan refugees. i think that the aid of 35 million euros is not enough, commissioner. it seems to me that, at the forthcoming eu-celac ministerial meeting, and also at the meeting with the pacific alliance countries, it is appropriate to address this humanitarian crisis and to examine the most effective aid for those who have fled to colombia and other states and also, in general, for venezuelan citizens who remain in the country. it is necessary as agustín díaz de mera said the opening of a humanitarian corridor that caracas continues to hinder. the european union, on the other hand, and it must take advantage of the celac summit to do so, must take advantage of its contacts with the latin american countries to put firm pressure on the venezuelan authorities. it is about ending an authoritarian political line and allowing free presidential elections.
madam president, mr commissioner, two million people displaced in 2018, a 2000% increase in the number of asylum seekers since 2014, the emergence of diseases such as malaria, diphtheria, measles, and even polio, mothers walking kilometers with their children to cross the border and be able to vaccinate them and solidarity of the colombian people. that is what we have found in cucuta, on the border with venezuela, where caritas feeds more than eight thousand people a day. today i do not want to discuss how one of the richest countries in latin america has gotten to this point without war or objective reasons to justify it. i would like to address today the colleagues who were unable or unwilling to attend, and i am deeply sorry for this, because it would have allowed them to know the reality. i'm addressing those most connected to the venezuelan government. stop closing your eyes and please help make a humanitarian corridor possible to send medicine and food. the people of venezuela need it.
madam president, i hope that by the end of this month we can definitively declare the end of the current ebola outbreak. if that is the case, the european union, its neighbouring countries and the authorities on the ground should be congratulated for having learned from the past and for having acted quickly, providing safety and vaccines. but the humanitarian situation in the democratic republic of congo is alarming. in october last year, the united nations declared the country's highest humanitarian emergency level 3 due to the existence of two and a half million displaced people and four and a half million people in a food emergency. the future is not promising: 18 of the 26 provinces of the democratic republic of congo are in this humanitarian emergency situation. only 17% of the needs have been financed. we have to do much more and we have to take the word of the council representative today, who recognises the need to do more, and who must do more to apply it to the countries of the union.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, as we are debating this, a ship from the ngo open arms is heading for barcelona with four fellow meps from this house after having rescued 60 people who, without the ngo proactiva open arms, would surely have died, as did 400 people off the libyan coast this weekend because we have basically expelled the ngos from the mediterranean and have made a policy of training the libyan navy so that it can have its own rescue and salvage area, which it has shown it is incapable of doing, violating human rights. and the results are there. and on top of that, we have moved towards the criminalization of ngos, which have been so essential. and not just in the mediterranean. i would also like to remind the sevillian firefighters of proemaid, who were also accused of human trafficking for helping refugees. and this criminalization of humanitarian aid must end. and it must end, among other things, because - as has already been said - the united nations protocol against the illicit trafficking in migrants states very clearly that, in order to accuse someone of trafficking, there must be a clear and proven profit and, secondly, because you can never accuse of trafficking someone who is providing humanitarian aid. and it is true that in our directive, in the directive on the package of measures concerning border crossers, we have at the moment simply an indication that member states can introduce exceptions to humanitarian aid in the case of accusing someone of trafficking, and that is not enough. we therefore ask the commission to review this directive to oblige the member states to make humanitarian aid free of penalties and to make those guidelines which other members have also asked for. (the speaker refuses to be asked a question under the 'blue card' procedure by mr zdechovský.)
mr president, at a time when migratory flows are decreasing, the mediterranean is still a mass grave exposed to the inaction of the member states, which are turning their backs on good humanitarian practices such as those of the new spanish government, which received the aquarius and will receive the open arms ship tomorrow, wednesday. but what is most outrageous is that this aberrant interpretation of the aid directive persists. article 1 (2) of that directive states that member states 'may' exempt from criminal liability those who provide humanitarian aid in rescue at sea. you must say "should". it is therefore essential that the commission acts to ensure that humanitarian aid can never again be criminalised, which has allowed three spanish heroes, manuel, enrique and julio of proem-aid, to be put on trial. that no humanitarian organization should have to pay with the punishment of the bench or with a criminal process for having saved lives at sea with the sacrifice of their own.
mr president, the criminalization of ngos rescuing people in the mediterranean begins here, in the european institutions. a few hours ago, in this house, the president of the european council, donald tusk, warned ngos: 'respect the law and do not obstruct the work of the libyan coastguard'. i'm filled with shame. i am ashamed that ngos, which are the only ones who have a duty to help, are being attacked in this way. since when does mr tusk represent the libyan coastguard paramilitaries? proactiva open arms has already denounced recently in this parliament the criminalization of all activists. first it was discrediting campaigns, then it was military action, threats, shootings and kidnappings. now it goes to prosecution. you can take note, commissioner, as i said. seawatch and lifeline are still being held. this week four members of this house are witnessing open arms rescuing 60 people and closing their ports in italy and malta. the problem is that you, commissioner, have no rescue and reception policy. what it has is a policy of faithful adherence to the xenophobic and racist policies of the far right.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but i am saying that it should be involved in the negotiations, and i am not saying that it should be involved in the negotiations. categories or indicators are established which leave the door open for larger companies with a larger capital, such as mid-caps, to access sme aid. this distorts the very meaning of what a small and medium-sized enterprise is. nor can we agree to allow a two-year adjustment period for companies which have lost their sme status because they have increased their number of employees or their turnover, to adapt to the new regime to which they must be subject. a company does not transform overnight: aid must be granted in the process of transformation, but not after it has already taken place. in short, we are not making any progress with this proposed definition; indeed, smes are not going to benefit from it. the result will be the opposite: indefiniteness and benefits for the larger companies.
mr president, 99 per cent of the companies, 90 million workers, as i have just said. this highlights that the data show that smes are not only a source of employment and wealth, but also a very important element of social cohesion and social cohesion in europe. but it is necessary to create an environment - as it has become clear - that is more suitable for improvement and for growth. improvements in the definition, simplification of administrative barriers which hamper their competitiveness, promotion of exports, promotion of programmes to support innovation and modernisation and the establishment of support mechanisms. some are planned in the next multiannual financial framework. we need to provide resources to increase expansion, to increase competitiveness, to improve the environment and to continue to generate employment and economic activity.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, mr morawiecki, from your speech it would seem that you are living in one reality and your country is living in a very different one. we have adopted by a large majority in this house a number of resolutions warning them of the flagrant breach of article 2 of the founding treaty, because their ultraconservative, xenophobic and sexist government is adopting reforms which are destroying democracy and freedoms in their country. amnesty international reminds us that your government is still determined to control the judiciary, the right of assembly, the functioning of ngos, media freedom, sexual and reproductive rights or the right to asylum. you are creating the breeding ground for social conflict, which you then try to tackle with the same recipe: a law against freedom of assembly, which is leading hundreds of people to face criminal sanctions for participating in peaceful meetings - yes, peaceful meetings - and defending human rights. a new anti-abortion law was debated in poland on monday, which will further limit access to legal and safe abortion: a bill that would deprive women of medical care to abort, even in the case of severe fetal malformation, when official statistics show that 96 percent of legal abortions are performed for such reasons. massive demonstrations during black fridays managed to stop this reform in 2016 and, this monday, women have again demonstrated their strength and determination. you can't keep playing with women's lives, mr. morawiecki. listen to them, even if the church bells don't let you hear. and speaking of the right to asylum, you refused to participate in the 2016 relocation plan; you are making summary returns to belarus that the european court of human rights has ordered you to stop. yesterday, the european commission opened an infringement procedure against them for breaching the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights of the union for their reforms of the judiciary. is this what you want for your country, mr. prime minister? do you want to go down in history as the prime minister who ended the separation of powers, freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, the rights of women, refugees and lgbtq people? we live in a time of double standards, double truth and double accounting, said the writer vázquez montalbán. poland today is a very clear example of this: the same european institutions, relentless against greece for asking for a restructuring of its public debt, are allowing xenophobic governments to continue to curtail democratic freedoms. we in this group stand in solidarity with all those who are fighting for democratic, civil and sexual freedoms in poland and we call on the commission to apply real and effective sanctions which will help to redress the governmental authoritarianism, because we believe in a europe - another europe - where, unlike today, economic policy can be discussed and debated freely, but where the most basic human rights are unquestionable.
mr president, mr prime minister, six prime ministers from other countries have already passed through this parliament. the common denominator of all of them, when they talk about the future of europe, is that we can only do together what we must do together. the idea that the european union, facing the future, needs to share great objectives and we must do it together. my question, mr prime minister, is whether you think that the future of europe - competitiveness, security, climate change, the fight against tax fraud - can only be achieved from within a single state, with that song that you have sung to the nation, to the state; whether you do not think it is more reasonable to tackle these great challenges precisely together, building the european union of the future together. how is it possible to do it with just a song to the nation and the state?
the rapporteur. madam president, on behalf of the other members, and after having spoken to the other groups in the committee, in accordance with rule 59 (4), we ask you to put the matter back to the committee for interinstitutional negotiations.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate greece on leaving the bailout regime after eight years. we all know that the reform process has been painful for many greek citizens, but it is very good news that greece can stand on its feet. i would like to ask the commission and the greek government to continue the implementation of the approved legislation. full implementation of eu law will generate convergence in the quality of the interinstitutional framework with the best european countries. it is also the advice of the liberal group that the greek government improve its application of eu law. delayed payments regulation is a case where the greek economy would have big dividends to avoid future generation of non-performing loans when the next crisis comes. moreover, i have seen in the reports provided to the meps by the european parliament that there are eur 90 billion of unpaid taxes in greece, so, mr centeno, which measures are in place in order to recover these astounding figures? greek public debt could be lowered very substantially. it would also be good to understand how revenues from income tax have been lower in 2017 than in 2016, even though the economy of the country is growing. and finally, i would like to call again for the greek judiciary to drop all charges against andreas georgiou. he did his job well when he made public the real figures of greece’s public debt and deficit 10 years ago. i hope that the path of reforms will continue to grow in the coming years.
madam president, i think we should be pleased that greece is now able to get out of the programmes it has suffered in recent years. i would like to congratulate - as has already been done - the greek people and mr centeno on the efforts made in recent months. but i would also like to recall the work of commissioner moscovici in the first half of 2015, when the programme that is now coming to an end was being negotiated, because his efforts and the efforts of many socialists in this house would have allowed even that third programme to be better than the previous two. and in any case, it is better than the previous two, which greece has implemented in this period. in any case, the agreement we are concluding raises questions, because forecasting debt sustainability between now and 2060 is obviously part of an exercise in prediction, but really with little firm economic basis. we must therefore keep in mind that greece must tackle this debt reduction with firm support from its european partners, that we must tackle this clear debt review and that, above all, we must stress the need to reform the euro area now, because we still have no deposit insurance, we still have no good european stability mechanism, we still have no countercyclical fiscal instrument. we are in a very, very precarious situation still, and that is what we have to do in the coming months.
madam president, we have heard insults against italian gypsies before in this parliament. a friend of salvini did it. some say it's just a provocation. to discount it is an absolute mistake. because it cultivates sectarian language from the seat of power and its political partners have agreed to skip a red line of the european union, that of stigmatising a human collective: italian citizens of roma origin. gypsies and migrants are two lightning rods to channel the hatred and frustration of italians in order to attract votes. he's a villain. how can you be so shameless as to talk about doing a specific census of gypsies? have you forgotten the italian racial laws that were enacted from 1938 to 1944? have you read the biography of the italian nobel prize winner rita levi montalcini, who suffered them? or the family history of natalia ginzburg, who also suffered them? hasn't the decades of fascism in italy left a memory of how dangerous it is to stigmatize groups and decide who is a good or a bad citizen? such a person does not deserve to be in a democratic government and, of course, we, of course, i will fight this kind of manipulation with all my strength.
in writing. italy's interior minister continues the xenophobic escalation that so good electoral revenues are providing him. now he's targeted another minority behind the immigrants. this time it is the roma citizens, who he warned were being prepared for a census that would allow their expulsion from italy. this is clearly unconstitutional. the reality is that the idea, like the proposal to expel 500,000 immigrants that he repeatedly puts forward, is not an improvised invention; it was already part of the government's agreement with the five star movement. it's embarrassing, you know? we want to denounce the lukewarm and inadequate response of the european commission to this issue. just a few laconic warnings coming in. much greater force is needed to respond to this unbearable spiral of nationalism, populism and xenophobia which has taken over the eu and reached its very founding nucleus: italy. we must denounce salvini's xenophobic and racist words with all our might and publicly expose the clearly fascist ideology they represent and we ask this parliament to raise its voice in defence of the values on which our union is based and which are currently being challenged.
in writing. italy's interior minister continues the xenophobic escalation that so good electoral revenues are providing him. now he's targeted another minority behind the immigrants. this time it is the roma citizens, who he warned were being prepared for a census that would allow their expulsion from italy. this is clearly unconstitutional. the reality is that the idea, like the proposal to expel 500,000 immigrants that he repeatedly puts forward, is not an improvised invention; it was already part of the government's agreement with the five star movement. it's embarrassing, you know? we want to denounce the lukewarm and inadequate response of the european commission to this issue. just a few laconic warnings coming in. much greater force is needed to respond to this unbearable spiral of nationalism, populism and xenophobia which has taken over the eu and reached its very founding nucleus: italy. we must denounce salvini's xenophobic and racist words with all our might and publicly expose the clearly fascist ideology they represent and we ask this parliament to raise its voice in defence of the values on which our union is based and which are currently being challenged.
in writing. italy's interior minister continues the xenophobic escalation that so good electoral revenues are providing him. now he's targeted another minority behind the immigrants. this time it is the roma citizens, who he warned were being prepared for a census that would allow their expulsion from italy. this is clearly unconstitutional. the reality is that the idea, like the proposal to expel 500,000 immigrants that he repeatedly puts forward, is not an improvised invention; it was already part of the government's agreement with the five star movement. it's embarrassing, you know? we want to denounce the lukewarm and inadequate response of the european commission to this issue. just a few laconic warnings coming in. much greater force is needed to respond to this unbearable spiral of nationalism, populism and xenophobia which has taken over the eu and reached its very founding nucleus: italy. we must denounce salvini's xenophobic and racist words with all our might and publicly expose the clearly fascist ideology they represent and we ask this parliament to raise its voice in defence of the values on which our union is based and which are currently being challenged.
in writing. italy's interior minister continues the xenophobic escalation that so good electoral revenues are providing him. now he's targeted another minority behind the immigrants. this time it is the roma citizens, who he warned were being prepared for a census that would allow their expulsion from italy. this is clearly unconstitutional. the reality is that the idea, like the proposal to expel 500,000 immigrants that he repeatedly puts forward, is not an improvised invention; it was already part of the government's agreement with the five star movement. it's embarrassing, you know? we want to denounce the lukewarm and inadequate response of the european commission to this issue. just a few laconic warnings coming in. much greater force is needed to respond to this unbearable spiral of nationalism, populism and xenophobia which has taken over the eu and reached its very founding nucleus: italy. we must denounce salvini's xenophobic and racist words with all our might and publicly expose the clearly fascist ideology they represent and we ask this parliament to raise its voice in defence of the values on which our union is based and which are currently being challenged.
in writing. italy's interior minister continues the xenophobic escalation that so good electoral revenues are providing him. now he's targeted another minority behind the immigrants. this time it is the roma citizens, who he warned were being prepared for a census that would allow their expulsion from italy. this is clearly unconstitutional. the reality is that the idea, like the proposal to expel 500,000 immigrants that he repeatedly puts forward, is not an improvised invention; it was already part of the government's agreement with the five star movement. it's embarrassing, you know? we want to denounce the lukewarm and inadequate response of the european commission to this issue. just a few laconic warnings coming in. much greater force is needed to respond to this unbearable spiral of nationalism, populism and xenophobia which has taken over the eu and reached its very founding nucleus: italy. we must denounce salvini's xenophobic and racist words with all our might and publicly expose the clearly fascist ideology they represent and we ask this parliament to raise its voice in defence of the values on which our union is based and which are currently being challenged.
in writing. italy's interior minister continues the xenophobic escalation that so good electoral revenues are providing him. now he's targeted another minority behind the immigrants. this time it is the roma citizens, who he warned were being prepared for a census that would allow their expulsion from italy. this is clearly unconstitutional. the reality is that the idea, like the proposal to expel 500,000 immigrants that he repeatedly puts forward, is not an improvised invention; it was already part of the government's agreement with the five star movement. it's embarrassing, you know? we want to denounce the lukewarm and inadequate response of the european commission to this issue. just a few laconic warnings coming in. much greater force is needed to respond to this unbearable spiral of nationalism, populism and xenophobia which has taken over the eu and reached its very founding nucleus: italy. we must denounce salvini's xenophobic and racist words with all our might and publicly expose the clearly fascist ideology they represent and we ask this parliament to raise its voice in defence of the values on which our union is based and which are currently being challenged.
madam president, commissioner, the seiav system will subject each applicant to a detailed security check to determine whether he is allowed entry into any schengen country. the etias, in addition to being used for tourism and business purposes, will also allow people to visit schengen countries for medical or transit purposes. it will also be compulsory for all countries which are exempt from the schengen visa. countries such as the united states and canada have very similar systems, which have proved to be very useful. i'm talking about the eta or the esta. the ultimate purpose of the eiopa is security. the terrorism that has struck us in recent years requires us to take measures to help identify people who may pose a risk before they arrive at the union's borders. this identification will be possible through the comparison between data collected in the etias and data stored in europol databases. in the same vein, europol may consult the etias databases for use as a tool for threat detection and other operations. this system, ladies and gentlemen, is going to be part of the interoperability package. the etias together with sis, vis, eurodac, the ees, ecris, europol and interpol. the etias is a key component of the european search portal. this will close information gaps and ensure the full identification of the so-called 'threat subject' quickly. however, commissioner, rapporteur kinga gál, the etias itself is a basic instrument for continuing to improve information and border control systems and for improving their security.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is needless to repeat that external borders management is at the very core of our work to enhance security and improve our management of migration. together, we are implementing initiatives which make a clear difference in that domain. at the european external action service (eeas), we promote mobility between the schengen area and third countries, while contributing to the fight against terrorism and serious crimes and safeguarding fundamental rights. in this context, i welcome the fact that you have recently reached an agreement with the council on eu-lisa and sis. on sis, one of the main priorities of the etias rapporteur was to ensure coherence between sis and etias. a big effort on this was made during the negotiation on etias. the visa information system (vis) together with etias and the recently adopted entry—exit system will together form part of a single platform for third—country nationals visiting the european union. etias will fill a significant information gap on visa exempt travellers. the vis proposal will close the gap on long—stay document holders. together, the three systems will allow verifications of third—country nationals crossing our external borders into the schengen area for short and long stays. it is therefore of paramount importance that the development of the three systems is synchronised, as etias provides for interoperability with our other eu information systems for borders, migration and security. it not only brings added value, in itself, but also reinforces the added value of other eu information systems. the reinforced eu-lisa will be the beating heart of our work to develop these systems, put them into effect and ensure their smooth and seamless functioning. for these reasons, i call on you to reach a swift agreement with the council on the vis proposal so that together we can add the last missing piece of the new eu information platform for borders and security. i am looking forward to the start of the development of etias and the other information systems we have in the pipeline. you will remember that it was one of my priorities from the very first moment i was designated commissioner responsible for security and migration. i am more than happy to share the responsibility with you and, most importantly, to share the results that we achieve. i encourage you to support these important pieces of legislation when you vote later tomorrow.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the next item is the debate on the report by mr daniele viotti, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the mandate for the tripartite negotiation on the draft budget 2019 (2018/2024 ((bud)) (a8-0247/2018).
mr president, the draft budget, as presented by the commission, contains interesting proposals in some areas, and problems, but i see with regret that in terms of volume it proposes an even lower percentage of gni as compared to 2010 for both commitment and payment appropriations. the content and priorities do not match today’s most pressing challenges, especially when it comes to internal and external security and climate change. a key area of the 2019 budget is migration and border management. however, i am afraid that this budget will sadly not contribute to enhance solidarity nor integration because it keeps making the link between migration and security. a final word on defence: i don’t welcome the militarisation of the eu budget through programmes such as the european defence industrial development programme as scarce resources are diverted from functioning programmes with better and more justified aims. nevertheless, i thank the rapporteur for his work. i wish him good luck and tenacity for the upcoming negotiations.
mr president, commissioner, the budget is increasing by 3.1%, but it is still not enough. the union is facing major challenges, such as unemployment, the ecological transition or humanitarian reception, where it seems clear that the council, unfortunately, is not going to do anything useful, as we have seen in recent weeks. but worse than being a budget shortfall is that it is misdirected. as regards the juncker plan, for example, now called investeu, it remains unclear whether it meets the ideal additionality requirements and would therefore be financing projects without any risk, rather than being a driver of real and direct public investment. the youth employment programmes are failing to change the situation of a structural problem, namely the lack of employment, especially in the peripheral countries, which see their population, mainly young people, having to migrate. and what sustainable development is this budget talking about? let's see: they reduce spending on biodiversity, research, climate change, and increase spending on fossil fuel or defense infrastructure. wow, wow, that doesn't sound very sustainable to say the least! and what about the increased spending on criminalizing migration and asylum with frontex, turkey or libya? in fact, heading 5 (administration) is increasing by almost 3%, mainly because of pensions. and how can it not increase if you have commissioners like cañete or former ministers like margallo of the people's party in spain, collecting pensions and salaries at the same time. there you have an easy cut and that's what everyone's waiting for: your privileges.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
madam president, i simply wanted to say to mr ashworth - and i am joking here - that i must acknowledge that mrs gräßle has put a lot of effort into the exercise of co-chairmanship, because you switched to the epp group halfway through the exercise. i must say that i am glad now that i was not mrs gräßle's co-leader, because i would have probably also gone on to add to those ranks. that is the persuasive power it has in the exercise of the revision of the regulation. after these jokes, i would like to thank the commission for all the hard work it has put in over the last few months; i would also like to thank the commissioner, his services and ours, our secretariats, both those of the cont committee and those of the groups; and i would also like to pay a small tribute to the director-general, nadia calviño, who has gone on to make the socialist and pro-european government of our president, pedro sánchez, stronger. in budgetary control, one of the principles in which errors multiply exponentially is precisely the complexity of the programmes. in fact, that's precisely why this simplification exercise. and to that we add the repeated complaints from all the beneficiaries of the programmes, which do not help us to improve the image either. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are certainly glad that the trust fund was not extended to cover the internal policies of the european union, because while it increases flexibility, it also limits our capacity for control. and yet we regret that the council did not accept the flexibility for external action and the crisis reserve. however, we are concerned that the new mff will not be able to implement all the improvements of the regulation in the new regulations.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank you again for raising this issue and making us aware of the difficulties faced by ‘accidental americans’. let me reiterate that the commission was not part of the negotiations with the united states on the rules implementing fatca in the member states, which remain a member state competence, but i promise i will speak to my fellow commissioner moscovici about a possible concerted way forward with the member states to approach us tax authorities.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, i have followed this discussion with interest. i have heard also the input from the commission and from the meps who stayed late this evening to fight for the people affected, and i fully appreciate this. i understand some member states have been in contact bilaterally with the us authorities over concerns linked to the implementation of fatca. against the background regarding the question which was raised – and i would rather say the ‘accusation’ raised by mep in ‘t veld several times – which is why the eu is more actively and pursuing the issue, i would like to state that the eu has not yet been called on to take collective action, since member states have been dealing with this issue individually in close cooperation with the us. and to mep in ‘t veld (i see that you have changed your place – i thought you were leaving already, so i am happy that you are still here), i would prefer to be quoted correctly. i said that it is not the role of the council to evaluate the impact of an intergovernmental agreement concluded by member states and the us. that is not the role of the council. and i would state that again, because what we are talking about here are bilateral agreements. nevertheless, the payment account directive contains a detailed review clause. the commission has been requested both by the council and by the european parliament to submit a report three years after implementation of the directive, accompanied by any appropriate proposals. the report will deal, in particular, with infringements to the application of the directive. the report should also highlight the number of credit institutions offering payment accounts with basic features, the associate fees, the characteristics of the consumers who have opened payment accounts with basic features, as well as best practices for reducing consumers’ exclusion from access to payment services. however, the presidency will of course remain available for exchanges on the subject as needed, and is ready to be in touch with the commission. i hope that i was able to clarify the situation, and i thank you again for your attention.
member of the commission. – madam president, thank you for tabling this issue on the agenda of the plenary of the european parliament. we often discuss the european elections these days and this debate gives us the opportunity to emphasise that the right to vote, both in law and in reality, should be enjoyed by everyone. this was clearly spelled out in the european disability strategy for the years 2010-2020. in addition, in the 2017 citizenship report, the commission prioritised the promotion of citizens’ participation in the democratic life of the eu, including that of vulnerable groups, such as persons with disabilities. the data available shows that, given the opportunity, people with disabilities actively participate in politics. let me recall from the outset that the practical organisation of elections in the eu member states, including the rules that apply to people with disabilities, falls within the competence of each member state in compliance with eu law. for its part, the commission actively promotes the identification and exchange of best practices in order to enhance the participation of persons with disabilities in elections. the commission also highlighted this issue in its recent recommendation on enhancing the european nature and efficient conduct of the 2019 european elections. let me also refer to the commission’s 2018 report on local elections, which examined the policies of the member states to support turnout among under—represented groups, including persons with disabilities. good practices include braille templates for the ballot paper, audio recorders at polling booths and the possibility of early voting, as well as voting in retirement homes and hospitals. the commission will continue to use its network of member state experts in electoral matters to identify and promote best practices in this area, as it did in april this year. the commission has also launched a study on remote voting solutions. in addition, the commission has given funding to several eu—level disability organisations in order to collect information on barriers to voting, including the experiences of persons with intellectual disabilities. i very much look forward to this debate.
the s&d group. - madam president, 51% of people with disabilities say they want to participate in political life, compared with 48% of people without disabilities. 82% of people with disabilities who can exercise their right to vote do so, compared with 51% of the non-disabled population. this is the case for hundreds of thousands of disabled people in the european union who have limited and cannot exercise this right to vote because of their legal incapacity. only seven member states guarantee the right to vote in all cases to persons with disabilities and only eight member states have defined strategies to promote the participation of persons with disabilities in political life. all this is contrary to article 12 and article 29 of the united nations convention, which calls for the removal of all physical and legal barriers and for the right of these people to participate in public life to be guaranteed. i therefore ask the european commission to promote concrete measures to ensure that the member states bring their respective legislation into line with the un convention.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, commissioner, the european institutions are bound by the contents of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, and so are the signatory states. we must, in view of the forthcoming elections, live up to the commitments and promises made at the fourth european parliament of the disabled last december. more determination and leadership was called for to turn rights into reality that are clear on paper and on which there is no opposition between parties and organizations; they ultimately depend on the political will to lead the commitment to allocate means and resources, and the effort to change cultures that contradict the contents of the convention. it should be recalled that article 29 of the convention guarantees political rights to persons with disabilities and the possibility of enjoying them on an equal basis with others. to this end, it sets out commitments on full and effective participation in political life on equal terms and, of course, the right and opportunity of persons with disabilities to vote and be elected. the next european elections should set an example in adapting electoral procedures, facilities and materials to the needs of people with disabilities. they should mark a milestone in accessibility and encourage a movement to encourage the presence of more and new representatives of the disabled on the electoral rolls. according to existing data, one in six people over the age of 15 in the union has some form of disability. their functional diversity makes them different, but not unequal; they have much to teach us. and there is no better way to work this necessary empathy than to have them close by, to listen to them every day and to learn that what we often consider normal - a ladder, a faucet, a colour scheme - is for many europeans a true wall.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, there are some 70 million people in the european union who suffer from some form of disability. the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities provides in article 12 for equal recognition before the law and in article 29 for the participation of disabled persons in public life, including the right to vote and to be elected. we must ensure that these people are not discriminated against, both in the european elections and in the elections in each of our member states. in spain, for example, criticism has been voiced by various organisations and institutions, since, as the united nations itself has observed, there are still serious shortcomings in the application of the convention, especially with regard to people with mental disabilities. i therefore call for progress at all levels and in all administrations, adapting legal systems, removing administrative barriers and facilitating complaint mechanisms to be able to vote. only then can we take effective steps towards true equality of rights.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their contributions and dedication in promoting the rights of people with disabilities. let me react on several questions and comments. first, on legal questions. both the eu and its member states are parties to the united nations convention, which has to be implemented according to their respective competencies. council directives 93/109/ec and 94/80/ec on the electoral rights of mobile eu citizens apply the principle of equality and non-discrimination between nationals and non-nationals in the exercise of the electoral rights associated with eu citizenship. the directives as such do not presuppose complete harmonisation of member states’ electoral systems, which, to a large extent, remain governed by national laws. also, the court of justice confirmed that it is up to eu countries to regulate aspects of european parliament electoral procedure not harmonised at eu level by the electoral act. however, they must respect eu law, including the charter on fundamental rights and the general principles of eu law, which include equality of treatment and non-discrimination. in saying that the electoral law and the rules fall under the competence of the member states, the commission is not declaring that this is not something which we want to work on and which we do not want to support. you asked, rightly, about what the commission did, what it does and what it will do. i can only repeat here what i indicated at the beginning – the commission’s actions support and supplement national policies and programmes to promote political participation and the exercise of the electoral rights of under-represented groups, including persons with disabilities. the commission remains committed to enhancing in future reports its assessment of existing election procedures in this area among the member states. we have already started working on the new strategy after 2020, because i think that it is important to have a proper, solid strategic paper which will cover this very important topic. also, last year, the commission adopted its third report on eu citizenship. it envisages that this year we should promote best practices which help citizens vote and stand in eu elections, including citizens with disabilities. this year, in april, i met the electoral commissioners of all the member states and we discussed how best to promote the electoral rights of under-represented groups. we didn’t speak about general stuff. we didn’t speak about the use of proclamations. we spoke about those concrete actions and the needs of people with disabilities, which you have mentioned here as well. this was the first step and this debate with the electoral commissioners will feed into this november’s colloquium on fundamental rights, because we will organise this high-level event on democratic participation with a special focus on increasing the participation of young people and vulnerable and under-represented groups. as i said, this debate will take place in the framework of the fundamental rights colloquium dedicated to democracy. we organise this colloquium every year. it is open to the public, it is web-streamed. we have very good feedback from the widest possible society. this is not just one of those events where we speak with the same group of people within some bubble. this is a very open event and i very much hope that this will be the right place where we will discuss the possible sharing of best practices, including the possibilities of using digital voting tools and some other concrete measures which the member states could and should introduce into their system to enable people to take part in the electoral process. i can assure you that the commission shares the commitment to promoting the political participation of people with disabilities. i will look into the possibility of using the european social fund and some other funding possibilities because i really want this money to serve the best purpose and this is a very important matter. we should also be able to help civil society, helping and working with people with disabilities to open the door to the voting rooms and help them to take part in it. that was about the right to vote. now let me touch just briefly upon the right to be voted. i think that we are all members of political parties and we should take it as our homework as well, our personal homework, to go to our political parties and to speak about the need for more diversity. i am personally involved in several campaigns enhancing the participation of women and the participation of representatives of minorities. i am personally mentoring several very promising young roma politicians and i think that we have to do the same in our political parties to raise this topic and help people with disabilities get onto candidate lists. i think that diversity, as i said, is very important and we can all do something very concrete, something which can be done today, tomorrow, in our political groups so as to have more people with disabilities participating actively in the elections.
in writing. political participation is a right of citizenship recognised to all people. the disabled should therefore not be prevented from exercising their right to participate in political life and to vote. these rights are recognized in various international human rights treaties, such as the united nations universal declaration of human rights, the international covenant on civil and political rights and the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. we must therefore work from the european union, and in our case from this parliament, to guarantee these rights, namely the right to information, the right to vote itself, the right to participate in the process and the right to exercise on an equal footing. it is our responsibility to ensure that these rights are enjoyed by all, without any obstacles to their exercise, and this is the objective we must work towards.
author. mr president, mrs mogherini, in this plenary session of the european parliament we are dealing as usual with the problems and setbacks of fundamental rights, whether in europe, as when we discuss the setbacks of the rule of law and the separation of powers in poland or the unacceptable statements by the italian minister of the interior, matteo salvini, against the roma or the general stigmatisation of foreigners as if they were a threat to our security, when in reality many of them are fleeing terror. or outside europe, as is the case in somalia: terrorist attacks, al shabab, continuing massacres... a newly elected democratic situation? there were elections in 2018, but there are still a lot of problems that are affecting the fundamental rights freedom of association, freedom of expression, freedom of association, harassment of unions and, of course, repression of freedom of expression of journalists. and that is why it is essential that the european union fully engages in diplomacy with the united nations and the african union itself to sign the commitment to external action and development cooperation with the mandate of respecting and preserving the fundamental rights of all people.
mr president, mrs mogherini, somalia is one of the poorest countries in the world and has been mired in a kind of civil war for over a decade. clan violence is being exploited by outside interests, such as saudi arabia, one of our main trading partners, unfortunately. the constant floods and droughts are aggravating the plight of the somali people. terrorism is fought with sustainable development, with integration and social cohesion, with the redistribution of wealth, as the resolution we are voting on today clearly states, not with militarisation. the stabilization of somalia requires that we put an end to the hypocrisy of our foreign policy. development aid should not be conditional on its complicity in the union's nefarious migration policy, which should focus on achieving the sustainable development goals. but sadly, the largest expenditure by far by the international community in somalia is military. we would not object if drones were to spread social inclusion and human rights, but we know that, as a result of our political coherence, this is not the case.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i accept the descriptions of somalia that have been made, but there is one issue that nobody is getting involved in. in somalia they are fighting the somalis and, very effectively, the terrorist militia of al-shabab, but on the other side they are fighting the foreigners, as is happening in afghanistan. the taliban are the afghans and the ones who are preventing the taliban from winning are the foreigners. something is happening when in a place where the clans and tribes are extraordinarily effective in war, the only ones who are effectively fighting al shabab are the foreigners, and when the foreigners leave, the locals, which is the terrorist militia, will win. we have to do more than just "words". the problem is not increasing foreign units or the presence of the united nations; the problem is having local actors, because you cannot make a war against or without the local people. what we're doing is keeping a dead system on life support, and we're gonna pay for it in the end.
blue-card question. – honourable colleague, i understand that fake news has been spread much too often in recent times, and in particular it had a lot to do with the result of the brexit referendum in the uk, but i just heard you say that the spanish government imprisons political opponents with impunity. how can you say that? are you aware that it was a judicial decision in the first place and nothing to do with the government’s decision? are you aware that the grounds are precisely that they have presumably committed criminal offences? how do you dare to spread fake news, live in the european parliament, with impunity?
mr president, since 2015 almost half a million people have fled burundi and this year, it is expected, there will be even more. agricultural production has declined, prices have risen and basic services have been cut. in addition, the government systematically represses civil society and violates their human rights, while repressing all political opposition. that is why i am concerned that the unhcr burundi plan has received only 21 percent of the funding it needed for 2017. we regret that burundi has withdrawn from the international criminal court and call for the establishment of political dialogue between the parties, the release of political prisoners, the reopening of the media and ngos and for neighbouring states to guarantee the safe return of refugees on the principle of the voluntary action of each person. finally, in the context of the humanitarian and migration crisis, we call for the granting of refugee status to all asylum seekers from burundi.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, the european solidarity corps reinforces previous volunteering programmes by adapting them to the present circumstances. today there are eurosceptic currents which seek to undermine the building of solidarity which we are building. but the young people, who are the great europeanists, will not allow it. through this programme, they will be able to give altruistic help or work where they are needed most; they will gain valuable experience that can serve them in their professional careers. very important: young people who will meet other young people and will create a network of affections that will make them more european and strengthen our union. these programmes are not secondary or ancillary to the european programmes. the economy, transport, finance - all these are very important, but solidarity and friendship are the vital fabric that will sustain europe.
mr president, commissioner, we are discussing the establishment of the european solidarity corps. fate has it that it will be exactly two years after president juncker's announcement during the state of the union debate. in my role as an alternative rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, i tried to make clear the need for the life programme funds, which will be allocated to the construction of this body - some four and a half million - to be used for activities of the solidarity corps relating to the environment. mitigating the effects of extreme temperatures, fires, floods, etc. will be very important tasks for this body to carry out, recovering one of the founding values of the european union that we have today: solidarity. solidarity between europeans does not mean that the institutions cover up the embarrassments between member states. solidarity is expressed, as president juncker said in that debate, when portuguese forests are on fire and you help them to put italian planes out; when croatia is flooded and the electricity generators are swedish. if we do not restore the sense of community, of belonging to something larger than our small or large state, if we do not try to restore the idea that any impact on one european will resonate in the hearts and souls of all europeans, we will hardly be able to regain the path towards the union that its builders envisioned. bono once said that we must move from the idea of europe to the feeling of europe. i sincerely believe, mr president, that this report is a step in the right direction.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, i am absolutely against this proposal to reduce the relevance of cohesion policy in favour of increasing funds by a very considerable percentage to implement structural reforms which are only bringing about the harmful consequences of austerity for the majority of the citizens, the population. under this pretty name of 'program to support structural reforms' are hidden strategies of job precariousness, privatisation of public assets, measures of competitiveness...etc; which, as is being demonstrated, look very well in the overall data of the economy but without really reaching the pocket of the citizens. the council has also rejected the proposal put forward by our group, the gue/ngl, to include tax evasion and the fight against poverty in the programme's objectives. it is further proof that what matters to this european union is more than anything the big numbers and not how wealth is distributed among the population. more cohesion policy and less structural reform. more distribution of wealth and less concentration of capital.
mr president, i want to express my full support for the continuation in northern ireland of the cohesion programmes and especially the peace programme, which is fundamental to the consolidation of the peace process resulting from the good friday agreement. peace is an example of how the union, with political and financial commitment, has contributed on european soil to the resolution of a conflict by reconciling communities and promoting fairer development. the european union must not allow brexit to prevent this exemplary support for peace and social justice from being maintained. this intervention is also a model for other european regions which have experienced serious episodes of violence - such as the basque country - because, although the origin and development of the irish conflict and eta terrorism are not comparable, some of their consequences are. taking advantage of the experiences promoted by the european union and the recognition derived from them is very useful to solve problems of coexistence and values on which the basques want to continue working well accompanied.
in writing. in recent times, social awareness of sexual and psychological harassment at work has increased considerably. successful campaigns, like #metoo, have focused on female victims, but we shouldn't assume that perpetrators of harassment are always men or that victims are always women. international evidence shows that the percentage of male victims of harassment is not trivial and very likely exceeds 10% (for example, 17% of complaints collected by the us equal employment opportunity commission are men; and, according to a french survey cited by the ilo, 8% of women and 7% of men reported harassment at work). experts also point out that male victims of harassment tend to report their experiences less due to social stereotypes, and that studies focusing on male victimization are lacking. the positive change in social attitudes towards less tolerance for harassment and greater recognition of women's rights should be harnessed to extend recognition to all victims regardless of gender or sexual orientation. i regret that this report ignores the issue of male victimization.
mr president, madam commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. europe has been making a special effort to have a stable and secure financial sector for a number of years now. the crisis reminded us that banks and financial institutions were poorly regulated and poorly supervised. europe has been working for years to have a robust financial system that can provide services to consumers and is also particularly stable. and so it is very important that those financial institutions which provide services to the european market comply with equivalent regulation, with controls which can be compatible with european regulation. and that is why we have systems of equivalence. equivalence systems which are managed by the commission but which have to be more transparent; there has to be more stringent control by the european parliament and, moreover, the model has to be revised because in the coming months we will have to negotiate a future agreement with the united kingdom, which also makes it particularly important. i want to congratulate mr hayes on his work and this house on a very important report which will be voted on tomorrow.
i congratulate the rapporteur on her report. the recognition by the european institutions of languages such as galician and the languages of the peoples who make up the plurinational reality of some member states is fundamental and cannot depend solely on the decisions of the states which also oppress us as peoples. the situation in my country is very serious. only 30% of people aged 15 to 19 speak galician, compared to 75% of people over 75. furthermore, galician accounts for less than 0.01% of web content. in the digital age, galician must be present on the net on equal terms, to allow galician speakers to navigate the net with complete normality in galician. i will support the report and we call on the commission to implement the measures necessary to implement it. i ask this parliament to provide the means for each and every one of us to be able to express ourselves in parliament in our own languages, which are called 'minority' languages, but which are in reality hidden languages that have been diminished by the imposition of force over centuries to make them predominant.
mr president, on 27 august the danish company vestas announced the closure of its plant in villadangos del páramo. i am talking about the elimination of 500 direct jobs and 2,000 indirect jobs. the closure is a blow to a region in león whose economy and employment are largely dependent on the plant. in addition, the region is severely affected by ageing and depopulation. vestas has benefited from public aid through the erdf. the closure and transfer of production to non-community countries involves the fraudulent use of these 13 million eu funds. and the union must monitor, sanction and require the repayment of the subsidies. it is vital to guarantee jobs linked to production. any solution must involve an agreement with the workers which does not undermine their employment, pay and geographical situation. we reject the ere as unlawful. and we will also ask the commission to refer this repeated situation to the court of justice of the european union. vestas cannot and should not be closed, mr president.
mr president, i said that europe is a road: whether it is the roman roads, the pilgrimage routes or the cultural routes, but also the digital networks and the railways. i therefore welcome the european commission's decision to include asturias, albeit with some delay, in the transeuropean transport networks, in the atlantic corridor. i would therefore ask this house and the council to consider this position quickly, because we need to include the whole of north-west spain in the heart of europe and also to build a bridge to the atlantic world. with the unanimous voice of a small region, asturias, i ask you to allow us to build that europe of all that civil society is asking very actively in my small region, in my beloved asturias.
mr president, spain is an exception in europe. it is the only european country which has not yet been able to judge its dictatorship. after 40 years of democracy, francoism has still not been able to be judged in our country. we are an exception in europe, because we are the second country in the world with the highest number of disappeared people in our ditches, as in the mass graves of paterna that we were able to visit last friday; an exception in europe because we have not been able to judge our torturers, who walk our streets with medals. we don't want them to lose their medals. we want them to be judged. we want, after forty years of democracy, to see francoism brought to justice in our country; we want forty years of democracy to serve not only to remove franco from the valley of the fallen, but above all to remove francoism from our institutions.
mr president, commissioner creţu, yesterday there were parliamentary elections in an important country of the european union: sweden. once again, dominated by a subject that is no secret to anyone: migration. the same thing happened in the austrian elections, the french elections, the german elections, the italian elections, but above all they were dominated by a defect in european policy in a matter which requires 'europe' like no other, even more than the euro or foreign policy. because the euro is not the currency of all the member states of the european union, and foreign policy is not structured cooperation in which all the member states participate. on the other hand, the concern about migration is, but it is mainly due to the lack of a european response. firstly, to change the european union's negative view of the migration phenomenon, thinking in a dystopian way that zero migration can be achieved by denying the phenomenon or closing the floodgates. but secondly, we must change the non-european outlook, which refuses to share responsibility. it is therefore still urgent for the council to unblock the dublin regulation and establish a channel, a shared responsibility and the humanitarian visa channel so that those trying to reach the european union do not lose their lives in the attempt.
prime minister of greece. mr president of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, dear friends, thank you very much for the honourable invitation to share with the european parliament my thoughts and concerns about the future of europe and to discuss them with you. it is important and symbolic that this opportunity is being given to me only a few days after the end of a great adventure, after the end of the memoranda and the clean exit of greece from the support programmes after eight whole years. the last time i had the honour of addressing you, greece was in a great whirlwind. the deficit policy, the squandering of public money and the widespread corruption of previous governments had brought my country to the brink of bankruptcy. but at the same time, the failure of the institutions to prioritize the necessary structural reforms in the first two programmes, coupled with the obsession of some of them with a recipe for extreme fiscal adjustment, had brought the country to the brink of social suffocation, economic suffocation and social explosion. from 2010 to 2014, greece lost a quarter of its national wealth. unemployment, poverty, social exclusion have skyrocketed, and so has the public debt. foreign investment has been wiped out, young scientists have left the country by the thousands. the economic crisis in greece and the failure to manage it had, however, also turned into a political crisis in europe. and when i spoke before you, you will remember that half of you applauded me, the other half disapproved, but very few, very few, were among you who thought i had any hope of succeeding. and yet greece has succeeded! three years later, it's a different country. from being part of the problem, from being the source of the crisis, it has become part of the solution for europe. the clean exit from the last three-year programme is a success, first and foremost, of the greek people, who gritted their teeth and fought, who made great sacrifices to keep the country at the heart of europe. but it is also a success for europe as a whole, which has shown that in a spirit of solidarity and cooperation it is possible to overcome crises. we come out of this adventure stronger. today we are standing again and looking to the future with optimism because, for the first time since the crisis broke out, the sacrifices of the greek people have been made. we were cleaning up the public finances. we have made deep cuts and reforms that should have been made decades ago. we have broken out of the downward spiral and put the economy back on a growth path. we have moved forward with projects and investments that make greece a commercial, transit and energy hub in the wider region, but, at the same time, we have proved that there is a way out of the crisis without breaking the social fabric. we supported the weakest. we stopped the humanitarian crisis. we've given millions of uninsured access to the health care system. but at the same time, we have achieved primary surpluses, which, three years ago, no one would have believed, because we have controlled rampant tax evasion, we have stopped waste and party corruption in public health and public procurement, because we have made major reforms, such as the integration of social security funds and the rationalization of the social security system. and today, not only have we gotten out of the memoranda, but with the sustainable regulation of public debt, we are regaining our economic sovereignty and regaining our rightful place in the european process. last year greece returned to growth with forecasts even for this year approaching growth of close to 2.5%. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. while also in 2017, we were the second country to absorb funds from the juncker plan, while foreign investment reached 3.6 billion euros, which is the highest return in the last decade. in three years, we've reduced unemployment by over 7%. we have created more than three hundred thousand new jobs. we supported public hospitals. we've implemented a comprehensive public primary health care system, while drastically reducing the organic gaps in schools and increasing spending on scientific research to 1% of gdp. at the same time, we are striving to turn 'brain drain' into 'brain gain' by encouraging young entrepreneurship. we have also introduced the social solidarity income, the greek version of the minimum guaranteed income, which is now used by more than 650 000 citizens. we are reducing poverty and social exclusion, creating a web of social policies that protect the most vulnerable. the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the european union, and it has been a key player in the development of the european union. for the first time, we are granting citizenship to second-generation immigrants who were born and raised in greece. we have filed for legal gender recognition, as well as a cohabitation agreement and adoption for gay couples. we have abolished the mandatory application of sharia law to the muslim minority, and finally, after years, we are completing the construction of a muslim mosque in athens. moreover, in a europe where racism and xenophobia are rife, greece has done the most it could to manage the huge refugee flows in terms of humanity and protection of international law. while other countries were unilaterally violating european decisions and erecting fences, economically battered greece resisted the sirens of hatred. local communities gave lessons in humanity and civil society was effectively mobilised in cooperation with the state, the european union and international organisations. today, the asylum service, which did not even exist five years ago, handles the largest number of applicants in europe in relation to population. at the same time, greece, with its important geopolitical position, is making a decisive contribution to peace and stability in a wider destabilised region. despite all the problems of instability and nationalist upheaval in turkey, we have kept channels of communication open, preserving peace in the aegean, promoting cooperative solutions to the refugee problem, initiating talks for a just and sustainable solution to the cyprus problem. in the destabilised region of the eastern mediterranean, we are, together with cyprus, the only european pillar of stability. we are expanding multilateral cooperation with egypt, israel, palestine and jordan and at the same time deepening balkan cooperation and co-development, thus unlocking the european perspective of the balkan states, culminating in the historic prespes agreement with our northern neighbour and the ongoing dialogue with albania. after 26 years of destructive domination by nationalism, we have managed with the prime minister of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, zoran zaev, to turn the page and reach a mutually acceptable agreement without the use of force, but on the basis of diplomacy and dialogue. an agreement that could be a model for dispute resolution in our region. ladies and gentlemen, i would like to point out the following: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary discipline is maintained. on the contrary, we are determined not to repeat the mistakes and behaviours that led to the crisis. the end of the memoranda does not constitute a return to the past, but a historical break with the past. it is a new principle that embodies stability and security. it heals wounds. it is gradually correcting injustices and opening up new prospects for development for our people and our land. in the coming period, i want to assure you that we will continue the reform effort, emphasizing further rationalization of the functioning of the state, the modernization of public administration, the fight against bureaucracy, the deepening of democratic sectors through the upcoming constitutional revision. we will continue to pursue the path of budgetary balance, while at the same time giving priority to fair growth and the protection of employment. greece and the greeks have shown in recent years how deeply committed they are to the idea of european integration, enduring and insisting on the european path of the country, even when europe itself or even its dominant expression has often hurt and underestimated the greek people. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the stakes for europe today are, i would say, existential. the current management of the economic crisis, the refugee crisis and the security crisis has revealed huge gaps and contradictions and tends to turn all these crises into a structural crisis of the european project. the european union must be able to respond to the challenges of the present with a democratic and effective approach, and this will inevitably lead to the triumph of chauvinism and the revival of nationalist rivalries. it will make it a fragmented continent without unity, without cohesion, without an international role and perspective. during the economic crisis, the european union, instead of becoming more democratic, using whatever institutional political tools the lisbon treaty gave it, became more technocratic and ethnocentric, with the crucial decisions unfortunately being taken behind closed doors by informal institutions that are not accountable to european citizens and keep citizens away from the union and by technocratic schemes, such as the troika, holding the keys to economic sovereignty and accountability to no one. the european commission, the european parliament and even the european council have been relegated to a secondary role behind the institutionally unenforceable eurogroup and the technocratic echelons of the european central bank and the international monetary fund. the budgetary fetish in the management of the economic crisis has further widened socioeconomic disparities both between and within member states. it has empowered large social strata and caused even greater economic insecurity and fear among our citizens. this failure of neoliberal crisis management is ultimately what feeds the monster of chauvinism and far-right populism. it has taken the far right from the dock of history and from isolation to the political stage. the refugee crisis that followed only confirmed europe's inability to move forward when a large part of its members do not embrace its founding values, when the logic of isolationism prevails over cooperation, the logic of 'everyone is on their own' over burden-sharing, the logic of national redistribution over european solidarity, when the poison of hatred and xenophobia is, unfortunately, springing up again in the heart of europe more than seventy years after the human tragedy of fascism. because today we are not only facing the electoral rise of some extreme forces of the nationalist and populist far right, but we are facing the infiltration of its xenophobic and chauvinist agenda within the democratic political spectrum, where racism and xenophobia become the hegemonic political discourse in traditional conservative forces and beyond, shaping the relationships in countries critical to europe. the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration. some of you in 2015 were afraid of syriza and the left that demanded and demands a better europe. you believed that anyone who questioned today's europe of neoliberal hegemony and social inequalities was a danger to our common fabric. today, those of you who believed that, you have to admit that you fell out. if anyone is really threatening europe, it is not those who are fighting to change it, but those who are fighting to abolish it. the european parliament has always been a party to the treaty of rome, and it has always been a party to the treaty of rome. the european parliament has been a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe, and it is a great help to the people of europe. we must not allow the european idea to be crushed between the disastrous neoliberalism and the nightmarish far right. we must respond decisively that the only way to save european integration is to upgrade it with bold reforms of democracy, transparency and justice. we must support the prospect of a better europe with european solutions to european challenges, to refugees and migration, to climate change, to security, to democratic reform of the eurozone, to hope overcoming fear on the far right. what we need in europe today is not less solidarity and more borders but a new social contract for the social cohesion and prosperity of our peoples, deeper political integration, a stronger parliament and stronger european institutions with democratic and social control. what we need is not a new priesthood of austerity and discipline but a growth-oriented eurozone with mechanisms to balance inequalities; a multiannual fiscal framework that supports social cohesion and convergence; a legally binding european pillar of social rights; the revision of the common european asylum system with fair burden-sharing; a common european protection policy mechanism to deal with natural disasters; the promotion of dialogue and turkey's integration path in order to respect international law and return the country to major democratic reforms; a european external policy that will contribute to the resolution of internal crises. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to conclude by saying that in the last three years greece has managed to become part of the solution for europe, rather than part of the problem. it has overcome the economic crisis, it has borne with dignity this great refugee crisis on behalf of the whole of europe. it has opened the way to friendship between peoples with a steadfastly peace-loving foreign policy which has made it a factor of cooperation and stability in a wider region of instability in the south-eastern mediterranean and the balkans. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. we showed that there is a way, if you believe in it and fight hard for it. i believe that this is the way forward for europe. we have hard battles ahead of us. the european parliament has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. it will be a political battle of principles and values to defeat the extreme neoliberalism and the extreme right-wing populism that threaten europe. to raise the level of the european idea, to strengthen the unity and solidarity of the peoples of europe. in this battle, all progressive, democratic and pro-european forces have a duty to be on the same side of history and not to let europe fall backwards.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of president juncker, who is preparing the state of the union address that he will deliver tomorrow to this house, i am delighted to take part in this debate on the future of europe, in the presence of prime minister alexis tsipras. i have had the opportunity to work closely with prime minister tsipras over the past few years. most recently, we had a very good exchange on greece and the future of europe when i visited athens in june. before i turn to our debate, let me first express our deep sympathy and solidarity to those affected by the terrible forest fires. the commission stands by your side, prime minister, and we must make sure that such tragedies are never repeated. greece, its people and greek civilisation have shaped europe and its underlying values. one can safely say that the greeks invented democracy and, above all, they knew how to defend it when it was under threat. this allowed their country to join the european union after enduring a terrible dictatorship, thus proving that the future belongs to those who have the courage not to succumb to resignation, and the determination to face up to difficulties and take their fate into their own hands. yes, the future belongs to those who choose to be architects of history. greece is not only of historic importance to europe, but it is also important to the future of europe. it is impossible to imagine the future of europe without greece’s contribution. i am thinking in particular of its vital role in the stability of the western balkans, a region with a turbulent history, which needs firm reassurance about the prospect of eu membership in order to avoid a repetition of the tragedies we witnessed in the 1990s. and i would like once again to pay tribute to the courage and leadership of prime ministers tsipras and zaev, who have acted in a spirit of openness and compromise in order to break a long-standing deadlock that served the interests of neither country. (applause) they have set an example for the whole region and the wider world. i am also thinking of the future of our economic and monetary union and the harsh lessons which, together, we had to learn from the crisis of the last ten years that hit greece so hard. although others took a different view, the commission has always believed that greece has its rightful place in the euro area. i would like to pay tribute to the unprecedented efforts that have been made by the greek people to maintain greece’s rightful place at the heart of the european union. this summer greece has turned a new page. it has brought the stability programme to a successful close: it has put its public finances in order and even exceeded its budgetary targets. its economy is on the rise: this year and next it is set to grow by 2%. unemployment has already fallen sharply, although it remains unacceptably high. over 100 000 new jobs have been created since the stability programme began. the credit for this achievement is shared between the greeks and their european partners. it is a product of europe’s recipe for success, which combines solidarity with responsibility. the solidarity shown by the european partners has been unprecedented – both in terms of financial assistance and in terms of support for reforms. the people of greece have been strong in assuming their responsibility. their efforts and sacrifices have laid the basis for this sustainable upturn. these are solid foundations on which greece can now build. yet, there are still economic challenges to overcome. the best investment that greece can now make is to build confidence in its economy. that requires staying the course of responsible fiscal policies and reforms. this is the way to ensure long-lasting economic growth and a constant improvement of living conditions for the greek people. in such a case, i do not exclude the possibility of the greek economy surprising us on the upside. when i see the courage and determination which the greek people have already shown, i am confident that they will succeed. and greece can continue to rely on the solidarity of its european partners. in our union, responsibility and solidarity go hand in hand. we proved as much when we drew lessons from the crisis and made our common currency more crisis-resistant. in order to arm ourselves better to face future challenges, we must take the necessary steps to complete our economic and monetary union. the commission’s roadmap is clear, its agenda is well-known – and this is an urgent priority for the autumn. we are finally making progress to complete our banking union and i trust we can move swiftly towards a real capital markets union. the example of greece shows that we can overcome problems when we join forces. the euro area has emerged from the crisis united and stronger because we chose common european solutions. as we look to the future of europe, we must apply this spirit of finding common solutions to common challenges right across the board. this is what being part of the union means: working together to address the issues affecting us all. managing migration is one such common european challenge – it is not the responsibility of only one member state or another. that is why we stood side-by-side with greece when it mattered most. thanks to the eu-turkey statement, arrivals are now down by 97% in the eastern mediterranean. we backed up our action with the financial resources to match, with greece receiving a total of eur 1.6 billion of eu funds to address migration challenges. and we set up a european border and coast guard to make our borders more secure. we now have more than 1 600 officers across europe, including 662 officers in greece, at the borders with turkey, albania and the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. the decisive action taken by the european union has worked. but we can and must do more. together, it is time that member states agreed on a long-term solution covering all elements of migration, to help us balance solidarity and responsibility. there would be no stronger or more tangible proof to europeans that the union will deliver on its promises and stay united on the things that matter the most. i believe that to achieve this we should look to the teachings of one of europe’s, and greece’s, greatest minds, namely aristotle. he taught that virtue is the middle between extremes; that understanding and compassion are central to the way a society works; and that we are all, above all else, social beings. in our long and often tragic history, we can see the damage wrought when we lose sight of this humanism. so the lesson for our future is simple. we must never lose sight of what binds us together: the values that we share; the living together in a society that we hold dear; and the compassion and solidarity that we show each other. that is what our union is built on, and that is what our future must be built on. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, mr prime minister, i too speak a southern language, with a southern accent and southern pain. the last time we had the good fortune to hear from him was in july 2015. you look very different. you entered and left this chamber to the applause of the populists and the europe-haters. you will remember it perfectly, and so will we. today, when he came in, we all applauded him. greece was then in the midst of an unprecedented economic and social crisis. it was a country on the brink of eviction. you remember it perfectly, and so do we. we europeans stood by them, we stood by the greeks when they needed us, we stood by the greeks when the financial markets shut off the money to their government. when the rest of the world turned its back on the greek people, their european family reached out to them. and together we made it through. we did it together. it wasn't easy, but we did it together. you'll remember it perfectly, and so will we. i will not be the one to take credit for your government, mr tsipras. your government has been an indispensable and necessary actor, as was that of president samaras. but your speech today - let me tell you - has sinned in triumphalism and personalism. and he has omitted, whether accidentally or intentionally, some of the obscurities that still weigh on his management. the greek exit from the bailout programme is a success that we all applaud, but if anyone deserves to be applauded, it is not their government, it is the greek citizens, because they have suffered and fought more than anyone else to take their country forward. the greeks are admirable, and their pain has been admirable. i have heard you speak of the merits of your government, but i have not heard you speak of the merits of your people, i have not heard you speak of the merits of the greek citizens. greek citizens voted to remain in europe and in the euro, while some of their ministers fought against windmills. i'm sure you still remember it, and so do we. the success story you have told us today about greece is incomplete if we omit the european contribution, not that of governments and institutions, but that of the european citizens. you have today tried to confuse the european union with neoliberalism, with the troika, with speculators, with money-mongers. and yet this european union, which you say has become more technocratic and more nationalist, has been the salvation of your government and the salvation of your country. you have been so critical of the stability policies in your party that you should acknowledge that it is thanks to the stability policies that countries such as greece, portugal, spain and ireland are now emerging from the crisis. they're not worse, they're better than they were economically and socially. you know that it was not the europe of banks and corporations that pulled greece out of the abyss, mr tsipras, but the europe of taxpayers, who get up every morning to go to work. it is the savings of pensioners, wage earners and small businessmen across europe that have made greece's bailout possible. i'm sure you remember it perfectly, and so do we. europe is not just a market. europe is values and principles, it is commitment to democracy, justice and the rule of law. europe is solidarity, it is understanding, it is support, it is helping each other when we need it and not throwing stones at the glass ceiling, as should be the case with the migrant crisis, not only in greece but in all the southern states, as happened this summer when the fires ravaged greece, and the greek people had all our solidarity. europe, mr tsipras, is about honouring our word, about sitting down at the same table, about seeing each other as allies and friends, never as enemies. the opposite of what your government did at the beginning of its mandate, when you were here - you will remember and we remember too - when you wasted precious time criticizing the european family and indulging in the worst kind of economic populism. you will remember that 100 billion euros were lost because of the irresponsibility of your minister, mr varoufakis, your famous star minister. you remember him, surely, and so do we. fortunately, that's in the past. i see you have changed, mr. tsipras, very much, and i am glad. positive steps have been taken, but there is still a long way to go and some doubts to be cleared up. we are concerned that, almost a month after leaving the bailout program, markets are still distrustful of your economic policies. you understand that we're concerned. we are concerned that growth will continue to stagnate and that the forecasts are not very optimistic, and you understand that we are concerned. we are concerned that there are still hints of patronage in greek public procurement, and you understand our concern. we are concerned that almost half a million young greeks have had to leave greece, and you will understand our concern. we are concerned that the upcoming elections will change his political style and that his return to the opposition will mean for his party a return to populism. and understand that we care, because we, as we've already shown you, are your family. there are many lessons to be learned from the crisis, mr tsipras. we know that there are things that could have been done better and things that perhaps should not have been done. you now have two options: continue on the path of reforms you have just embarked on or return to populism and radicalism. it's in your hands, and we hope for the best from you and your government. you were wrong in 2015 when you were here, as time and facts have shown. i trust you'll know how to choose the right option this time. because populism is neither right-wing nor left-wing, it is populism and always will be. remember one thing: the far right is just as dangerous as the far left, at least for the democrats. i hope you remember, because we're not gonna forget.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have the impression that we are discussing greece, not the future of the european union. and speaking of the future of the european union, we would have liked mr gonzález pons to have told us, instead of attacking greece so much, whether they are going to ally themselves with the populists of orban and salvini in the next elections. but in any case, ladies and gentlemen, i want to express my solidarity with the greek people in the wake of what happened this summer with the fires. what has happened this year in greece, and last year in portugal and spain, shows us that the european union must take a leadership role in the face of the challenge of climate change. climate change has a lot to do with what's happened. and, ladies and gentlemen, i am beginning to get the impression - after what i am beginning to hear in france, germany, etc. - that we do not have a priority agenda for reducing emissions and being more effective in this european leadership in the fight against climate change. we have an opportunity and it's a great challenge that humanity has.
mr president, mr prime minister tsipras, we have heard you harshly criticize austerity, and i want to tell you that you have never been alone, that there have been many of us who, throughout the crisis, have denounced the failure of austerity. it is not a mistake or an accident, but an example of political and ideological imposition, of a pernicious set of accounts against the social model, and which has had the effect of impoverishing the middle classes and exacerbating inequalities, but above all of weakening the public power to respond to need and reality, such as the fires in greece or the increase in the flow of migration. greece, italy, spain. so the lesson is clear, mr tsipras: we must seek alliances. look for alliances portugal, spain not only to change the economic policy that has failed, but to change this negative view of immigration, which is also destined to fail, and replace it once and for all with a humanitarian vision, of common and shared responsibility for migration flows and care for refugees.
mr president, no woman in this house will be surprised if i say that i have been harassed and that, like me, 55% of women in the european union have been sexually harassed at some point in their work, in public spaces or in political life. sexual violence and harassment have become visible thanks to big feminist mobilizations like #metoo or the mass demonstrations of march 8, and we have to celebrate that today those feminist demonstrations have been able to reach this house. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it represents an important milestone in the establishment of measures to prevent and combat sexual and psychological harassment in the workplace, in public spaces and in political life in the european union. but the most important thing is that the legislation that exists is complied with. i have supported those elements in the report which i consider most relevant, such as considering sexual harassment as a human rights violation linked to patriarchal power structures; ratification and full implementation of the istanbul convention in all member states; removing obstacles and helping women to report; tightening sanctions; mandatory training for politicians, etc. because we all want to walk fearlessly in the streets, to enjoy the same freedom and peace of mind as men in the workplace and to exercise politics without having to play out in a hostile and sexist environment.
the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity. mr president, i was rapporteur for one of the opinions in the reporting procedure on the situation in hungary which was adopted by a broad consensus, mr orbán. some said we were feeding their victimhood, but turning a blind eye is feeding the degradation of the values that make the european union possible. in 2011, the venice commission already expressed concern about legislative reforms in hungary that threaten the rule of law as a democracy with separation of powers and an independent judiciary. this year's elections were held in a hostile and intimidating atmosphere, according to the osce. the basic values of the european union protect citizens against the arbitrariness of state power. hungary has been a member of the european union since 2004. when it was joined it was a collective effort of hungarians of different beliefs, realities and backgrounds. your government is knowingly turning its back on state neutrality. freedom of conscience, freedom of worship, the right to disagree is something we learned in europe painfully in the last century, mr orbán. i think that the application of article 7 should be approved out of respect and admiration for your country. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, article 2 of the treaty on european union establishes equality between men and women as one of the fundamental values. not only is your government attacking the freedom of the professorship, but it is now considering eliminating gender studies from the university. we all know that education is one of the fundamental tools for creating more just, more free and more equal societies. gender equality must therefore be guaranteed throughout the european union. mr orbán, you are asking for your majority to be legitimized when you are not accepting the legitimacy of the majority in this european parliament. and he's come here defending himself, using the hungarian people as a shield. the european parliament has nothing against hungary. what he is against is governments like his dragging his people away from the fundamental principles and values of the european union. let us therefore work together to achieve a fairer and freer european and hungarian society on an equal footing.
mr president, prime minister orbán: "democracy" and "liberal". we have long since learned that when a democracy needs adjectives, it has ceased to be one. report against hungary: the council of europe, the commissioner for human rights, the venice commission, the osce and this european parliament are not expressing anything against hungary, but a red alert to the backsliding of the rule of law and the democratic quality imposed by the roll of their absolute majority in a succession of constitutional reforms against all the others. the restrictions on pluralism, the rights of women and minorities and the systematic and contemptuous breach of european law on migration and refugees require a response. and neither our voters, nor the european citizens - including the hungarian citizens - nor this european parliament can look the other way. you must vote yes to article 7 because democracy has never been, simply, majority rule. democracy is the guarantee of respect for minorities and fundamental rights against the tyrannical temptation of any majority.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the spanish delegation of the epp unequivocally supports this text and both the rapporteur's amendments and his mandate. we believe that they offer a pragmatic solution to the transfer of value and through their articulation minimise the possibility of unintended consequences. the text as a whole is fully consistent with existing copyright legislation and provides sufficient protections for rights holders, users and platforms alike. article 13 and all the recitals in the preamble to that article respond to a need in the sector. this will create a shared responsibility for all those who make protected content available to the public and which should therefore be governed by intellectual property rules. the liability exemption that platforms have enjoyed so far cannot be allowed any longer, is unacceptable and is abusive. as for the alternative amendments proposed by the rest - i say this with all due respect - they simply serve to reinforce injustice. due to the nature of such services, rightholders need a clear framework to determine that they are performing an act of communication to the public and are not protected by the limitations of the defence that the e-commerce directive has offered them so far. this is not good for anyone. it is disturbing that economic survival is increasingly dependent on a great seeker. we must therefore create a framework of conditions which will enable publishers to deal with this power in the same way. the introduction of at least a right of protection for publishers is inevitable.
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to acknowledge the work of mr brok. their report rightly recognises the historical links, the principles and the economic relationship, which is the most integrated in the world. however, the demographic, economic and political changes that have taken place have given rise to and facilitated the emergence of a whole series of countries which do not share our values or the way we resolve international crises and conflicts. it is therefore important that we are absolutely clear about the conclusions to be drawn. firstly, to strengthen our defence capability and our strategic autonomy, as the high representative has proposed; to defend our values with conviction in a world of great uncertainty; and to defend our interests, madam president, without any qualms, as happened at the recent washington summit. i believe that the relationship with the united states should be a strategic relationship, that transcends an administration. we must lay the foundations for the future, but we believe that the united states can best achieve its objectives by asserting itself, not against the european union, but with the european union.
madam president, i would like to congratulate elmar brok, first of all, on his work. this time it is not easy to report on eu-us relations, given the unpredictability and confusing - sometimes even negative - messages coming from washington. unfortunately, our differences in foreign policy are also increasing, and we do not like unilateral acts either. but the most important strategic relationship of the european union is the one we have with the united states. it would be a bad thing for europeans to abandon it or weaken it. we need a positive agenda to tackle together with our partners on the other side of the atlantic. for example - you have said so, madam high representative - security and the fight against terrorism. we must also find ways of reaching an understanding on trade, avoiding confrontation, and on the other hand, i repeat, we should try to create a kind of transatlantic political council; that would be very useful. the european union and the united states have to deal with a multipolar, complex, changing, globalised world. dialogue and coordination are essential. beyond the difficulties of the moment - and i will finish - there are many values, principles and interests which unite us as europeans and americans. the history of the last few decades shows the importance of this strategic relationship which we must preserve.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i absolutely share the approach taken by the high representative here and i also want, as always, to acknowledge the efforts she and her team are making in the task towards libya. actually, we didn't want to talk about libya as such today. this title is the product of a very complex negotiation with the political groups. we wanted to prepare the informal summit in salzburg to talk about migration, to talk about us, not to talk about them as if libya and the mediterranean had nothing to do with us. we say that there is a serious crisis in the mediterranean and in libya, a 'humanitarian' crisis, and we say that there is a serious political crisis in europe. we always like to talk about other people's crises much more than our own. but we are going to salzburg, and this parliament has not really been able to say what we think should be discussed in salzburg. and that is the crisis of europe. the crisis in europe is that it does not want to look at itself and always prefers to look outside. it is true that the mediterranean is producing fewer migrants, but it is also producing, however, more deaths. i mean, the central mediterranean route is still deadly, and that is what we should be talking about in this parliament. our responsibility for that reality.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mrs mogherini, i think we do not understand the contempt and resentment that they have in libya towards us, towards the west, for having imposed a puppet government, a non-existent person fayez al-sarrach with all the institutions, up to the council of state. when i hear about elections, electoral process, independent electoral commission... what are we talking about, if reality has blown us in the face? i've been saying for years that while we were making political fiction, there was a terrible reality in libya, and that reality has been the struggle between the militias, the gangsters paid by the ministry of defense and the ministry of interior. that's the reality: the people who control the territory. and the reality in libya is called the tubu council in the south, the tuareg council in the south; it's called the misrata militia, it's called the tripoli gangsters, it's called basically the khalifa haftar national army, which has been perfectly forgotten because the legality dictated that we had to deal with fayez al-sarrach. but legality is one thing and reality is another. so, for god's sake, let's get out of fictional politics, of election commissions, of electoral processes and deal with the real actors with respect. because, mrs mogherini, in libya they have a deep respect for us and they will never forget the damage we do by imposing on them, as westerners, solutions that are not their own; they are people who deserve respect, as we would have for ourselves, and they do not allow themselves to be protected by that vague, profuse and confusing thing called 'international legality', 'the international community', which has nothing to do with the reality of the libyan territory. let's see if we wake up.
madam president, we must certainly welcome the ceasefire agreed between the various forces under the auspices of the united nations special representative. it should be a step towards reducing the escalation of violence and contributing to the stability of the region. my concern is that a ceasefire alone is not enough. new security arrangements will be needed. to achieve this, political negotiations, which have been stalled for many months, must be resumed. the parties must be given a negotiating framework in which the military actors are represented; if this does not happen, we run the risk of fighting starting up again very soon. the aim should be to find a solution that would limit the control that militias exercise over the institutions. the difficulty is to get them and to be able to count on regular and neutral forces. it could be argued that instead of re-establishing areas of exclusive control of one militia or another, it should be done jointly so that no one has exclusive control of the institutions. it would be a temporary solution, under the auspices of the united nations, which should be accompanied by a road map seeking the progressive integration of the different forces into unified units. the libyan people deserve to live in peace, and we must continue to work towards a lasting solution to the political crisis in libya, which also affects the entire region.
madam president, i very much welcome this debate. i know that the bulgarian and austrian presidencies attach particular importance to the balkans, but the mediterranean is also a priority. these are our neighbours to the south, who have seen very important developments in the last decade. the presence and assistance of the european union are very much needed. i have seen it recently in tunisia, where i travelled with the committee on foreign affairs. libya has been in a very serious crisis for years. the political solution is delayed by internal clashes and divisions and also by the conflicting interests of other arab countries. the european union must continue to support the efforts of the united nations and the special representative for a political solution. unfortunately, the ceasefire reached in tripoli a few days ago is very precarious, very fragile: it seems to be blowing up. but there are also emergencies elsewhere, mrs mogherini, for example in syria, but i know that the european union is no longer a relevant actor there. others gather. i would like to conclude on a positive note: to stress the importance of our relations with morocco, a reformist and pro-european country.
madam president, today 100 more people died off the libyan coast. a hundred more people, that's fast. it would be chilling to know how many people have died since we have been discussing libya in this house. how many people have died, without our policies not only doing nothing to prevent it, but, usually, doing the opposite, just favoring those deaths? this summer the council discussed the possibility of giving more money to libyan armed gangs to act as coastguards - 5 billion to act as border police and the creation of detention centres paid for with european money which are real concentration camps. when that was being debated, i was at sea on a ship of those ngos that are criminalizing europe, with those rescued people who, if you could look them in the face, ladies and gentlemen, if you could look them in the face and hear their horror stories in libya, they would not be able to push the button to continue supporting these criminal policies that are turning the mediterranean into the world's biggest mass grave. our policies are staining our hands with blood. i would like to ask the commissioner to give us a clear answer to this question.
madam president, i am also very grateful to you for dealing with the problems of immigration very specifically, but at this point i would like to thank the high representative for her unremitting work and support for the libyans, because they deserve it just as much as the people who are forced to go through libya, who suffer with the libyans. i think that is what we are saying every time we make a speech in this house, and while mr urban was at sea with the ngos - which we have also proposed for the sakharov prize - we were entering tripoli precisely to demonstrate not only that the centres had to be closed, but that iom and unhcr had to be supported in helping migrants to leave voluntarily, that there was an agreement signed with niger but that the member states are not fulfilling their obligations when it comes to taking out those who cannot even ask to return to their places of origin. and so i think it's important that the libyan voice is heard in this speech as well, because we saw that the small steps, the small steps policy that may seem to some criminal, is the opposite: that is, you can't change everything, but the fact that the coastguards are framed through lifelong training, makes it possible for the ngos to be able to receive, disembark and give them a kit and register the people who return. i mean, that's a possible approach. we were also able to visit the centres and verify and support those people who should (and could) return. and, furthermore, the libyans, those who can and who are talking to us and with whom we had the opportunity to talk, also told us that they needed the european union to be able to have a stronger approach; not just of observation, which we know is our role right now, but to go a step further and have a mediation role. they're asking us to. i think that the ceasefire agreement is very fragile, it has been broken again in recent days; but still the words that are collected, the nerve centres and the obligations imposed on the armed groups, which are now the ones who rule - among other things also because they are looking ahead to their future location - all of them are calling for more european policy, that european policy which, as mrs valenciano said, we need to have finally agreed in salzburg.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i assume that when mr preda speaks of residual aspects, he is thinking of the 180 inhabitants of this small village. of these 180 inhabitants, most are children and teenagers who are going to be expelled from their land, living in tents made of wood, with plastic, without water... precisely because the israeli authorities deny them the right to a half-decent life. they are victims of a perverse system in which the occupiers - the settlers - have all the facilities, and the occupied are forced to live in unbearable conditions. i assume mr preda is referring to this side-effect of human beings' lives, which, because they are few and weak, should not matter to us at all. what is the crime of these people? not one. they have done absolutely nothing, only disturbing israel's expansionist plans. and for us, the expulsion of the local population by the occupying force is a serious violation of human rights. for us and for international law, by the way. i mean, it's a violation of international law by israel. that's what we're talking about. it goes far beyond a specific situation of 180 specific people, of course, but for them alone it is worth making this statement. we share many values with israeli society and from that position we want to ask the israeli government to stop the demolition of the village of jan al-ahmar. it is a policy which is causing suffering to innocent people, on the basis of a flagrant breach of international law and respect for human rights. we respectfully ask the government of mr netanyahu to do so.
madam president, china's rise in the world is one of the most important developments of the last 30 years. the world scene has changed. europeans must maintain a constructive relationship with china, and that does not mean renouncing our values and interests or hiding our differences. china's collaboration is obviously very relevant to successfully tackling global challenges, for example, climate change. i am a little sceptical about the possibility of bilateral agreements to solve problems in africa or in african countries, those triangular agreements you mentioned, mrs mogherini. but, in the end, we are in a world in which economic and trade relations have become globalized, and this economic opening up and the boost to trade have enabled china's great economic and social development; but we are also a great exporting power, and many jobs in europe - i always say this - depend on our ability to penetrate trade, including in the chinese space. that is why we should try to find solutions to our trade differences while avoiding dumping. i would also stress - and i will conclude - the need to conclude the bilateral investment agreement. i think it is essential to seek that balanced playing field for reciprocal investment, and i hope that the impetus given by the recent summit on 16 july will allow for a speedy conclusion.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner moscovici, at this late hour of the night and probably until after midnight, this parliament is finally debating legislative acts. european legislation. firstly, a regulation a directly binding rule on cash control at borders, which is part of the set of initiatives adopted by the european commission to respond to the counter-terrorism security emergency that took place, especially throughout 2016, after the terrible terrorist attacks that swept and devastated europe in 2015. it is indeed a regulation on which mrs delvaux and i have worked together as rapporteur for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, and i am grateful for all the cooperation throughout this period and also for the willingness to meet with the council, which has not exactly been available for any legislative commitment with the european parliament during this term. but here it has been possible, as in the directive on combating money laundering by means of european criminal law, which we shall discuss immediately afterwards. this initiative aims to strengthen europe's response capacity in the area of money laundering, illicit capital flows and asset freezing and confiscation. it does so through a regulation which is part of the fight against transnational economic fraud, money laundering and, in particular, the financing of terrorism. the purpose is to provide a legal basis (article 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in conjunction with article 33) for the strengthening of customs cooperation between member states and the commission in the field of cash control. with a legislative background, 2005, a regulation that established at the time the control of metal "cash" up to an amount of 10 000 euros, but with clear defects that we are now correcting. firstly, there is an incomplete coverage of crossborder cash movements. it is a question of completing a full declaration and of ensuring that criminals who send money in cash or use employment methods know that these funds will be better and more effectively controlled from now on. secondly, the difficulties in the exchange of information between member states' authorities, because until now there was an obligation to make available to a financial intelligence unit of a state nature, but from now on there will be an active obligation - not just the making available - to transmit that information. thirdly, to take account of the fact that the competent authorities were unable to temporarily withhold cash that reached the threshold. fourthly, the definition of cash, which includes not only the amount of liquid money but also other highly liquid commodities such as gold; information can therefore also be transmitted at the border entry. and fifthly, to respond to the great disparity in the penalties applied by the member states, the heterogeneity in the levels of enforcement. in this report we have tried to take account of all these elements and, in addition, we have tried to ensure that the cash declaration is completed regardless of whether travellers bring the money in person or send it by any other means of transport, which is called unaccompanied cash, with a disclosure declaration. member states' authorities should exchange all information where there are indications that this cash is related to any criminal activity that may adversely affect the financial interests of the european union and should transmit this information to the european commission. customs administrations have a leading role in this front line. we have not succeeded in establishing a european financial intelligence unit, but we have succeeded in establishing a strong review clause which gives the commission the task of responding to this request from the european parliament for the establishment of a european financial intelligence unit. and finally, the efforts of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs have also aimed at ensuring that this european legislation, which is directly binding on the member states and which can be invoked by citizens in court, respects european data protection law, because we have a general data protection regulation which must be consistent and which must inspire, as the european data protection supervisor has indicated, all european legislation. we are putting it in connection with the european criminal law case against money laundering which we shall discuss immediately afterwards. we are making progress and i can only welcome the exercise of parliamentary cooperation and the willingness to reach an understanding with the council on this point - at least on this point.
the rapporteur. madam president, i just want to reiterate my thanks for this cooperation exercise which allows us to give the green light to european legislation that strengthens our capacity against money laundering, organised crime and the financing of terrorism. i have had the honour of being the minister of justice of spain, a country which has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and the same sensitivity with which i understand that security is a fundamental right of europeans has led me to stress the importance of the compatibility of this european legislation and the directive on combating money laundering by criminal law, which is discussed immediately afterwards, with fundamental rights and, in particular, with the limitation of the period of data retention. i would just like to regret that this legislative exercise, in which the european parliament and the council have finally reached an understanding, is about an initiative which emphasizes security, which is certainly a fundamental right, because the council has not sought any compromise with the european parliament on everything relating to the dublin regulation, the asylum package, the free movement of persons and so many important initiatives such as the dublin regulation and the visa code, which are pending unblocking by the council.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, money laundering is a criminal activity with multiple ramifications and dire consequences. we look at the impact of money laundering on our security, on the financing of terrorism or on organized crime. but these are not the only risks. often, the actors in these criminal activities are well-placed people. the fight against money laundering through the penal code is an essential tool to punish these practices and also to limit their spread. we have no doubt that the european dimension is an appropriate dimension in combination with the states, provided that they have the political will, which unfortunately they often lack. the european union must go on the offensive in this area; go beyond the fatf's own recommendations; establish mechanisms for evaluating and monitoring the measures agreed. for this reason, it is essential to harmonize legislation, so that these crimes associated with money laundering are punished with prison sentences which are also dissuasive. it is important that we do not lose this battle and that we work on it immediately.
madam president, mr juncker has enlightened us about the need to defend european values against chauvinist nationalism and i could not agree more, but i would like to make a suggestion to him. please, go to catalonia and visit our nine political prisoners, amongst them two former meps. please go and have a chat with them about their core values and the founding principles of the european union, and having spoken with them, ask yourself, ‘what are these democratic, peaceful, european people doing in jail?’ ask yourself if having politicians and civil society leaders in jail for nearly a year without trial, on the basis of fake accusations, just for having organised a referendum, just for having implemented a democratic mandate, if all of this is in line with european values. yesterday, over a million people were in barcelona again, claiming our democratic rights, standing up for european values and against repression. people are convinced, despite feeling let down by european institutions, that europe needs to be part of the solution.
madam president, mr juncker, i thank you for the equivalence between european patriotism and intelligent patriotism, and that is why i ask you to include the reform of the euro order in your programme. the list of offences included in the euro order has not changed in fifteen years, but the world has changed a lot in fifteen years. for example, we are not protected by the euro-order against cyberterrorism, not even against terrorist propaganda on the internet - which you mentioned - or the manipulation of election results - which you also mentioned. personal data are not protected by the euro order, and no country is protected against coup attempts. my country, spain, suffered an attempted coup d'état a year ago, but the spanish supreme court is not able to prosecute all those responsible because a regional court in another eu country has denied it that possibility. spain is not the only case where the euro order does not work. what message are we sending to the spanish? that europe does not protect the spanish constitution? without mutual trust, we cannot live without borders. without a working euro-order, we cannot live in schengen. if we want schengen to exist, we must also ensure that the euro-order exists. it is not sensible that schengen should be used to ensure that some countries close their borders to refugees and that other countries open their borders to criminals. it is no longer time to judge, no longer time to look at each other, no longer time to accuse or attack each other. if we want a truly united european union, it must also be a european union of justice.
madam president, i appreciate the space for self-criticism that mr juncker has used in his speech, recognising the problems facing the european project. in this time we have lacked the courage and the courage, we have lacked the leadership to hold the helm of the european union firmly and not allow it to drift. but despite some populists and the far right, europe is more alive than ever and more necessary also to meet the challenges. a strong europe that takes common positions and solidarity to face the challenge of immigration and to restore dignity to our project. a europe capable of translating economic growth into social justice and sharing, guaranteeing strong welfare states. a europe that is able to tackle climate change. a europe with a woman's face, which ends gender-based violence and is able to move towards more equal societies. in short, a europe that restores to us the pride of belonging to a space of coexistence and respect. a strong europe brings us all closer together.
madam president, mr. president, the alarms are going off. the european picture is not encouraging when the extreme right is growing, with xenophobic, nationalist and populist discourse that goes against the fundamental values of the european union. and i worry about the lack of a counter-speech. i worry more when words are not accompanied by deeds, or when we move forward at a snail's pace. we are defending cohesion, but we are giving too little or cutting back on the cap and cohesion policy. we advocate leading the fight against climate change, but this year emissions have increased, and the resources we're going to provide to fight climate change are healing. mr president, if we want to engage with european citizens, we must make the words correspond to the facts, we must make progress on equality and we must also make progress on the social pillar.
madam president, 11:50 strasbourg time, 10:45 in portugal, ireland or the canary islands. this should also be the time of the time zone in galicia. the proposal for a change in time put forward today by mr juncker is an opportunity for countries which have a time zone which is not adapted to the greenwich meridian. this time was proposed by francoism to adapt the time to nazi germany. it's time for a change. in galicia, the difference between the official time and the solar time is two and a half hours. this lag has consequences for my health and quality of life and also for my work. i sent the letter to commissioner juncker to explain this situation and to ask him to help rationalize the timetable in europe.
madam president, president juncker has expressed his love for european history. i share that, but i would have liked to have had more of the ninth symphony in his speech and less of beethoven's pathetic sonata, because you cannot propose new legislation when you have not been able to enforce the law in force, nor to ensure that legislation already in place finally sees the light of day. because the breakdown of mutual trust in the area of freedom, justice and security is what explains the failure of the euro order. but president juncker has also complained about the lack of legal means to deal with the migratory flows. and there are many of us in this parliament who have been working for the opening of legal channels, humanitarian visas. in the visa code, in the parliamentary report and in our resolutions we have insisted on the need for these legal channels without the support or commitment of the commission in the face of the council's resistance. that is why, before the commission of the last chance, the 2019 elections are an existential test so that neither nationalism nor europhobia can win due to the non-appearance of those we must avoid. the commission's responsibility is irrevocable.
in writing. no one questions the problems facing the european project. he lacked courage and courage. you've lacked the leadership to hold the helm tight and not let this ship drift. but the european union is still alive, and the european project is more necessary than ever to meet the challenges of globalisation. a strong european union, which takes common and united positions to face the challenge of immigration and refugees and thus restore dignity to our project. a european union capable of translating economic growth into social justice and sharing to end poverty and guarantee the welfare state. a european union that is a leader in the fight against climate change and in the modernisation of our production systems. a european union with a woman's face, ending gender-based violence and moving towards a more equal society. in short, a european union that will restore to us the pride of belonging to a space of encounter, respect and coexistence. let us not give up trying, because together we are better, because together we are stronger, because together we have a future.
in writing. no one questions the problems facing the european project. he lacked courage and courage. you've lacked the leadership to hold the helm tight and not let this ship drift. but the european union is still alive, and the european project is more necessary than ever to meet the challenges of globalisation. a strong european union, which takes common and united positions to face the challenge of immigration and refugees and thus restore dignity to our project. a european union capable of translating economic growth into social justice and sharing to end poverty and guarantee the welfare state. a european union that is a leader in the fight against climate change and in the modernisation of our production systems. a european union with a woman's face, ending gender-based violence and moving towards a more equal society. in short, a european union that will restore to us the pride of belonging to a space of encounter, respect and coexistence. let us not give up trying, because together we are better, because together we are stronger, because together we have a future.
in writing. no one questions the problems facing the european project. he lacked courage and courage. you've lacked the leadership to hold the helm tight and not let this ship drift. but the european union is still alive, and the european project is more necessary than ever to meet the challenges of globalisation. a strong european union, which takes common and united positions to face the challenge of immigration and refugees and thus restore dignity to our project. a european union capable of translating economic growth into social justice and sharing to end poverty and guarantee the welfare state. a european union that is a leader in the fight against climate change and in the modernisation of our production systems. a european union with a woman's face, ending gender-based violence and moving towards a more equal society. in short, a european union that will restore to us the pride of belonging to a space of encounter, respect and coexistence. let us not give up trying, because together we are better, because together we are stronger, because together we have a future.
in writing. no one questions the problems facing the european project. he lacked courage and courage. you've lacked the leadership to hold the helm tight and not let this ship drift. but the european union is still alive, and the european project is more necessary than ever to meet the challenges of globalisation. a strong european union, which takes common and united positions to face the challenge of immigration and refugees and thus restore dignity to our project. a european union capable of translating economic growth into social justice and sharing to end poverty and guarantee the welfare state. a european union that is a leader in the fight against climate change and in the modernisation of our production systems. a european union with a woman's face, ending gender-based violence and moving towards a more equal society. in short, a european union that will restore to us the pride of belonging to a space of encounter, respect and coexistence. let us not give up trying, because together we are better, because together we are stronger, because together we have a future.
in writing. no one questions the problems facing the european project. he lacked courage and courage. you've lacked the leadership to hold the helm tight and not let this ship drift. but the european union is still alive, and the european project is more necessary than ever to meet the challenges of globalisation. a strong european union, which takes common and united positions to face the challenge of immigration and refugees and thus restore dignity to our project. a european union capable of translating economic growth into social justice and sharing to end poverty and guarantee the welfare state. a european union that is a leader in the fight against climate change and in the modernisation of our production systems. a european union with a woman's face, ending gender-based violence and moving towards a more equal society. in short, a european union that will restore to us the pride of belonging to a space of encounter, respect and coexistence. let us not give up trying, because together we are better, because together we are stronger, because together we have a future.
in writing. no one questions the problems facing the european project. he lacked courage and courage. you've lacked the leadership to hold the helm tight and not let this ship drift. but the european union is still alive, and the european project is more necessary than ever to meet the challenges of globalisation. a strong european union, which takes common and united positions to face the challenge of immigration and refugees and thus restore dignity to our project. a european union capable of translating economic growth into social justice and sharing to end poverty and guarantee the welfare state. a european union that is a leader in the fight against climate change and in the modernisation of our production systems. a european union with a woman's face, ending gender-based violence and moving towards a more equal society. in short, a european union that will restore to us the pride of belonging to a space of encounter, respect and coexistence. let us not give up trying, because together we are better, because together we are stronger, because together we have a future.
in writing. no one questions the problems facing the european project. he lacked courage and courage. you've lacked the leadership to hold the helm tight and not let this ship drift. but the european union is still alive, and the european project is more necessary than ever to meet the challenges of globalisation. a strong european union, which takes common and united positions to face the challenge of immigration and refugees and thus restore dignity to our project. a european union capable of translating economic growth into social justice and sharing to end poverty and guarantee the welfare state. a european union that is a leader in the fight against climate change and in the modernisation of our production systems. a european union with a woman's face, ending gender-based violence and moving towards a more equal society. in short, a european union that will restore to us the pride of belonging to a space of encounter, respect and coexistence. let us not give up trying, because together we are better, because together we are stronger, because together we have a future.
i think, mr president, that the rapporteur for the ppe on this directive made it clear when he said that the adoption of this directive was a great step forward for the cultural industry. they tried to sell us that it was to protect creators, but no: it was to protect the industry, to protect it precisely against the right to information and against a free internet. at podemos we know that creators' rights are not sufficiently protected, and that is why we support creators' right to fair remuneration. but that doesn't have to go against the freedom of the internet. we consider freedom of expression and information to be a fundamental value of any democratic state. we therefore believe that the platforms cannot become arbiters of freedom of expression, as this directive that has been adopted today says. we will only have a critical society with a free and uncensored internet, where knowledge can be shared and the rights of creators and creators respected. today we took a step backwards in internet freedom.
mr president, we voted today against the authoritarian drift of the hungarian government and the attacks on the rule of law, on migrants, on women and minorities. the orbán government is one of the most racist and islamophobic in the european union and seriously violates human rights and international law. it should be remembered that mr orbán is a member of the european people's party and has often referred to the government of mariano rajoy as an example in europe. but we not only regret that the spanish people's party abstained, decided not to vote or even voted for orbán, but we also regret that the debate is often hypocritical, because many of the proposals on migration - those authoritarian proposals that it makes together with salvini - are often supported by the majority of this house, a house that disapproves of orbán but then practices his policies, buys the agenda from the right and above all from the european far right. it is essential to put a stop to orbán, but above all to put a stop to his policies.
on behalf of the green group, madam president, it is very important that we have this debate and, of course, that we move forward to the demographic challenges when we talk about the pension system. but the big problem with the public pension system is not the ageing of the population: it is precarious employment and it is the attacks on workers' rights that have caused contributions to fall very sharply and at the moment, indeed, some public pension systems are in difficulty. and of course it is a generational issue, but it is a generational issue because the precariousness of young people today puts at risk the pensions of today and tomorrow in many of our member states. that is the fundamental problem. what can the commission do? what he does not have to do is to send specific recommendations to countries like spain, criticizing very small and very low increases in pensions when there have been successive reforms in 2011 and 2013 to cut them even further. so strengthening pillar i and tackling precariousness in the labour market in particular in order to have good social security contributions is what the european union must do to have decent pensions now and in the future.
madam president, commissioner, you are creating a social alarm. redistribute wealth and ensure a decent pension is to contribute to not being socially excluded at the end of working life. make no mistake, it's not a demographic problem, it's not a problem of increasing the number of pensioners. the only thing that is endangering public pensions is a problem of focusing financial interest and economic policy in favour of austerity. there is a catch in the system because, first of all, the commission is helping to raise social awareness. then he enforces austerity policies so that governments, many of his own rank, carry out labor reforms and pension reforms. this social alarm is leading many people to the streets, as was the case with the coordinator for the defence of the public pension system in the spanish state of galicia, my country, who is working on this issue. finally, i would like to mention another problem: the average european effort to maintain the pension system is higher, for example, than the spanish average, which is the lowest in europe. in galicia in particular, much more, and in particular, in non-contributory pensions, especially.
madam president, pensions are not a gift: they are the result of years of contributions, they are workers' wages. when you talk about pensions, you propose extending working years and private schemes, like the pan-european pension product, which we totally reject. if public pension systems are at risk, it is because of their policy of reform and the limits on public pension spending, which stem from their unjust spending rule. it is important to remember that pensions are linked to employment, to good wages, to stability and to rights. that is why we must put an end to the precariousness, the temporariness, the zero-hour contracts suffered by young people. and we also have to close the gender pay gap. the reforms you have encouraged in the fields of employment and pensions must of course be reversed. so if you radically change your policies and your neoliberal agenda, you will see how you find positive solutions for the social majority and, above all, you will see how the workers will thank you and the far right will not continue to grow.
madam president, commissioner, i want to express my commitment to public, universal and dignified social security systems, which are expressions of intergenerational solidarity. the union's demographic decline is therefore threatening its viability. this is such a serious and obvious problem that it requires a smarter and more open immigration and integration policy for people who must be, for all intents and purposes, new europeans. precarious employment is the second greatest threat to social security. with temporary contracts and low wages, even if the number of people employed increases, the contributions will not be enough. the revision of the retirement age may be necessary, but the dignification of the conditions of employment is even more so. finally, it is urgent that social security systems be consistent with the mobility of workers that must operate in the union. and that requires taking seriously the establishment of minimum standards of coverage and efficient procedures for linking the systems of the different member states.
madam president, the objective of pension systems should be nothing other than to guarantee our elderly people adequate income levels, ensuring the overall economic sustainability of the system. clearly, employment is the best guarantee of achieving this. however, demographic change requires us to propose reforms to achieve this, reforms which should not be focused on a general tax increase, as this would have negative effects in the medium and long term on economic growth and job creation and would therefore have a negative impact on social security systems. we must move gradually towards a mixed system which ensures that current and future pensioners receive what they have contributed in their working lives and does not jeopardise the future rights of our young people. that is, combining a distribution pillar with a capitalisation pillar, in which what is received is linked to what is contributed and which can be complemented by private pension plans. this complementarity does not mean that the public sector is no longer needed, since its role is fundamental, above all, to meet the basic needs of those who have paid less or who have been unable to pay for various reasons. it is also important to underline the role of public systems in supporting widows, orphans and the disabled, and in supporting the elderly who need it most, in order to ensure a minimum income that avoids situations of risk of poverty or social exclusion. it means adapting to the present reality, looking to the future and being as fair as possible to our citizens.
madam president, a part of the european citizenry looks at retirement with fear and anxiety. they wonder whether they will be entitled to a benefit, whether this benefit will be miserable and whether they will be able to survive on it, or whether they will have enough strength to work all the years that today give access to pensions - by the way, more and more. and to respond to this anxiety and this fear the only answer can be the security, the guarantees and the protection of our public pension system: a well-endowed, well-guaranteed system that ensures that benefits are increasing at the same level as the cost of living and that ensures all our pensioners a life of dignity. and to reject outright any mechanism for privatising our pension systems, which have proved unfair and ineffective. but not just this. what we also need to do is to ensure a robust state, quality jobs and to combat inequality; also the gender gap. because these three issues - employment, state capacity and inequality - impact the sustainability and equity of our pension system.
madam president, from the white paper on pensions to the pan-european private pension product, all the commission's measures have been aimed at dismantling the public pension system. i do not want to say that pensions are not sustainable, but rather that pensions are essential to sustain life. today in spain, precisely where there have been two reforms to dismantle pensions - one in 2011 by the socialist party, and another in 2013 by the popular party - unfortunately 300 000 families live on the pensions of their grandparents, because while they have applied cuts, the welfare state has been dismantled, and working conditions, wages and employment have been devalued, it has been the pensioners who have borne the burden of the crisis on their backs. there are solutions: raising wages, fighting the wage gap, promoting stable employment, improving sources of finance, eliminating contribution ceilings for the highest wages. it's a matter of will and purpose. who are we with? are we with the financial institutions that want to make a business out of pensions or are we with the families that need them and deserve them?
madam president, a decent pension cannot depend on the individual savings capacity of each person. a decent pension must be guaranteed by public institutions. that is why i am calling on the commission, parliament and also the council to withdraw the pan-european product for individual pensions, and instead to get the three institutions to work on a new regulation that guarantees dignified public pensions and pension systems and measures so that the transition from working life to retirement does not mean entering poverty; that public budgets guarantee public pensions; the end of the gender gap in pensions, and also of people working in agriculture and at sea and the self-employed in general; to end - as i say - the inequality that will mean maintaining pensions through the pan-european products for private pensions.
in writing. it is our task to ensure that european citizens can look to the future with the peace of mind that the pension system they are in for will be sound, well-funded and will guarantee them decent pensions. pension funds in the global economy, in a 0% interest rate scenario, have a difficult task to secure future pensions, as their investments will be less and less profitable. who and how the rules of the game are set in the global economy will have a crucial impact on the future of pensions. privatization is not the answer to the sustainability of the pension system. private pension funds are risky financial products that are based on speculation. a robust, well-organised and well-managed public social security system is much safer and more economically efficient. the privatisation of pension systems not only fails to protect pensioners from the insolvency of the system, but increases the deficit of the states by diverting funds from the public to private pension funds.
madam president, commissioner jourová, this european parliament is never more parliamentary than when it legislates and certainly never more politically relevant than when it legislates on fundamental rights, because that is one of the assets of the lisbon treaty, which recognises the right to privacy in article 16 and its fundamental character in article 8 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. we took it very seriously in the previous parliament when we introduced the data protection regulation, which is a huge step forward, and the directive on law enforcement, police and judicial agencies, on the investigation of crimes and the clearance of their accounts. but it is also doing so now when it updates regulation (ec) no 45/2001 with a new one aimed at data processing in the european institutions. we celebrate it. we can only regret that there is no uniform treatment, that there are still a number of agencies which are not covered (eurojust or europol). but we have emphasised the strength of the european data protection supervisor to ensure very effective sanctions for breaches of this new right in force.
mr president, the scientific community agrees that the consumption of plastics is seriously endangering the environment, and you will have seen that in the summer. we may already have more plastic than tourists on our beaches. but it's more -- and now i'm serious -- if we don't do anything, according to the united nations, by 2050, there will be more plastic than fish in the sea. can you imagine that? i think it would be really terrible. it must be admitted that the commission's proposals on this matter are in the right direction, but we are late and therefore cannot be inadequate, as i fear we are. what is at stake here is a radical change in the way we produce and therefore also consume, putting at the centre, first, the drastic reduction of plastics, reuse and, ultimately, recycling. i mean, it's not just about creating - and i say "just" new materials or advertising campaigns for recycling only, but it's about telling markets, companies, that images like this of fruit wrapped in plastic, which you will recognize, no longer have meaning or place. and to do that, plastic producers and lobbyists must be left out of future decision-making.
madam president, i would like to congratulate mr demesmaeker on this report on european plastic policy, because we are facing an opportunity which must not be wasted. the citizens of the union are becoming increasingly aware of the environmental effects of this material, which is encouraging the necessary change in habits to move forward in a necessary revolution. a change that requires us, for starters, to recycle much more than the 30% of disposable plastic we now collect for that purpose. this same environmental awareness is driving technological initiatives that will focus plastic packaging design on circularity rather than recycling. a movement that will drive innovation and create sustainable wealth and jobs. we also have advanced waste legislation, and we know that designing one that will regulate the secondary raw materials market, implementing quality standards and stimulating change with tax measures, is the next step. i therefore encourage european innovation programmes to join this movement, giving special attention to initiatives and enterprises in this sector of the circular economy.
madam president, every year, over eight million tons of plastic is dumped into our seas and oceans. to give you an idea, this has already created an island in the pacific the size of spain, italy and france combined. most of those plastics were single-use, but their degradation, which can take up to 1,000 years, is flooding our seas with microplastics that then end up in our food or on our plates. the single-use plastics we use may be cheap, but what you don't see -- and that's the problem -- is the price we pay, our health and the environment. that is why the european greens insist so much on prevention and on the price of producing plastics reflecting their real direct and indirect costs. ridiculous images that we've all seen, like these individually wrapped fruits in plastic, have to stop now.
madam president, congratulations to the rapporteur who knows very well the importance of the sea for many peoples, including my own. plastic waste in the sea is a big problem. eighty percent of the garbage in the sea is plastic, microplastic, so abundant that it's already part of our ecosystem. microplastics absorb other pollutants like pesticides and heavy materials that cause health problems. the marine sector, which is ecologically conscious, is very concerned and wants to fish instead of plastic bags or bottles. we need an ambitious policy, not a timid one, but a radical and urgent one, because the model is no longer appropriate. the model of production and consumption no longer works. and the circular economy is an opportunity, before the garbage invades us by land and sea.
madam president, it is gratifying to hear the unanimity of this house, of all the colleagues from different political groups, on how to address the need we have to address the elimination of plastic in the everyday use of our lives. plastic has, without a doubt, uses that are interesting and that have made our lives easier, but we have to be aware that this utility that it has given us in society is now a big problem. we've overused plastics in too many applications. so we must take action and i congratulate the commission on that because the strategy, the directive we are already discussing, is on the right track. let's take advantage of the time before the end of the legislature to take action on this reduction of plastics, on this education in habits and information to consumers and on innovation and new opportunities for economic sectors.
madam president, protecting the environment is essential to guaranteeing the future. but in the meantime, plastics are choking the sea. more than 80% of marine litter is plastic. the european union produces no more and no less than 25 - almost 26 - million tonnes a year. this is a lot, a lot of waste on our part and very little recycling: less than 30%. this is a great challenge that cannot be delayed. it needs concrete legislative initiatives from the commission, initiatives that stimulate the economy towards a transition of businesses towards the circular economy, a sustainable economy. we need prevention measures, education of the population. we need to involve the municipalities if we want this strategy to succeed. and we need a specific measure to start cleaning up the plastic in the seas, which is already a reality.
madam president, i would first of all like to congratulate my colleague karin kadenbach, because i think she has brought us a good report today, which is very useful for the needs of european society and society in general to address this reduction in antibiotics and antimicrobial resistance. i also want to congratulate commissioner andriukaitis because i think he is pushing important legislation. i would like to mention - because i have heard some colleagues and i think it is more out of ignorance than anything else - that in recent years we have made a lot of progress in reducing antibiotics and also in animal health, which is the area i know best. i'm going to talk about the one i know best. they are close, because we have reached agreement on the two tripartite dialogues, the veterinary medicines regulation and the medicated feed regulation, and there is going to be a big breakthrough with these regulations. we have also adopted a regulation on animal health during this parliamentary term. so in recent years there has been a big reduction in antibiotics in animal use because we have made restrictive regulations that have been adapted in each and every country. the current livestock farming is nothing like the one that existed ten years ago. if you don't know him, ask around. i think that, just as we must do this and we must continue to insist on it, we must also do something else - i know less about it - on the subject of antibiotics and their use in humans. but since i know less about it, i try not to talk about what i don't know and to talk about what i do know, which, in the case of animal health, these years have been very productive.
madam president, i congratulate my colleague, mrs kadenbach, on this very important report, which takes a clear comprehensive approach to one of the great health threats of our time, a threat which, if not tackled - as she says in the report - may well outweigh the current threat of cancer. we therefore need a proactive and clear attitude on the part of the commission to put this important report into action. research into new antibiotics? yes, but not only that; also medical devices that improve the accuracy in the diagnosis and treatment of these infections. but we especially need new research models that enable and guarantee access to future new antibiotics and devices. i am glad that it contains the need for a public research network for the development of these devices and antibiotics; national plans with budget, with objectives and with concrete monitoring; rational use of antibiotics, with monitoring by the specialists involved and who monitor this appropriate use, a rational use, human and animal. i am glad that the pirasoa project on the rational use of antibiotics, which has been so effective, is also part of the european experience.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner bulc, rapporteur, thank you for your openness to dialogue. this has enabled us to acknowledge ourselves with our suggestions and concerns in this report. we have thus been able to produce a balanced and reasonable text. i think the treatise is very interesting and it affects all of us, but it's almost futuristic. but it is not wrong to make forecasts of what is to come, apart from the specifics of the mobility package, which was an obligation we had in this own-initiative report. the revolution in digital mobility and new intelligent technologies is a phenomenon which is creating an unstoppable and irreversible situation. they affect the modernity, forms and modes of transport of the future, in which, according to modern theories of commodity, they must act in symbiosis, so we will have to pay close attention to them. our main concerns are safety, the legality of these modes of transport, legal liability and the training of workers in the sector, among other issues. it is important to create bridges so that the coexistence of old and new modes of transport can develop easily and progressively in order to anticipate the developments which the sector will be subjected to. the sharing economy, ladies and gentlemen, which is a big label that fits so many things, which has come to stay, cannot, in my opinion, be a jungle. it cannot be left to chance, but it must be regulated, the system must have rules of the game in which innovation is not impeded, but acquired rights are respected. these are the two keys on which we must base the future of european mobility, because it seems to me that this is the field of equity, of justice in this particular case. we must try to make sure that the sharing economy is not just another label, commissioner. political decisions are not being made, regulations are not being made in advance, new companies are being subjected to successive judgments in the different member states in an incoherent way. this is not the way, it does not seem to me to be the field on which we as politicians should work, but it is an inexcusable obligation to tackle them. i sincerely hope that this report will serve as a precedent for a different future for european mobility, a future that is positive for all of europe. that is my judgment and my wish.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, according to the european environment agency, transport accounts for one third of europe's final energy consumption. so talking about an agenda for the future of mobility in europe is - or should be - without any doubt, talking about sustainable and smart mobility, less polluting, safer, more accessible and also more affordable. promoting sustainable mobility in road transport involves reducing co2 emissions, and a clear commitment to electric vehicles, with clean batteries and the use of renewable energy, where efforts are just beginning. and yet - let us not be mistaken - it clearly involves a commitment to public transport, to reducing the use of individual road transport, where, however, demand continues to increase. we have seen how the fourth railway package was passed in this parliament, which is a liberalisation and in a way an attack on the train, which is the most sustainable and safest means of transport we have. i think this is something we should review and make a priority. to speak of sustainable mobility is also to take into account the social impact of transport at the different territorial levels, the need to structure the rural territory, to engineer new forms of collective transport. and we are not talking about the false sharing economy, we are talking about forms of public transport, so that transport serves to nourish the territorial sphere and not to depopulate it. and of course, urban areas are the places where co2 emissions are most concentrated and it is necessary and urgent to bet on greener, more sustainable, more human mobility, promoting the bicycle, promoting putting the pedestrian in the center of cities and designing cities in such a way that the use of public transport is encouraged to connect with other territories. it is certainly something that should not be done only by the year 2050, but it is urgent and it must be done now.
i would like to support the spirit of this report on mobility, mr president, and to advocate that local authorities be involved from the outset in the necessary public-private partnership process which must stimulate innovation and maintain european technological leadership in the world transport market and especially in the integration of its different modes. cities are the medium in which the most complex mobility problems have to be solved. the positive impact that better mobility will have on them, with more humane and sustainable development, is already one of the key factors in good governance and sustainable development. in implementing strategic actions to address major challenges, cities are key to hosting and driving practical experiences based on research and development. they are effective levers for changing people's habits; they allow for rapid testing, evaluation and sharing of results. therefore, experiments such as those that are about to be launched in the capital of the basque country, which will turn the city of vitoria-gasteiz into a mobility laboratory, are the way forward. a path which i hope will find support and encouragement in the european union.
the first item on the agenda is the debate on the report of mr pavel poc, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the application of regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 concerning plant protection products (2017/2128 (ini)) (a8-0268/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for this fruitful debate. i listened very carefully to your proposals and suggestions, especially in relation to trade. when we are discussing our trade agreements with third countries, we are very much involved in debates about the use of pesticides which are banned in the eu. it is and will always be on our agenda. ms mcguinness rightly mentioned a less ideological approach in our debates. i was in carcassonne a few weeks ago and had a meeting with organic farmers who were producing organic wine, and we have debates, which are not easy, about copper. sometimes, too, i see how some are vocal about a ban on glyphosate, for example, knowing that a scientific assessment was done transparently. this is excluding the monsanto papers, which are always mentioned. it is not about the monsanto papers: it is about the possibility of really assessing the situation from an evidence-based point of view, from the precautionary principle, and about having arguments in our hands. look, ban glyphosate and copper, and what about organic farming? what can we do? ms mcguinness has very rightly raised questions. we need to understand the complexity of the issues and to see how we can achieve proper enforcement, implementation, control and integrated management. all this should, of course, be done in a proper manner. about the use of derogations: yes, we sent letters to those member states because we asked the european food safety authority (efsa) to assess once again all the issues related to the use of such derogations in the area of neonicotinoids. we assess the situation and then we inform governments once again, especially those who use them without evidence. we are doing our job. we are not scapegoating, which is always bad, bad, bad. no! for me, as a medical doctor, there is no doubt that health is a priority, but if i am using medicines in animal health or plant health, or using medicines in treating people, i know what this means. we need to have a very balanced approach. i am, of course, ready to work together with you. we all share the same belief in achieving the goals regarding health, the environment and food safety. we need to work together to maintain and reinforce the european union’s very stringent regulatory system for pesticides. enforcement and implementation are the key. i assure you that we are committed to working towards greater transparency, increased trust and more a sustainable system of food production. once again, thank you for your engagement and for your own—initiative report. we will be very sensitive to the report and we will see how it can be included in the whole picture, bearing in mind the possibility of having different assessments, and we will then propose to parliament the further steps to be taken.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
in writing. since the entry into force of the 2009 plant protection products directive, a large number of dangerous substances have been removed from the market and others with new effects, in principle less harmful to humans but in some cases proven to be lethal to bees, and other pollinators, such as neonicotinoids, are still incomprehensibly authorised in cereals. other issues that should be addressed in the new biocidal strategy, as determined by the directive itself, are the exclusion of substances with the capacity to produce endocrine disrupting effects in humans and non-target organisms. this reluctance to apply this exclusion criterion has allowed the extension of the use of glyphosate, whose effects as an endocrine regulator are demonstrated by different organisations, as is its potentially carcinogenic effect. in addition, the 'environmentally toxic' exclusion criterion should be developed in detail, which, as has been shown in the case of neonicotinoids, does not seem to count, since, although extremely harmful to the environment, the use of these materials is legal. the commission should establish a clear definition of endocrine disruptor and a detailed description of the environmental toxicities of plant protection products.
the next item is the debate on the report by mrs olga sehnalová, on behalf of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, on dual quality of products in the single market (2018/2008 (ini)) (a8-0267/2018).
two blue cards were also addressed to mr. schwab. it happens, however, that the debates which are still pending are due to end at 11.45 a.m. so if we were to give out blue cards now, when he has already accepted one 'there were two more proposals', the debate would never end, which is why i am very sorry to tell you that there will be no more blue cards for mr schwab at the moment, because he has just accepted one and has responded to it.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for their remarks and for their unanimous support. i can see that all members, irrespective of their political group, are ready to support this report. i can only express the commission’s sincere desire to work with all of you to find a solution that will address the concerns of those among us who have been calling for more action on this issue, while at the same time making sure this does not create any distortions in our member states and our single market. i believe that we all wish for fairness and equality on the european single market. i hope that together we will achieve these goals as soon as possible: let us, as soon as possible, adopt the report and adopt our proposals and fair trade practices, and see how we can really enforce our instruments for defending consumer rights.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the next item is the debate on six motions for resolutions on uganda, arrest of opposition mps (2018/2840 ((rsp)).
mr president, on 13 august this year the ugandan police and army arrested and beat four opposition members of parliament, at least two journalists and 29 other people before the local elections. opposition politicians and the lawyer for the accused have said that the detainees were tortured during their arrest. these events highlight, once again, the particularly serious violations of freedom of association, assembly and expression in uganda. however, president museveni, in power since 1986 and accused of electoral fraud, continues to have significant western support. we used to support him for his role in the fight against jihadist terrorism, and now we support him above all for his support in achieving our immigration policy objectives. or, to put it another way: uganda does our dirty work, serving as a stopover for migrants from somalia and congo who want to seek a better life by fleeing poverty and war; that's why it's our partner. enough of this incoherence. the european union must condemn the authoritarian regime in uganda and stand up for human rights and fundamental freedoms once and for all.
mr president, commissioner mogherini, yesterday in the debate on the state of the union, president juncker underlined the importance of africa as a priority of european foreign policy. we shared it. but not at the cost of degrading our commitment to the rule of law and to democratic quality. uganda has been appreciated by the european union for its cooperation on migration, but it cannot be at the cost of looking the other way when the authoritarian drift has led to reforming the constitution and laws to allow the indefinite re-election of museveni who has been in power for a whopping thirty-two years, competing with paul biya in cameroon and teodoro obiang in guinea, and certainly not looking the other way when opposition mps are arrested, as well as journalists and activists critical of the growing authoritarianism in uganda, including bobi wine, a musician who is also a mp and who was tortured and detained after being released, when he tried to move to the united states to treat kidney ailments as a result of his torture. the european union has an obligation to send a clear message, particularly in a country which still criminalizes sexual orientation, uganda.
author. mr president, here we are again talking about human rights violations in myanmar. it should be remembered that august 23 was the anniversary of the beginning of the genocide of the rohingya. an occasion to remember our failure to hold those responsible to account. to remember, too, that the expulsion continues and also responds, above all, to big business that nobody talks about. military bases are being built on the looted lands and the massive inflow of transnational capital is being allowed to promote extractivism, agro-industry and land grabbing that are behind the expulsion of the rohingya. if after a genocide, so far confirmed even by the united nations, the human rights clause in our trade agreements is not applied, when will it be time to apply it? when we have no economic interests? if we do not take strong action to ensure an end to violence, access to justice and non-recurrence measures, we will be indirectly complicit in these crimes.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i welcome this new strong resolution against prime minister hun sen and his government’s repeated actions and violations of basic democratic principles. i want to welcome sam rainsy, a friend and a great leader, who does not give up in his struggle for more justice and democracy for the cambodian people. the elections last july in cambodia were a farce, the party of hun sen, in power for 33 years now, obtained 100% of all contested seats in the national assembly and the senate. the opposition was banned and declared illegal. the government of hun sen is illegitimate and i would like the eu and ms mogherini to recognise and acknowledge this fact. the eu gives a lot of money to cambodia and we cannot continue doing business as usual. cambodia benefits from the most favourable regime available under the us generalized system of preferences. under article 19 of this regulation, in case of serious human rights and labour rights violations the eu should suspend the preferential tariffs temporarily. if the eu wants to save its credibility we cannot do business as usual. i call on the commission to publish immediately the conclusions of the last eu fact-finding missions and i invite the commission to report these conclusions as soon as possible to parliament.
mr president, we are condemning a fraudulent election and we are condemning human rights violations. in cambodia, president hun sen, a former khmer rouge commander, genocidal, and the chairman of the cambodian people's party. where is the cambodian people's party? oh, my gosh! he is a member of the centre democratic international. and who is in the centre democratic international? the european people's party so let's start with home. for reasons of consistency, decency, ethics and aesthetics, the first thing the european people's party should do is to call for the expulsion of this indecent party with this indecent president hun sen. and something that also concerns us: it is not a question of suspending financial aid to fraudulent elections, which is enough to say that they are unacceptable. what needs to be done is to suspend all aid to cambodia that does not go through credible international organizations. the rest is pure music, pure fanfare.
mr president, today marks the one year since the brotherly catalan people took a stand in a referendum, a democratic referendum. and what did he get in return? violence exactly. we want to remember that statement, in honor of all the people who suffered violence. and i would remind you, mr president, that you are, as you did last time, going to the new government of the spanish state to ask for information on the situation of two former members of the european parliament: mr junqueras and mr raül romeva.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, at the last plenary session, this parliament already adopted a resolution with a very clear message against the demolition of the bedouin village of jan al-ahmar. the s&d group is putting this question back on the agenda because the signals coming from the ground are alarming. the israeli government seems to be ignoring all appeals. he is continuing with his plans and today, today, the deadline is over for the inhabitants to have to destroy their homes and flee from there. jan al-ahmar is surrounded by police right now and we don't know if the army is going to go in and demolish it. so today this house cannot be silent. that is why i am asking the groups that support our request for the president to make a statement, followed by the group round. so that we show our utter rejection of this grave violation of human rights. so that we can speak out against this harassment and against this illegality, because no one is above the law. and for us to demand that netanyahu not cross that red line. because jan al-ahmar is not just any village: it is a strategic enclave which, if demolished, will jeopardize any attempt at peace in the middle east. but i also ask you to support this petition to save the school for the 180 boys and girls who consider it a safe place to study. to save that symbol of hope that has become nothing but four walls of mud and tires. let's double the pressure because we still have time to prevent this tragedy.
the european union is not a party to the treaty on european union, but it is a party to the treaty on european union. we have repeatedly stated in nine resolutions that we support this process, and the committee on development went a step further: we adopted a resolution defining the elements that the european union can contribute to this treaty. in two weeks' time, the treaty will be further negotiated at the united nations and the resolution has not been debated or voted on in plenary. was there no room in the schedule? we cannot accept that human rights are not on the agenda of the european parliament. on tuesday the european external action service will tell us what they think of this treaty. good, but not enough. this parliament must have its own opinion. i propose that we vote on the inclusion in the agenda of the resolution on the european union's contributions to the binding treaty, adopted by the deve committee in july. ladies and gentlemen, the majority of you voted in favour of these nine resolutions supporting this treaty. i therefore ask for your vote in favour. it is a matter of consistency and respect for the work of the committee on development. and also respect for the european values that we so much defend.
mr president, the proposal makes sense, but i think it should be limited to what the specific object of the proposal is. in june this year, several members of the alde group presented a proposal to the commission in which we pointed out that the very important joint comprehensive plan of action - the jcpoa - was being jeopardized by the united states. we were told that there was a mandate for the european investment bank and that there was an update of the annex to the blockade statute, and that even the commission was open to other measures. what i understand is that it is important that we take into account that the problem is called what it is called, which is the joint comprehensive plan of action. and so what i would ask is that the process - let us say, the resolution or the debate - should be about protecting european businesses to preserve the joint comprehensive plan of action. that's the problem and not the generality.
the rapporteur. madam president, i should like to begin by thanking the various rapporteurs from the various groups for the constructive attitude which has made possible a text with 62 commitments, which has been virtually agreed. the commission proposal was a timely one. i said that when i presented it, but it needed to be aligned with the challenges that health technologies, access to health and sustainability of health systems really present. i think that the agreement we reached in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety is a good agreement because of how balanced it is, because it is patient-centred and because, in turn, it is respectful of the member states which, through the health systems, have to provide the right to access to health, a fundamental right. i should also like to begin by saying that this is not the first time that harmonization has been carried out in this sector at community level. it was already done in 1965 on safety, in 1995 the ema started work and in 2001 the foundations were laid for the regulation of medicines at european level. and i think the results have been positive. but today the challenges are different: today we have the challenge of improving quality; research needs have to be better aligned with medical needs, and prices, the high prices also have to be regulated. these and other concerns were already expressed by the council in june 2016 and by the european parliament. i am also aware that medicines and health technology are covered by european consumer goods legislation, but this must respect and guarantee at all times, in the final analysis, the fundamental right to access to health and, in short, access to health technology. i believe that this proposal, especially with the amendments and the proposal made by parliament, will improve quality, improve and align medical needs with research and, moreover, contribute to the sustainability of health systems; in short, improve the access of european citizens to medicines and new health products. in particular, and to illustrate this need, i would just like to give you a fact, and that is that in the last ten years, despite an increase of up to ten times the price of cancer drugs, only 14 or 15 percent of them have been shown to increase five-year survival. the fact is that the marketing authorization requires or assesses safety and efficacy, but it is not its task to assess effectiveness or comparative efficacy. there was already an attempt in 2004 to establish the therapeutic added value of medicinal products through regulation (ec) no 726/2004, but no agreement was possible. the reality today is that member states are conducting this evaluation process prior to the pricing and reimbursement process, which creates not only duplication but, more importantly, the loss of the opportunity to improve the available clinical evidence, to direct research priorities to the medical needs of patients, to improve the quality of research and ultimately access to it. i therefore believe that this proposal is timely and can be positive. the commission presented it to us justified on the basis of article 114 tfeu 'internal market to eliminate duplication'. i believe that this is neither the only nor the most important objective to be achieved, but that article 168 (4) tfeu allows us to take these decisions on the basis of the need to ensure the quality, safety and efficacy of medicinal products. the mandatory nature of this evaluation by the member states requires the necessary confidence that i believe the text gives, a confidence based on a high-quality scientific methodology that compares on the basis of the best available evidence, that is transparent, independent and public, and that is carried out by the coordination groups, by the experts at national level. at the same time, it should not prevent the member states themselves from adapting these assessments to the specificities of their national context. i would also like to mention a very important aspect, namely the agreement reached on medical devices. i am aware of the difficulties and differences that existed, but we have reached an agreement which i believe is positive, in an emerging sector that needs that necessary increase in evidence. the involvement of all stakeholders - patients, consumers, professionals - is also guaranteed and heard. at the same time, it opens the door to voluntary cooperation in new areas, such as precision medicine, discouraging those technologies... (the president withdrew the floor to the speaker) )
the rapporteur. mr president, the eurobarometer shows that health is one of the most important values for european citizens, and this regulation can help to do that, because they are asking us to do more. it is therefore a regulation which can have a high european added value. i am aware that the commission would have liked us to have gone even a little further, but i think that an important work we have done in this parliament has been to bring positions closer together to make this regulation possible, because we do indeed think it is necessary. as regards medical products, i understand that some groups would like to go further - as did my first proposal - but i think that the starting point and the meeting point have been good. i think there is a pending implementation of important legislation on this and time must be given, and i think that the scope that has been maintained can be an interesting first step. as regards patient involvement, i think it is especially guaranteed: all stakeholders will be involved not only in the network, but in the process, with the different contributions. and finally, qualified majority. i understand mr liese's position and i really share the view of certain member states where there is such experience - or long experience - in the evaluation of medicinal products, and which comes especially from those large countries. but it's not a standard method of approving these reports when it comes to scientific procedures, and there's no precedent in other agencies. i understand that, but, well. in short, thank you for all the contributions: they have all been positive. and i think that what we have to do now is to continue to work towards that necessary consensus with the council so that this regulation, which, as i say, is necessary for the patients of the european union, can finally be brought into being.
madam president, when we think of these technologies, the first thing that comes to mind are virtual currencies like bitcoin, currencies that have been in the eye of the storm since their birth and especially this year after having disappeared, according to recent reports, to 400 billion dollars in market value. it's a warning. we certainly need to harness the full potential that distributed ledger technologies and blockchain offer us to create fast, cheap, secure, transparent and immutable ledgers. we need to be able to develop applications in energy networks, healthcare, education, supply chains, creative industries, public sector. i therefore welcome the creation of the european blockchain observatory and the european association, which has already been joined by 26 countries. this is how, by joining forces, europe can pave the way to achieve leadership positions in a technology that could change our lives in multiple areas. but you have to be aware of the risks to be able to combat them. the volatility of bitcoin is a warning. we cannot ignore the crucial issues of data protection, cybersecurity, the opportunities for new avenues of fraud it offers and its environmental impact. recent studies indicate that the electricity consumption derived from the bitcoin mining network is equivalent to 1% of the electricity consumption worldwide. this is not viable. we therefore need to be aware of the opportunities and the risks in order to maximise the former and minimise the latter.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, madam commissioner, unfortunately we have to denounce once again that the rural environment is neglected, with regard to funds, quality public services, communications and adequate policies to combat depopulation. europe is increasingly focusing on cities, leaving the countryside behind. in the face of a european urban agenda, we should give a strong impetus to the european rural agenda, guaranteeing funds and, in particular, fighting against this depopulation which is a real tragedy. rural, mountainous and remote areas should be taken into account in the reform of cohesion policy, for population fixing, which should be the main objective, through the provision of quality public services, the guarantee of energy supply and infrastructure or socioeconomic dynamism in a sustainable way at all levels. specific gender equality policies should also be implemented. i would remind you that last year this parliament drew up a resolution on the role of women in rural areas, which says that gender mainstreaming must be a reality in all policies, including rural development. the commission and the member states are also called upon to give priority to access to the labour market for women in rural areas in order to ensure the socioeconomic development of these areas. public services and minimum incomes, including for pensioners, must be guaranteed, including services adapted to prevent and combat violence against women.
madam president, the whole of society benefits from the fresh water that flows from the mountains, from their biodiversity, from the landscape and even from their resources, but public administrations only devote resources to maintaining and developing these areas. on the contrary, they are indulging in all kinds of environmental aggressions that pollute, that damage the landscape and that drive people away. in my own country, galicia, quarries in the courel, reforestation with unsuitable species such as eucalyptus in a fonsagrada or the works of the ave in laza are examples of what i have just described. the depopulation of these areas is alarming. this is why it is urgent to adopt strong policies that foster development by giving priority to agro-ecological-based agricultural activity with strong public support for the people who live there and it is urgent to secure quality public services for all people. i therefore call, commissioner, for the resolution we adopted in this parliament on cohesion policy in may 2016 to be implemented.
madam president, commissioner, in spain between teruel and cuenca there is less population density than in lapland. this is the hidden face of industrial and urban development today. the field, more mechanized, neglected and undervalued than ever, is emptying. it loses wealth, jobs, diversity and life. in the face of this, we need an ambitious european strategy, with a new approach in which demographic change and the ecological transition play a central role. and we also need a proper territorial analysis to understand the challenges that these rural, mountainous and remote areas face. it's clear to me that the rural world can be the spearhead of an ecological and just transition, employment intensive and low carbon, with less industrial agriculture and macro farms and more ecological, local and extensive agriculture, with less coal and more renewable energy, with less corporate monocultures and more economic diversification. in february i sent you some proposals to combat depopulation, and i hope you will take them into account.
madam president, i would like to take this minute to help prevent tragedies like those which took the lives of irune fautsman, idurre, laura, jesus and the dozens of people who die every year at the level crossing in spain. the last one, a minor, on september 11th, in gaintxurizketa. some of these infrastructures are black spots waiting to be solved. to encourage this, i call for investigations into these accidents to be carried out by independent authorities - as required by european legislation for serious accidents - because some of those i have supervised are so partial and deficient that they encourage suspicion. they also imply a second victimization for the families of the deceased. they also make it difficult to draw up a map which identifies and prioritises urgent works to avoid the most obvious risks. in addition, already available visual control and automatic braking technologies should be applied to detect and avoid obstacles on the track. we can only talk about 'accidents' when we have taken all possible measures to prevent them.
madam president, i would like to speak about a problem that is a concern to many households: the electricity bill. eurostat says spain has the most expensive light in europe. in galicia it's even more expensive. the figures show that we are the european consumers with the most expensive light at market price. the price is set on the basis of the hourly price of electricity on the market of energy suppliers. ten years of hikes in which the bill went up 55 percent. as expensive as in germany, with the difference that the income level is lower. 15% of consumers cannot meet their household needs such as turning on the light, washing with hot water or heating because part of their income is paying for electricity. this is energy poverty, cold and a reduced quality of life. energy is a basic commons in which there is a lot of business and it should be forbidden to cut the light. we must promote in europe free access to a basic com mon good such as light for the most deprived households. in the face of the cutting of electricity and electricity at the price of gold, we will continue to fight for a fair electricity tariff at fair prices.
madam president, i want to denounce here and today the lack of plurality, the manipulation and control that the galician government has over galician public radio and television. this has led to the mobilization of the company's workers. it's been 19 black friday days. they call for an end to the control by the galician government of public radio and television, for the impartiality and pluralism which all media must have to be respected and for the labour rights of workers to be respected. the european commission and this parliament must urgently intervene so that the galician government puts an end to years of control and manipulation which have turned galician radio and television into the communications office of the government and the popular party.
madam president, at the next council meeting they will again discuss migration, but the debate will not be about what to do to ensure that those in need can reach europe safely or how to launch an operation in the mediterranean so that not a single person dies. the debate will once again be about how to increase control and protect our borders. and the question is, protect ourselves? who are the enemies from whom fencing, deportation, beatings, or even shooting must be done? people like hayat belkacem, a 19-year-old girl killed by the moroccan navy thanks to the agreement that morocco is the guardian of europe's southern border? or is the enemy the seventeen-year-old boy who was kept in a detention centre for foreigners in murcia and who has been deported in violation of all international human rights legislation? as always, they point to the ones below so we don't look up.
madam president, when the united kingdom leaves the european union, spain will become the only european country with a foreign colony on its own soil. gibraltar is not just a political conflict between spain and the united kingdom, it is also a stain on the process of european integration, a historical anachronism that sooner or later must be resolved. at the moment there is a negotiation going on between london and madrid, which this parliament should be aware of. firstly, to find out what the working conditions are like for the more than ten thousand spanish european citizens living in the gibraltar field who cross the border with gibraltar every day; secondly, to find out what measures will be put in place to prevent gibraltar from remaining an illegal money laundering and capital evasion centre - a tax haven; thirdly, to prevent tobacco and other goods - which i have not mentioned - from being smuggled from gibraltar into the single market every day; fourthly, to stop the toxic discharges from the colony which damage the ecosystem of the bay of algeciras; fifthly, to jointly manage the airport. and sixthly, we believe that the brexit agreement should include a timetable for the resumption of bilateral negotiations on the sovereignty issue, in accordance with the provisions of the united nations and the brussels process. the united kingdom is leaving; spain is staying with friends. we shall not find a better opportunity to resolve the untenable situation of the last remaining colony in europe.
in writing. one month after the informal summit in salzburg, there is no solidarity. while the citizens want solutions to our problems, the european council not only fails to provide solutions, but accumulates failure after failure. the reform of the common asylum policy is a good example. it is unacceptable that the heads of state or government do not unblock the reform of the asylum package after the european parliament has approved it by a majority. migration is a global phenomenon and if we want people to stop dying in the mediterranean, the eu must act with humanity, dignity and credibility. the european council does not deal with problems at national level either. when was the last time social protection, workers' rights and child poverty were at the top of the agenda of a european council? unfortunately, the european council is paralysed by the continuous vetoes of the member states. if we do not build bridges for european solidarity to emerge, the status quo is not viable.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for this opportunity to exchange views on the issue of the eu’s input into a possible international, legally—binding instrument on transnational corporations and other business enterprises with respect to human rights. i shall endeavour to give you briefly the broad eu view from the council’s perspective, and afterwards the commission will be in a position to elaborate on the topics concerned. i would first of all like to stress that advancing on business and human rights is an important priority of the eu’s human rights agenda, as set out in the eu action plan on human rights and democracy for the period 2015—2019, adopted by the council on 20 july 2015. it should be noted that the recurrent element which is underpinning all our actions identified in the action plan is the united nations guiding principles of 2011 as the first, and so far only authoritative global framework to address the impact of business on human rights. in its 2016 conclusions on business and human rights, the council recalled the global consensus reached on the un guiding principles adopted in 2011 and stressed that any possible further steps regarding the international legal framework for business and human rights at un level must be inclusive, firmly rooted in the un guiding principles, and address all types of companies, not only transnational. these three principles have always constituted our barometers for engagement in the intergovernmental working group process. president, honourable members, i can reassure you that the council, in particular through its working party on human rights, continues working on the business and human rights file, including on developing our common position on the process regarding a possible legally binding instrument. the eu is, at the same time, progressing on other tracks, notably the working group on business and human rights and the annual forum on business and human rights, specifically on efforts to achieve a coherent approach throughout the eu on access to remedy for victims of business-related human rights violations. the eu continues to offer its support to the accountability and remedy project led by the office of the high commissioner on human rights, recognising that the initiative may provide best practices that can be implemented at eu and member state level, including on improved cooperation between states in cross-border cases. i’m looking forward to the debate and to hearing the commission’s input.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to try to inform you of all aspects of this very challenging issue and to be constructive after the remarks on the council side. the european union is fully engaged in the ongoing discussions on business and human rights. we are not only exploring possible future initiatives, we are also intensively working both internally and with partners to implement the un guiding principles on business and human rights. already, 14 eu member states have adopted a national action plan on business and human rights. our policy is based on a mix of voluntary and regulatory measures that provide for tangible protection against human rights abuses. the eu is therefore not opposed, as a matter of principle, to discussing a potential legally binding instrument, and this is why we have engaged in the process led by ecuador. nonetheless, we insist that the scope of the discussion should include all companies, not only transnationals or multinationals, as many human rights violations are committed by domestic companies. the draft text submitted by ecuador last july contains important elements, including on access to remedy by victims of corporate abuse. yet its scope is still too restrictive. another prerequisite for the european union is that the negotiations are based on the existing un guiding principles. what is also clear at this moment is that the process is not yet fully ripe for negotiations. for the moment, the human rights council is still divided on this issue. we nevertheless engaged in discussions in geneva in the hope that process issues would be solved and a meaningful discussion possible. what is, in our view, essential is a process that would be chaired in an impartial manner and that would be inclusive, transparent and predictable. we also ask that rules and established practice in intergovernmental working groups are respected. we hope that we can count on the european parliament to also signal the need for a better process. as the european union, we have engaged in in—depth discussions with member states, industry and ngos on these very complex issues. we have done extensive work on the principles for eu engagement and on the possible format and points of substance of a possible legally binding instrument, and we stand ready to debrief the european parliament at any stage of this process. we believe the added value of any possible legally binding instrument should be to ensure a level playing field for companies globally. therefore, it is essential for a proposal to reach sufficient traction amongst un member states. it is also important to ensure policy coherence and avoid the duplication of efforts. we are reflecting on which format of a legally binding instrument would stand better chances to achieve this level playing field. these discussions are also a good opportunity to encourage others to upgrade their standards. the european union can offer its experience on corporate due diligence in the field of human rights, including transparency requirements and public procurement rules. we need better prevention of abuses, and better access to remedy for victims when abuses occur. the european union has measures in place to ensure judicial and non-judicial access to remedy for victims, including access to justice and acknowledgement of victims’ rights, with a focus on provisions to clarify issues of jurisdiction, and to make international judicial cooperation and mutual legal assistance more effective. in addition, on access to remedy, the commission is conducting a study aimed at collecting information on existing judicial and non-judicial mechanisms in the eu member states concerning access to remedy for victims of business-related abuses. the results are expected by the end of next year, 2019. to conclude, the european union is committed to continuing a discussion with a view to finding feasible and sustainable solutions to the existing protection gaps, on a basis that ensures a true level playing field for all.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, madam president-in-office, ladies and gentlemen, as the first article of the resolution which parliament will adopt tomorrow states, business plays an essential role in the process of economic globalisation through international trade in goods and services. as i have heard your colleague, mrs malmström, say many times, we cannot today simply talk about imports and exports - as mr langen reminded us in his speech - but about increasingly complex production chains. today, parts and components, raw materials from different countries, are assembled on a global production line. furthermore, mr president, it is clear that business must be a key ally of the private sector in achieving the millennium goals and in helping developing countries. i have personally had the opportunity to witness many activities in the field of corporate social responsibility carried out by european companies. in addition, in the field of human rights, in the recent agreements which the european union has concluded with countries such as japan, canada, mexico, vietnam and singapore, or with those we are negotiating with countries such as australia, new zealand and chile, the fundamental element of these agreements is a democratic clause. and i understand, mr president, that this democratic clause and this spirit must be the basis for action by public and private actors in the field of relations with other countries. of course, this does not mean that if in a wider context, such as that of the united nations, an activity is being negotiated in which the european union can contribute its expertise, its commitment and its experience in the field of human rights, we must also participate. i am therefore pleased to know, commissioner, that the commission is involved and is following this negotiating process closely, but i think that what is at issue in this debate is whether there is a formal mandate for the european union to be able to participate in this exercise, and of course this has to be achieved through the legally established procedures.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. these are just a few examples of how transnational corporations violate human rights and destroy the environment with impunity. globalisation has come like a thorn in the side of the developing countries, and some western companies are doing there what they would never dare to do on european soil, things we no longer allow to happen on european soil. why do we let some of our companies behave in such a wild way, where we don't see them? in addition, it has been impossible to date for victims to have access to the justice and reparation to which they are entitled. we are therefore facing a historic moment today, because we have the opportunity for the union to give a decisive boost to the binding treaty that has been negotiated at the united nations for four years now. that is why i ask you to support the resolution which has already been adopted in the committee on development of this parliament. let's show the world that we are human rights defenders and not the other way around. that's done by doing... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, there is no denying that globalisation and its extension have had positive effects. for example, they have lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty. but it is also true that they have had many negative effects, including giving excessive power to transnational companies. some have behaved responsibly, but many others, especially the larger ones, have not. they have frequently ignored labour rights, in some cases violated human rights, altered or destroyed the environment or exploited the weakness of the workforce, in some cases child labour. to frame the actions of these companies, a binding treaty has been negotiated at the united nations, which affects all companies, obliges them to act responsibly and also allows victims access to reparation. the problem we have is that the european union is not a negotiating party within the united nations and that the member states have, in many cases, not supported this process. some of those who have supported it have not yet put national strategies into action. we need to get more involved as the european union, and we propose that the commission, the european external action service and the various committees involved in this parliament work together to strengthen the position of the european union in the forthcoming negotiations on 15 october in geneva. this matter deserves our support. it is about defending the weak when they are subjected to the power of the strong.
mr president, thank you, commissioner, for being here. the defence of human rights requires more than good words, it requires effectiveness. and when we talk about transnational companies with centres in developing countries, we find that the instruments we have have not been fully and really effective. we need to equip ourselves with legally binding tools. this has been established by the united nations since 2014. as the home of many transnational companies, the european union should have led the way in creating these binding mechanisms. but the union still does not have a mandate to participate in the negotiating process, even though this house has approved it. this inaction, this disinterestedness is not acceptable from any point of view, and i know that to some people this still sounds like interventionism, that it seems to them illiberal for politics to interfere in the sphere of private business. but it is just the opposite: what is liberal is to defend human rights all over the world and it is not acceptable for our companies to do abroad what is forbidden here, what would seem intolerable to us here. economic globalisation will be a beneficial process if it is accompanied by a globalisation of rights and duties.
mr president, commissioner, there is a limit to the prosperity of companies: human dignity. respect for human rights is a fundamental value and principle of the european union. the right to life and physical integrity, access to land, decent work are fundamental elements that cannot be left to voluntarism. there are too many legal loopholes that allow companies that violate these principles to go unpunished. and worse, there are too many victims, most of them women. they lose everything. that they can't access the justice or reparations they deserve. we cannot - experience shows us - continue like this. the european union must lead this process. and that is why i am asking, i am demanding that the european union has an urgent mandate to negotiate a binding international treaty on business and human rights. let's stop looking the other way. let's look at the victims. they need us. the european union must lead this process.
mr president, commissioner, this oral question has been put by the parliament's committees on international trade, development and foreign affairs, but it could also have been put perfectly well by the committee on freedom, justice and home affairs because it concerns a backbone of the european union's external and global action - the commitment to fundamental rights - and it is a requirement of the commission's responsibility to obtain from the council a negotiating mandate from the european union to fill the gap in international regulations with which multinationals exploit defenseless people - particularly vulnerable children and women - in their commercial actions, whether in uzbekistan, bangladesh - as this european parliament has made clear - or anywhere else in the world. the message is therefore clear: commission, european union, fundamental rights, human rights everywhere, also applicable to the social responsibility of multinational companies.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice—president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, this plenary is taking place a few days after the high representative co-chaired a ministerial meeting in new york on the un agency for palestinian refugees. at the meeting, which i also attended, the european union reaffirmed once more its political and financial support. unrwa is essential to peace in the holy land. it is serving millions of palestine refugees and preserving the very possibility of a palestinian state. the ministerial meeting was an opportunity to underline the importance of guaranteeing full financial support to unrwa, and we managed to mobilise very significant resources that reduce the funding gap enormously. this means that palestine will continue to be assisted by the un agency. the commission proposed additional support to unrwa of eur 40 million. the eu and its member states collectively provide almost half of unrwa’s budget. we have all invested over eur 1 billion in funding over the last three years. we are, and we will continue to be, strong, reliable, and critical supporters of the agency. supporting unrwa is, above all, a humanitarian responsibility, but it is also in our collective interest for the sake of peace in the middle east. first, millions of people, many of them extremely young, rely on unrwa for essential services such as education, health services and food assistance. this is true in the west bank and gaza, but also in countries such as jordan, lebanon and syria that host a large number of palestinian refugees. thanks to these funds, half a million children can go to school every day, millions of patients receive health care, and thousands of people have access to jobs. second, unrwa’s activities are particularly important for the people in gaza who face a complex political and humanitarian situation. at last week’s ad hoc liaison committee meeting on palestine in new york, we recalled that our priority must be to avoid another escalation and to restore a political horizon for the people of gaza, but this will never be possible if we don’t also address the humanitarian situation right now and remain committed to assisting the most vulnerable people in gaza. finally, without unrwa it would be even more difficult to reach a negotiated two-state solution. a just, fair, agreed and realistic solution for palestine refugees is a final status issue that only the two parties can resolve through negotiations, with the support of the international community. today, the agency is reforming itself to be more effective, efficient and to have a perspective for the future. unrwa has expanded its donor base and taken internal management measures to increase efficiency and reduce costs. next year will be an even tougher year for unrwa. in this context, we need to stress once more the crucial importance for unrwa to intensify its efforts to put in place cost saving measures and reforms, including refocusing unrwa’s activities on core services for the most vulnerable refugees. we are engaging with unrwa to explore synergies with other potential service providers to safeguard key services to palestinian refugees. precisely because we believe that unrwa is essential, we want it to be more effective and efficient than it is today. we will do our utmost to ensure that unrwa and its staff continue to operate until a just, fair, agreed and realistic solution to the plight of palestinian refugees is finally reached. without unrwa and without the two—state perspective, there would just be chaos and violence for both the israeli and the palestinian people. we need a multilateral framework to support negotiations, we need a collective engagement to push for political progress and we need the region and the entire international community to continue to play their role. the european union will double down on efforts to work with our partners – the us and other regional and international partners – towards our common goal of a negotiated two—state solution.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, in february we discussed this very issue in this house after the decision of the united states government to freeze 65 million of its contribution to the united nations refugee fund. we expressed our concern on that occasion, mr president. the european union is also concerned about the situation in the middle east, and the un secretary-general has expressed the same concern, noting that this agency is not a palestinian agency but a un agency. on 31 august the united states government decided to withdraw definitively 368 million of the 1 200 million. the next day, the spokesman for the european external action service of the european union recalled with satisfaction the opening of several schools on the same weekend, which will educate more than half a million children from palestine, syria, lebanon and jordan. today the european union is running the main budgetary effort on basic needs, humanitarian aid and social development, and we are really proud of that, and we congratulate the commission. that is why, mr president, we must regret this decision by the united states, which joins the long list of disagreements with the european union, but in this case it affects more than 5 500 000 people, men, women and children, whom we simply cannot abandon, as the high commissioner has said. of course, this does not mean that the greatest possible financial control, budgetary control and accountability measures should not be required of these funds, but we understand, mr president, that the united states' withdrawal from joining this international effort in favour of the palestinian people is clearly not in the interests of the influence that this country has been exercising in the process of finding a just and lasting solution to the conflict in palestine. and so, mr president, we hope that the united states, on the basis of strictly humanitarian grounds, will reconsider its decision.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, first of all i would like to thank the commissioner and also the high representative for the effort they are making to try to balance what is a very serious financial crisis of an organisation which is concerned, as the commissioner has said, with the most vulnerable - children, the sick, the elderly - and with educating young men and women. the trump administration's decision goes far beyond abandoning vulnerable people, people who need help. the trump administration's decision is precisely in that idea of growing hatred - hatred and disaffection. to abandon girls who are going to school, who need, more than ever and more than anyone, education as a tool to be able to survive, to be able to improve, to be able to even withstand the situation they are living in, to isolate them from the education system, would be practically like planting landmines. it is a very serious decision, it is very profound and it is very political. it's not just financial. it is a decision which is intended to make the two-state solution impossible, making palestinian youth feel more and more abandoned, more and more alienated from the values of solidarity and justice. so, in addition to appealing for the financial effort - which i know the commission is making, which this parliament and the member states must make - i want to appeal for the united states to return to the path of solidarity and peace-building.
mr president, the suspension of us funding to unrwa is an indecent blackmail by trump in favour of the israeli far right. all the un reports are consistent with the extreme conditions in palestine, but unrwa does not replace israel's obligations in occupied palestine under the fourth geneva convention, which holds it responsible for meeting all the needs of the palestinians. gaza will be inevitable in 2020, where israel, moreover, bans access to all members of this parliament. the democratic clause in article 2 of the eu-israel association agreement obliges israel to respect democratic principles and human rights and is an essential part of the agreement. so, it's not enough to support unrwa. either we apply the democratic clause or we remove it from all our agreements. because the european union will pay for trump's blackmail to prevent a humanitarian disaster, but we are not facing a humanitarian disaster. we are facing a political problem. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. mr gericke, there is nothing unequal in determining that a country must comply with international law and international law is the fourth geneva convention. what he says about syria i agree with, but a crime in syria does not exempt from a crime in israel.
mr president, two weeks ago, together with other meps, i was in lebanon and we had the opportunity to visit one of the palestinian refugee camps, the one in beirut in shatila. i can assure you, it is a terrible site. thousands of people living in very poor conditions packed into just 0.4 square kilometres. we had the opportunity to talk to mothers and fathers of the school children in the only school to be found in the neighbourhood. we also talked to the doctors running the healthcare centre. they all implored us to keep unrwa alive. without unrwa support these people, who are the last of the last in lebanon, would be totally abandoned and left homeless. let’s not follow the argument of the trump administration; unrwa has no ideology other than human dignity and human rights and takes no sides in the conflict between israel and palestine. unrwa just honours international commitments taken 70 years ago, and the european union and its members states cannot let unrwa fall.
mr president, the middle east in general and the palestinian question in particular require dialogue and agreements, not unilateral action. the situation created by the withdrawal of us aid to unrwa inevitably calls for an increase in the contribution of the european union and its member states. we have no other choice. i welcome the position expressed by the commissioner. food, health, basic education and infrastructure services cannot be neglected. the southern mediterranean is our neighbourhood. what happens there has immediate repercussions in europe. we've seen it with the syrian conflict. we see it, too, with the situation in libya. the destabilization of the mediterranean directly affects us. in addition to the member states, i hope that other countries, for example the arab countries with resources, will also increase their contribution to unrwa, which is suffering from a chronic deficit, now worsening. i am concerned that these kinds of decisions from washington could be used to increase radicalization among palestinian refugees. i am also concerned that with these and other similar decisions the united states continues in a line of self-marginalization of a region in which until recently it was the key player. in the end, russia and iran could increase their role in an area where the influence of the united states is steadily decreasing. the european union, in addition to increasing its contribution to unrwa, must seek to intensify its dialogue with washington and make it aware of the risks of these unilateral acts in such a volatile region, which is at the same time so important for europe and the west.
mr president, in the committee on budgets we are always talking about the funding of the paho, or rather the underfunding of the agency, because every year we receive their financial reports and we see the economic hardships they have to face. the problem with numbers is that they're very cold and hard to put eyes and face on, and for that, it's better to go on the ground. so in this mandate we have travelled to palestine, to lebanon and to jordan to see him there, and there you can see his eyes and his faces. and then you realize that the budget negotiations, which we worked so hard to get through, had one undeniable goal: that refugees and especially children who are victims of wars and senseless political disputes have their most basic needs covered: shelter, food, education and health care. and that, something as humanitarian as that, is what trump just denied. and the truth is, you can't get any more miserable. and if trump has no heart, europe must show that it does, and not just with words, but with its budgets, and do it without cracks, without cuts and without miseries.
mr president, as the rapporteur for humanitarian aid in this parliament i have visited refugee camps in lebanon, in jordan and also in palestine. refugee camps on land occupied by another country. in all of them i have seen the meritorious work of unrwa, which is dealing with a crisis that has lasted for more than seven decades and which has no prospect of a solution in the immediate future. someone has pointed out that we are facing a political and also a humanitarian crisis, but it is worse. we are faced with the use of a humanitarian crisis for political gain. that is what the united states has done: cutting off support to people in need in order to impose its policy in the middle east, and that is unbearable from a humanitarian perspective.
mr president, i would like to expressly congratulate vice-president mogherini on the role played by the european union in the process which has led to the enlargement of the donor base and the contributions which support the vital work of the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees in the near east. the newly secured funds are the best response to president trump's reckless behavior. the unilateral decisions it has taken in the area, which justify decisions such as the blocking of most of the funds with which the united states contributed to financing this body, are a weapon of mass destruction of the delicate balances and values that try to build peace and stability, of the tools that allow compliance with obligations that the legislation assigns to the international community to assist the palestinian refugees. i am glad that the european union has responded to this shortsightedness, short-sightedness, short-sightedness and populist short-sightedness of the american president with speed, efficiency and leadership. europe, the best. trump is not america, the worst.
mr president, the un agency for palestinian refugees is suffering the most dramatic crisis in history. it's a dramatic and cruel situation. the cuts to schools, hospitals and emergency food assistance have very serious symbolic, political and material implications. it means that they will not have access to basic services, but politically, as the commissioner said, it also means putting forward the idea that these people should be assimilated and forget about the right to return, it means taking away the refugee status of five million people, it is a political decision. gaza is much worse. there, 8 percent of the population depends on humanitarian aid. there's no water, no electricity, no utilities. it was already hard to live in gaza with the occupation. if the funds are cut, it's even worse. we denounce the inability of the international community and the complicity with trump and that europe is no longer complicit because this does not help peace.
mr. president, president trump's decision not to fund unrwa is not only a cruel measure to those who were expelled from their rightful lands but a political torpedo against the international concert. it is to go from openly supporting the illegal occupation of palestine to openly embracing the racist project of the most extreme zionism, the one that seeks the disappearance of the palestinians. the european union must financially support the paho so that it does not collapse, but what is needed is that the reasons for which this agency was set up should be ended. we must be firm with israel, the occupying power which does not respect international law. the same firmness that the european union uses with other small countries. we must recognize palestine as a state and we must ask and demand its viability with the un resolutions, a state with the 1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital, and the return of the refugees.
in writing. the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees provides basic services to more than five million palestinian refugees in the middle east, especially in gaza. following the trump administration's announcement to cut its funding, unwra is in an unprecedented financial crisis. the decision of the united states last september means a reduction of 360 million dollars for its budget. saving unrwa must be a priority to ease the lives of hundreds of thousands of palestinian refugee families. in 2019, donors, especially the eu, will have to step up and increase funds to maintain schools, clinics and food aid in gaza. most eu member states are already committing to this. in addition to the limitations on unwra, the serious humanitarian and specifically health situation in the gaza strip must be highlighted. we are still unable to get into gaza because the israeli authorities are preventing official delegations from this parliament from coming to inquire about the situation and the destination of our humanitarian aid and eu cooperation.
in writing. the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees provides basic services to more than five million palestinian refugees in the middle east, especially in gaza. following the trump administration's announcement to cut its funding, unwra is in an unprecedented financial crisis. the decision of the united states last september means a reduction of 360 million dollars for its budget. saving unrwa must be a priority to ease the lives of hundreds of thousands of palestinian refugee families. in 2019, donors, especially the eu, will have to step up and increase funds to maintain schools, clinics and food aid in gaza. most eu member states are already committing to this. in addition to the limitations on unwra, the serious humanitarian and specifically health situation in the gaza strip must be highlighted. we are still unable to get into gaza because the israeli authorities are preventing official delegations from this parliament from coming to inquire about the situation and the destination of our humanitarian aid and eu cooperation.
in writing. the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees provides basic services to more than five million palestinian refugees in the middle east, especially in gaza. following the trump administration's announcement to cut its funding, unwra is in an unprecedented financial crisis. the decision of the united states last september means a reduction of 360 million dollars for its budget. saving unrwa must be a priority to ease the lives of hundreds of thousands of palestinian refugee families. in 2019, donors, especially the eu, will have to step up and increase funds to maintain schools, clinics and food aid in gaza. most eu member states are already committing to this. in addition to the limitations on unwra, the serious humanitarian and specifically health situation in the gaza strip must be highlighted. we are still unable to get into gaza because the israeli authorities are preventing official delegations from this parliament from coming to inquire about the situation and the destination of our humanitarian aid and eu cooperation.
in writing. the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees provides basic services to more than five million palestinian refugees in the middle east, especially in gaza. following the trump administration's announcement to cut its funding, unwra is in an unprecedented financial crisis. the decision of the united states last september means a reduction of 360 million dollars for its budget. saving unrwa must be a priority to ease the lives of hundreds of thousands of palestinian refugee families. in 2019, donors, especially the eu, will have to step up and increase funds to maintain schools, clinics and food aid in gaza. most eu member states are already committing to this. in addition to the limitations on unwra, the serious humanitarian and specifically health situation in the gaza strip must be highlighted. we are still unable to get into gaza because the israeli authorities are preventing official delegations from this parliament from coming to inquire about the situation and the destination of our humanitarian aid and eu cooperation.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, commissioner, i am truly sorry for the hypocrisy of this union. on the one hand, you ask the member states to increase humanitarian aid, but you know very well that wars cause refugees, and yet you look the other way and many states, like spain - my country - continue to do business with the sale of arms. killing to keep killing. the report by the un panel of experts confirms what we already feared: the saudi-led coalition is responsible for indiscriminate bombing of civilians and infrastructure, hospitals, school buses, etc. its de facto blockade deliberately delays the entry of goods and medicines. to kill, in addition to bombs, with hunger, with cholera the civilian population. listen to this parliament: start the procedure to implement an embargo on the sale of arms to the countries involved - to all - in this conflict. our foreign minister has declared that the next shipment of weapons from spain to saudi arabia will be four hundred precision laser bombs and that these will not cause collateral damage. let's not be cynical: there are no painless bombs. let's open our eyes for once.
mr president, there are tens of millions of people in the world fleeing from hunger and war. and there are some countries where the same people are fleeing from both hunger and war. this is the case in yemen, a poor country among the poor, one of the poorest in the world. three out of four yemenis are at risk of malnutrition. the population at present in yemen at risk of starvation is equivalent to the population of belgium. that's the equivalent of the combined population of hungary, latvia and lithuania. the priorities we have to address are, first of all, reducing hunger and malnutrition. secondly, to avoid the continuing outbreaks of cholera. thirdly, the protection of civilians. but there must be an immediate diplomatic effort to allow humanitarian aid access. seven and a half million yemenis are not available for the arrival of that aid. there are currently over 150 non-governmental organizations working to help these at-risk populations, but it won't be humanitarian actors who end the war. it will have to be determined diplomatic action to push the two sides to reach the agreement that the united nations is promoting.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have already discussed the dramatic situation in yemen in this house on other occasions. the first article of the draft resolution which we are going to adopt tomorrow expresses our concern at the devastating situation in this country, which has been presented to us by the commissioner and described by other members: 22 million people in a humanitarian emergency, 5 million children and 77 000 children dying every year. this situation is really untenable. that is why, mr president, apart from expressing our concern and looking for the culprits, we should be looking for solutions. first, we must deal with the humanitarian emergency. that is why it is important to recognize the efforts of the united nations and its negotiating tables for the country. secondly, commissioner, i would like to thank the european union for the efforts it is making, and particularly the commissioner who is with us today in this debate. and thirdly, i would also like to thank the many regional partners who have made substantial contributions to the united nations in an attempt to alleviate this situation. on the other hand, mr president, it is very important to stop and end the violence, to ensure that international humanitarian law prevails and, at the same time, to try to protect the civilian population. and finally - and i think the commissioner has made this very clear - we must support the efforts of the special envoy of the un secretary-general to try to get the two sides to the negotiating table, to get the houthi rebels to be part of this geneva process and, at the same time, mr president, to do our part as the european union in trying to achieve a yemen that is stable, that lives in peace and is as far away as possible from extremism.
mr. president, how can we be so hypocritical? it's the contradictions of capitalism, which first talks about tragedy, sees photos to share on facebook of dead children and then is able to export weapons to saudi arabia. like those sold by spain during the rajoy government - the third largest exporter of the european union, with nine hundred million euros - to the international coalition led by the saudis. he even took a picture of himself. there is a clear breach of the arms trade treaty. bombing civilians indiscriminately is prohibited. the minister of the present government also made a statement saying that precision weapons do not cause side effects. guns always cause side effects. always have. four hundred precision laser bombs sold this past september. civilians are being bombed indiscriminately. it is our shame: a humanitarian disaster of famine, epidemics and wars. so, inspector, do a study and stop this war. do a study of the arms export. and they stop. and embargo the weapons that are killing people.
mr president, mr commissioner, since it is not the same whether you come from a country which produces cars or not, i shall speak of spain. spain is the second largest manufacturer of passenger cars and the first manufacturer of commercial vehicles in europe and, speaking in figures, it has 17 car factories plus the supplier industry, contributes to the trade balance with 10% of gdp and is the largest exporter with over 34 billion euros. in addition, no other sector has made environmental progress or investments since 2005 as the automotive sector has done. the reduction levels being proposed by the european commission are already very ambitious. for this reason, it seems disproportionate that even higher reduction levels are being discussed that go well beyond the strategic framework. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to provide the commission with a report on the implementation of the new rules on the internal market in electricity. in this respect, the system of incentives for zero- and low-emission vehicles proposed by the commission is a positive one. however, the introduction of a malus penalty system, as approved by the committee on the environment, is neither appropriate nor in accordance with the principle of technological neutrality. i think that the 35% reduction by 2030, as proposed by the epp, together with a number of flexibilities, is an ambitious and reasonable position.
mr. president, fighting climate change is not an option. it's a duty. and so reducing emissions in a sector which produces a quarter of the european union's is also an obligation. and we have to find the right balance between industry, which generates economic activity and employment in countries like spain, which are very important, and the obligation to reduce emissions. that is the debate we have to produce. and we must invite industry to make the necessary technological changes to maintain a leading position in european production and industry too. why would you do that? because we're talking about the future. we're talking about our health. and so making those technological changes is also going to mean maintaining that future and that activity in the medium and long term. so we have to meet paris and we have to pursue an ambitious reduction in emissions.
mr president, commissioner, i have always believed in the need to preserve jobs while ensuring the improvement of the quality of the environment. because there is no fight against climate change if you fight against industry, behind the back of industry or without industry. there can no longer be room for an industry that does not firmly see that the way forward is a low-emission economy, or rather, a de-fossilised economy. in this sense, there is no hierarchy between the survival of the planet and the creation of jobs. we trust in european industry and society, which is leading a new industrial revolution and transforming the european economy into a low-emission economy. this is already happening. we trust in european society, which is on track to meet the paris objectives under the leadership of the european commission. and yes, of course, we must be ambitious, yes, of course! but without jeopardizing any workplace. we don't create them here, the industry does. i'm finished, president. few of us, i think, are automotive engineers and, in any case, today we are members of parliament. our task as legislators is not to play the role of engineers but to set targets and ensure technological neutrality that gives engineers the freedom to move forward in the technological transition in the most coherent way possible. if we do not do this, we will only be making progress on paper, and we want to make progress in reality, as the commission proposal does.
in writing. it is paradoxical to argue about whether the industry should reduce emissions from new cars by 30, 40 or 45% from 2021, when the reality is that in china there are almost 500 electric car manufacturers and 9 of them each produce more than 7,000 vehicles a week that tesla manufactures, or when the government of india has on its agenda 100% new electric vehicles by 2030, which will save it more than 60 billion us dollars in oil imports and 1,200,000 fewer deaths from pollution, and that without counting the huge health costs that it entails. for our part, in europe we are discussing absurd percentages without any ambition, while industry is again caught in flagrante delicto manipulating emissions, but this time upwards so that, as if by magic, emissions would be reduced beyond 2021 after the imposition of the regulation we are discussing today. the european car industry has a blindfold, or rather a curtain of polluting fumes, which does not let it see that other economies are betting on the electric vehicle, at the risk of making them disappear or, rather, relocate.
mr president, commissioner, it is true that there is a spectre haunting europe: the spectre of nationalism, which is the negation of europe; the spectre of populism, which offers the simple answer to those who feel struck by inequality and impoverishment of scapegoating them as if they were enemies of the people. but it's the specter of the far right that excites hate speech. fascism did incalculable damage in the 20th century, but it didn't die out in the 20th century. it is not only coming into the 21st century, but it is also represented in the european parliament. that fascism that proposes fear and exploitation of fear and hatred of the different. but to overcome it, the european union must do more than offer a good diagnosis or even a good speech. it has to offer hope to those who have lost it. the hope of integration in diversity, of respect for the different, of the ability to overcome challenges and changes without opposing the reactionary response of stimulation of hatred and contempt for the different. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
blue-card answer. – i too listened carefully to what you said, but let me tell you that it is simply grotesque to maintain in the present day that there is a relationship between national socialism and whatever socialism stands for throughout the history of europe. socialism is, first of all, democracy and respect for human rights, and national socialism is pure fascism, which is the denial of democracy, human rights and the european ideal, the denial of civilisation and the instigation of hatred in a pure state of negative mind. so being a socialist in the 20th and 21st centuries means standing up against any form of fascism, whatever you call it. national socialism is fascism, whatever you call it. (interjection from mr coburn: ‘tell that to honecker’)
commissioner, i come from a country which knows very well what fascism is. we still have a foundation named after dictator franco, we still have the summer residence, the pazo de meirás. like this t-shirt, like this t-shirt that i saw that represents 19 people who were peacefully in the residence of the dictator franco and who are now in justice, a justice that allows. the foundation is an apologist for fascism and should be outlawed, i repeat, outlawed. we are thus defending the historical memory group in the european parliament and the valley of the fallen. commissioner, like so many of the questions we have already asked, against fascism: zero tolerance. unfortunately, there are a good number of fascists represented in this parliament.
mr president, in asturias, my region, we have been experiencing in recent weeks a campaign of harassment of our public officials, which has been intensified and amplified following the murder of our councillor in one of our municipalities. i would like to express my sorrow at this savage crime: because they could not with the blows to the head, they ended up strangling him. now, other officials of my party in another municipality, also in asturias, have had to endure threats three days after this murder, there have also been death threats against our mayoress and, three days later, another councillor of ours had his car destroyed and painted the acronym of "rest in peace". i myself, during my time as mayor, received anonymous threats and even had my dog shot dead inside my house. the culprits were never found. he never put any effort into it. that is why, in the face of this situation which so many of our colleagues are suffering from my party - and also, it must be said, from other political forces - we must be aware that democracy itself is at stake. and politics is not possible under threat, blackmail or coercion.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, thank you, mrs jourová, for coming here today, because we are talking about the free movement of persons, which has been one of the main historical flags of the european union. however, this freedom is perverted when a european citizen moves to another country of the union and loses his right to vote in his country of origin. this is the case in several member states - including the united kingdom - which withdraw the right to vote from citizens when they change their residence. what would have happened to brexit if the million britons living in other eu countries had been able to vote in that referendum? and there is also the case of countries like spain, which do not withdraw the right to vote, but create procedures so complex that it is practically impossible to exercise it. it's called a "pleaded vow". it is profoundly anti-european that there are borders for fundamental rights, that when a european changes his residence within the union he becomes a second-class citizen. it's in our hands to prevent it.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, in recent years we have indeed observed in the committee on petitions of this parliament a sad reality in which the right to vote, a basic political right, is systematically denied to millions of citizens of the union. in my country, for example, the reform of the organic law on electoral regimes has helped to prevent 95% of people living abroad from taking part in elections because of the administrative barriers that exist. the techniques used, seen in other countries as well, include begging votes, impossible deadlines, complex consular procedures, paying one's own expenses for sending the vote, loss of voting documentation, lack of staff in consulates, and so on. voting has become a trial for more than two and a half million people living outside spain. so as elected representatives we demand that the states respect democratic principles, remove all possible barriers and that the commission make a comprehensive assessment of the observance of electoral laws on the basis of its powers. failure to take action means robbing the citizenry of the possibility of expressing themselves, and robbing the system even more of the legitimacy it has.
mr president, the right to vote is a fundamental right and is recognised in the treaties themselves. moreover, when we talk about european citizenship, it is essential to guarantee the right to political participation. voting is a basic civil right; it is by no means a privilege. we have received many requests from the committee on petitions, pointing out the difficulties in exercising this fundamental right in some countries of the union: in germany, denmark, cyprus, malta, ireland and the united kingdom; in spain and portugal, difficulties due to the obstacles to exercising this right. it is necessary to guarantee this political participation if we are to achieve the fulfilment of european values. in this sense, it seems that in spain the obstacles to the exercise of this right to vote are being removed. the latest news is that the request for a vote by rollcall is to be abolished so that it can last for four years; the deadlines for the documentation to reach the elector are to be extended; in addition to the consulates, the cervantes institutes, the regional houses, the houses of spain and other centres are to be set up to facilitate the right to vote, and it will always be tried to ensure that guarantees and transparency make this political participation possible to the maximum. it is true that the problem of voting abroad is more complex because there is more vulnerability and it is more difficult to guarantee transparency, but it is essential to work from the commission, the council and the member states to ensure that the free movement of european citizens, which is one of the union's achievements, never impedes the right to political participation. we must ensure - and i believe that the commission and the council can do a great deal in this regard - that the electoral participation of the diaspora ceases once and for all to be the ashes of democracy.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, you have invited the presidency to take part in this debate. to begin with, i would like to underline the importance of common values, such as democracy, the rule of law and human rights, as cornerstones of the european union. it is crucial that every member state respects, protects and promotes them. values like the rule of law and the separation of powers are not negotiable and have to be at the heart of our attention. it is of great importance to stay in constant dialogue and to cooperate in order to ensure the best standards and conditions for all citizens. the council addressed the situation in romania in its conclusions on the cooperation and verification mechanism adopted on 12 december 2017. the council reiterated the importance for romania of focusing on further consolidation and fully addressing the concerns in the recommendations set out by the commission in its report on progress achieved in romania under the cooperation and verification mechanism. of great value, too, are the widely acknowledged opinions of the venice commission. the presidency is aware that the romanian authorities are in constant contact with both the venice commission and the european commission to find solutions to the issues raised. i trust that all sides are taking the issues raised in this dialogue seriously, as they go to the heart of our commitment to this union. in this sense we hope that the ongoing exchange between the romanian authorities and the commission will continue to prove efficient in addressing these issues in a manner that leaves no doubt about our core values. i will listen attentively to your debate and to the romanian prime minister’s intervention.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, we last discussed the state of the rule of law in romania in february, and today is a useful opportunity to take stock of the developments which have taken place in the months since. i’ll try to be as concise as i can. we are all aware that the initiatives taken by the romanian authorities since 2017 concerning the reform of the justice laws, the criminal procedure and criminal codes and the processes regarding the judiciary have led to concerns from a wide range of stakeholders, both inside and outside romania and the eu. many romanians are worried that the proposed changes to these laws may undermine the longstanding efforts in the fight against corruption and the independence of the judiciary. these are concerns that the commission very much shares. as guardian of the treaties, when it comes to the application of eu law and respect for the eu’s fundamental values, the commission intervenes on the basis of accurate and thorough legal analysis. it focuses on concrete national measures and engages in a dialogue with the authorities. in these matters, the commission is politically colour-blind and clinical in our approach. that is the case for romania just as much as for any other member state. with your permission, i will set out the main developments in romania. first, regarding the justice laws: the three justice laws, dating back to 2004, define the status of magistrates and organise the judicial system and the superior council of magistracy. at the end of last year, the laws were amended by the romanian parliament. these amendments have been challenged several times before the constitutional court. these laws have attracted criticism from institutions inside romania and from outside. the council of europe anti—corruption watchdog, greco, adopted a very critical report in march. the venice commission’s preliminary opinion, issued in july, was equally critical, raising serious concerns about the independence of the judiciary, its efficiency and its quality. it made a series of recommendations. the final opinion is expected to be adopted later this month. i know this house will pay as close attention to that opinion as we will at the commission, but unfortunately the fact is that the romanian parliament has so far not shown signs of responding to the opinions and recommendations. secondly, as concerns the overhaul of the criminal codes and the code of criminal procedures, in may the romanian parliament launched a procedure to amend the criminal code and the code of criminal procedures. they were passed in the months of june and july. the romanian law enforcement authorities, as well as other member states, expressed their concerns. the amendments have been challenged before the constitutional court, and judgments are expected in mid-october. the venice commission is preparing another opinion on these amended codes, which is also expected to be adopted later in october. these laws are crucial for the capacity of prosecutors to investigate, and judges to sentence, high-level corruption, as well as for the ability of the judicial system to pursue crime effectively. the climate needed for reform has deteriorated due to the secret protocols between the prosecution and the intelligence services. i call on the romanian authorities to conduct full and impartial investigations into this issue. romanians deserve a law enforcement order with all authorities properly supervised and full judicial independence. the reforms of the judicial laws and of the criminal codes are interlinked, and they must be prevented from having a negative impact on the independence of the judiciary and its effectiveness in combating corruption. that is why the commission has discussed this issue regularly with the romanian government at the highest level and has made its concerns public. we have examined the texts passed by the romanian parliament to fully assess their impact. we are seeking further clarification on how specific elements of these laws should be interpreted. thirdly, as concerns a procedure to dismiss the chief anti-corruption prosecutor and the evaluation of the general prosecutor, i would like to recall that the track record of the anti-corruption prosecution, the so-called dna, was a central reason for the more positive assessment of romania that the commission made back in our cooperation and verification mechanism (cvm) report in january 2017. (applause) moreover, robust and independent procedures for the dismissal and appointment of top prosecutors have always been a key element in our recommendations. the commission has also recommended that the romanian authorities seek the help of the venice commission in this matter. this remains one of the outstanding recommendations under the cooperation and verification mechanism. we are following the latest developments in romania with concern. the independence of romania’s judicial system and its capacity to fight corruption effectively are essential cornerstones of a strong romania in the european union. we have seen substantial progress in the past, but things are now moving backwards in a way that would be damaging for the place that romania has built as an eu member state in recent years. the commission has repeatedly called on the romanian authorities to rethink their course of action, and to build a broad consensus on the way forward, and i want to reiterate that call today. i would stress once again that the commission is always ready to cooperate with and support the romanian authorities in this process. i trust this dialogue will continue, and we will be meticulous and precise in all the elements of the proposals that we would like to discuss with the romanian authorities. the latest developments are a source of growing concern for the commission. if adopted without changes, the combined effect of the amended justice laws and the criminal codes would affect the capacity of the justice system, including the prosecution service, to effectively fight against corruption and other crimes. this means backtracking from the situation that led the commission to make a positive assessment in our report of january 2017. we will report on the situation in our next cvm report next month. you can see what our cvm progress report stated in january 2017 and what it did in the last report in november 2017. the situation has deteriorated. rest assured that all developments will be thoroughly assessed and reflected in our upcoming report. president juncker and i issued a joint statement in january this year, setting out our concerns on the direction of travel. we stated clearly at that point that the irreversibility of the progress achieved so far under the cvm is an essential precondition to phase out the mechanism. without that, we cannot phase out the mechanism. so, while we will continue pursuing our objective of a sustainably positive situation in a dialogue with the romanian authorities, i wish also to be clear today that the commission will draw the appropriate conclusions if the amendments to the justice law, criminal codes and laws on conflict of interest and corruption are promulgated without taking account of the concerns. concretely, this means following up our recommendations from the january 2017 cvm report, and the recommendations expressed by the venice commission and greco. as the guardian of the treaties, we will not hesitate to take action, where necessary, to ensure compatibility with the treaties. indeed, the commission will use all the means at its disposal, be it under cvm or otherwise. the commission urges romania to put the reform process back on track immediately. this means going forwards, not backwards, and abstaining from any steps which reverse the progress accomplished over the past years. i honestly think there is still an opportunity to turn things around. the laws are not yet promulgated, and therefore it is not yet too late for the romanian institutions to act to turn the situation around. as always, we stand ready to help, but the responsibility and the power to deliver change lie firmly with the romanian institutions. i call again on them to take the right steps now. (applause)
prime minister of romania. mr president, mr first vice-president, honourable members of the european parliament, on behalf of romania, i thank you for your invitation. i've said from the beginning that i'm not here to give an account. i came because i value and respect you. but i demand the same esteem and the same respect for the romanian people, whom i represent. i start with a fundamental question: for whom do we want to build a viable justice system in romania? for the mcv? for the institutions? for the magistrates? for the politicians? obviously not. we must do justice to the citizens, they are the beneficiaries of the measures in the european parliament or in the national parliaments. citizens are the place to start any discussion. justice must be the guarantee that laws and citizens' rights are respected, and those who violate them will be punished. it is legitimate to ask: in what way has mcv protected romanian citizens from the serious violation of their rights? in the mcv reports there was a lot of talk about institutions, about the appointment of magistrates, about the fight against corruption. that's all very well, but i haven't seen anything about human rights violations, about secret protocols between intelligence services and judicial institutions. under these protocols, millions of romanians were placed under surveillance by the secret services in the name of fighting corruption. there are court decisions that show how evidence was falsified, how transcripts of intercepts were altered to create guilt, or how witnesses were blackmailed into giving false testimony. nothing about these things in the mcv reports. this does not mean - or rather it means - that this mechanism has failed in its purpose for which it was created and i am officially asking you to tell us who wrote the cvm reports, who provided the data and who omitted, through negligence or bad faith, these inconceivable realities in the european union. if we are honest, we have to start with these serious abuses, because they are taking place on the territory of the european union. the venice commission said that in the soviet system, the public prosecutor's office was a powerful means of controlling the judiciary. in the last four years, over three thousand magistrates have been investigated by dna. in practice, half of the romanian magistrates had years of files through which they were probably influenced to give settled solutions outside the courtroom. it's not just me saying it. the romanian associations of magistrates say this with great concern. on the basis of such falsified files, a judge of the constitutional court, a vice-president of the superior council of magistracy, four judges of the high court, several judges of higher courts, a general prosecutor, a head of the superior public prosecutor's office were removed from office. eventually, they were all acquitted or the cases were closed, but they were removed. the new justice laws restore the independence of judges. no political decision-maker interferes anymore in the appointment and dismissal of judges. the independence is total, not restricted in any way, and i assure you that we are in good faith and will take into account the recommendations of the venice commission. there is, however, a good side to this meeting. today i have informed you all, officially, about the abuses in romania. from now on, you can no longer ignore these things, you can no longer talk about justice in romania without talking about these abuses, unless you make a political game that has nothing to do with justice. ask yourself why you've been kept from these things. why didn't they tell you anything, if it was all legitimate and legal? ask yourself these questions before you raise a stone against romania. about the august 10th rally, i'll say just a few words. i see that the romanian gendarmerie is being accused of intervening in an unauthorized rally against violent protesters who tried to occupy the government building. we did not see the same attitude towards last week's event in brussels or towards other rallies in france, spain, germany, the uk, when the police intervened with exactly the same means and procedures as those used in romania. i cannot accept in any way that the romanian gendarmerie is accused of actions and procedures practiced everywhere in europe. finally, i ask you this: do not forbid romania what is allowed in other states of the union and do not allow things to happen in romania that are unacceptable in other member states. we want to be your partners, but we want to be your equal partners. no one will ever be able to turn romania off its european course. thank you. thank you.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to welcome prime minister dăncilă to this parliament, which is also the parliament of the romanian people. we are not here to be a court, that is not the role of parliament, and it never should be. we are here to discuss issues that affect all of us, no matter where we come from – and the independence of the judicial power and the rule of law are indeed european issues of that kind. when romania joined the union in 2007 romanian judges became european judges. this means that they have to defend not only romanian law but also european law, and that we have to defend them. europe is not a single market only. we are also a community of shared values and, when our countries signed the treaties, we signed up to those values too – to all of them. so this is not an east-west issue, this is a european issue. i am telling you this as a representative for spain, a southern country that has had its own democratic transition. we know how difficult the shift is from dictatorship to democracy. it takes time, it requires sacrifices, it causes pain, it is a difficult journey. that is why we cannot understand the changes proposed by your government, which are putting in danger the balance of powers and the independence of justice in romania. that is why we cannot understand the extreme reaction of your government on that tragic day of 10 august, when thousands of romanians from the diaspora were trying simply to be heard. and it is why we cannot understand the silence and the complicity of those who are concerned about the rule of law in some countries but not in others. of course, you can ignore our criticism, but you should never ignore the voice of your own people. romanians fought for their liberties against communism. they tore down a tyranny and built up a democracy. they are a brave and a decent people, prime minister, and you are ignoring them. tell me, why don’t you want to listen to your people? tell me, what interests are hidden behind the actions of your government? tell me, what are you afraid of? that’s what this parliament wants and needs to know. listen to the people’s voice, prime minister. they just want integrity, transparency and justice. they just want to have a better future in their own country – not outside it. nothing more, but nothing less. prime minister, you have two options: you can listen to this parliament, you can listen to the commission, you can listen to the romanian parliament, you can listen to your people; or you can ignore all the democratic controls. but, with all due respect, this parliament will remain and it will wait by the side of the noble and proud people of romania. there is not another option for us. you should understand that. (applause)
mr president, prime minister, the european parliament is not a foreign power in romania, because it represents the romanian people and because you come from this european parliament. that is why he understands very well how much we are concerned about the rule of law and fundamental rights. we encourage you in your fight against corruption, but you make a difference in the behaviour of the governments of hungary and poland. you follow the criteria of the venice commission. because in the fight against corruption, we need an independent judiciary and a prosecutor's office that is free from interference with the government. but, in addition, a referendum is taking place in romania this sunday, with the stated aim of preventing the mere legal possibility of marriage between persons of the same sex. i encourage you to have the courage to tell the romanian citizens that you do not want any discrimination in the enjoyment of rights on equal terms for your country.
mr president, mr prime minister, i have listened to your words with great attention and i notice an absence and a contradiction in your speech. the absence that has surprised me most is that we do not talk - when we talk about the future of europe - about social europe, social policy, the social pillar, because there are many europeans who only believe in europe if there is a social europe. and the contradiction is that all the aspirations you mentioned for a europe that protects, for a europe that confronts cyber warfare, that advances in the digital market, for a europe that solves migration issues, and so on, need more financial resources, mr prime minister, and, in the multiannual framework, in the framework of the contributions of the states, there is a willingness not to contribute more money. my concern is: what is your opinion of such a short multiannual framework for achieving so many important objectives?
mr president, you have spoken of the fourth industrial revolution and i would like to know what proposals you have on the table to combat the enormous unemployment which has already been said, already acknowledged, that it will generate, or is generating. i would also like to know if you have any projects to work on the culture of peace. i have heard a lot about strengthening militarism, strengthening security, but you have said nothing about what you are going to do to create the culture of peace. and finally, i would like to ask you what your plans are for combating inequality between women, for combating the 'huge gender gap', for combating gender violence and also against poverty, and if you are going to make any proposals for the distribution of wealth.
mr president, i would like to say the following to prime minister ratas. prime minister, you started your speech this morning with a reminder of former times in which the baltics were under someone else’s influence. but then came the day when when estonians were eager to embrace the values of the european union: the rule of law, democracy and unity in diversity. you made a case for the future – the digital single market, foreign policy, defence – but the near future is the upcoming elections of 2019. let us face it, the european union is more divided than ever: north, south, east and west; and winners and losers. so we urge you, prime minister ratas, to make the case to uphold the political will for estonians to be part of the enhanced cooperation to make a better europe than this, to make it better, to make it right, to push the european union forward in the coming elections of 2019, and to fight populism, just as you said.
the competent authorities of sweden have informed the president of the election of mr sellström as a member of the european parliament to replace mr adaktusson, with effect from 3 october 2018. i therefore welcome the new member and remind him that he will take up his seat in parliament and its bodies with full rights under the conditions laid down in the rules of procedure.
i have not received any request for a vote in parliament under rule 69c (2) on the econ committee's decisions to open interinstitutional negotiations, announced at the opening of the sitting on monday 1 october. the econ commission can therefore open negotiations.
mrs moi, there is no place for the use of the word to address this matter.
we now move on to the voting. (for the results and other details of the vote, see minutes)
the rapporteur. mr president, i thank the house for its support for the report and i would ask that it be referred to the committee on the environment to begin interinstitutional negotiations.
we have now reached the end of the voting period.
mr president, i would like to express my pleasure at the adoption of the dalli report on emission control, which is a milestone in the contribution of the road transport industry to the fight against climate change. i would like to stress the importance of putting an end to the traps in co2 measurements, because measurements were not confined to the laboratory, and i hope that there will be no more dieselgate in this sense. and in that sense it is positive that we have approved awards for those who exceed the minimum targets for the sale of zero or low emission vehicles, and punishments, too, for those who do not. on the other hand, it is important that this transition be gradual, that it be realistic and that we prevent our manufacturers from experiencing that fearful nokia effect or nokia moment, whereby an industry either makes a leap forward or is irremediably doomed to die. and i would like to stress, lastly, the importance of green job creation. this transition means a reduction of 1% in jobs in this sector, but it means the creation of tens of thousands of new, more sustainable jobs in industry.
we shall conclude with the explanations of vote.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, mrs thyssen, thank you very much for discussing our affairs. the minimum income or the minimum income of insertion, or some model of minimum income, which there are many, is already recognized in the pillar of social rights and a year ago, almost every day, parliament said that it is a fundamental instrument to fight against poverty. so there's not much to talk about. what you have to do is get down to business. of course the commission has done things, but perhaps, as part of all that needs to be done on the social pillar, it should step up its efforts, and it should step up its efforts because what the minimum income does is to tackle a very hard problem, which is poverty. it is unacceptable that the rich areas of the world should still be able to maintain pockets of poverty. and we have to attack this. studies show that minimum income systems are effective in this. and that said, and the alde group fully supports that right and the intelligent implementation of that right, it is necessary to speak precisely about the fact that this is in the hands of the countries and what the commission can do, and i would say urgently. in that field, it is clear that the minimum income is just one more measure to help people's inclusion. why would you do that? because the second point i am making is obvious to the alde group: we do not believe in assisted societies. they are unworthy. we don't believe in people with aids. it has to be transitory and everything has to go to get them out of there. second point. clearly, minimum incomes must be at the service of the cohesion of nations and of europe, because otherwise it is an economic disaster. you have done very well in pointing out in the european semester for spain how the regionalization of minimum incomes, for example, is a factor of exclusion and brutal inequality. and that has to be subject to the commission's supervision. and finally, the funding. we should not be afraid to talk about european solidarity funding in these areas.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that we want to produce, produce and produce more, and then we do not give anyone the means to consume what we produce. looks like we're caught up in some kind of marx brothers joke. we want to protect and protect our borders, but then we don't protect ourselves and each other. there are many people around us, there are many people in europe - tens of millions of people - who cannot afford a decent home, who cannot afford adequate food, who cannot afford their children's textbooks, or who cannot afford heating in winter. minimum income is not a privilege, it's an emergency. it certainly should not be a charity, but a right. because, ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: europe has no future unless we leave millions of people behind. the right to life, the right of our people to a guaranteed existence, must be the backbone of the union, of our union.
madam president, madam commissioner, in the course of the debate, do we intend to create a universal aid for people by virtue of being citizens? i'm not sure. what are we trying to do? we want to create a new safety net that protects people from adversity; that when a person has lost unemployment and all economic aid, by redistributing wealth through the public authorities we create a new safety net to prevent them from falling into poverty. we've been pretending that since when? precisely since a situation of vulnerability close to poverty is created. how long? until you are able to find a job and, of course, linked to the will to find a job. but i think we have to be aware that creating a minimum income is a new instrument - which is true that we have enshrined in the social pillar - that what it does is give more dignity to democratic societies, because it is not only a measure of social justice, it is also a measure of economic efficiency and a measure that prevents many people from disconnecting from democratic systems precisely because democracy has taken away their last chance, has left them to fall into the abyss of economic crises or economic recessions. but, mrs thyssen, i share your good words, but we need more than good words. we need political activity, political initiative. we have created and enshrined the minimum income within the social pillar and this also allows us to enshrine it as a european policy by calling for a directive to regulate, to oblige the member states to develop minimum income systems. we cannot consecrate the social pillar, the minimum income, within the social pillar and leave it to political inactivity in the european union. we have the possibility of creating a directive which will allow the development of income systems with a certain degree of homogeneity throughout the european union, in all the member states. because, commissioner, we need to share responsibility. we all agree that it is a good instrument for promoting social justice and economic efficiency. if we are all in agreement, let us all make words become deeds.
madam president, europe is one of the richest societies in the world; therefore, we cannot allow people to live in poverty here. to put an end to this social scandal, europe would have to take a step forward, on the same level as it did with social security after the second world war. i did! let us commit ourselves at european level to a universal basic income as a sign of identity for europe in the 21st century. there are people in poverty who don't have jobs, and jobs, like care, that are not recognized. in addition, there are profound technological changes that change the concept of work, and also other ways of contributing to society that go beyond production and consumption. universal basic income is a response to these challenges and, above all, it is a great opportunity to bring our continent together after the 2008 crisis, to give it a new fair and sustainable impetus and to be, again, an example to this world. i hope the european commission will study this.
madam president, the best response to the populisms that are tearing europe apart is to make our union a useful project for the people, to put the people at the centre of public policies. and that means developing the social pillar, combating the risk of exclusion and poverty and maintaining social cohesion. in short, values which have been part of the european project from the outset. the principles that my party sponsored as a sign of identity for this project, as attested by our contributions to the hague congress and the new international teams. they were defended by a politician, the aguirre, who was reprised by francoism, who preached social policy by example. he made his own company, chocolates bilbaínos, a reference of advanced social management in the 1930s. today, if we are to be faithful to this hallmark of the european project, we must bet on income from insertion. these are programs that help to bail out people with the same determination that has been used to bail out banks. this is how the current lehendakari of the basque country described it. the basque country, true to its social vocation, invests annually almost 40% of the total amount spent in the spanish state in programmes of this type, whereas we represent only 4% of the total population. the experience of more than 25 years of operation of our income guarantee scheme shows that providing this support to people without any resources, to workers with precarious jobs or pensioners with low incomes reduces to a minimum exclusion, marginalisation and the risk of poverty. it encourages access to or integration into the labour market and mitigates social breakdown and protects integration. that is why we support the idea of a european project.
madam president, the figures are clear. there is enough wealth in the world to guarantee the dignity of people, it just needs to be distributed better. i support a universal, european basic income so that no one is condemned to live in poverty or accept jobs in increasingly precarious conditions, i support free, universal, quality public services for all, policies to provide affordable housing, an end to tax evasion and tax avoidance, decent retirement pensions guaranteed by public budgets, shorter working hours and a better distribution of work, decent wages and decent farm prices for farmers and for farmers too. we will thus be able to combat poverty at european level, because poverty, too, commissioner, has a face of women, of the unemployed, of young people, of children and of retired people.
in writing. the socialists reiterate our demand to the commission and eu governments for the implementation of a directive regulating and obliging member states to develop minimum income systems. it is a moral and legal obligation in europe to assist people at risk of poverty and it is imperative to implement point 14 of the social pillar of this proposal. we call for a new safety net to protect europeans from adversity, and to be applied in the event of loss of unemployment or of all economic aid. the development of a uniform income system throughout the eu is essential as a measure of social justice and also of economic efficiency. it would also prevent citizens from being disconnected from democratic systems, because it would prevent the public authorities from pushing citizens into poverty. the minimum income must be linked to the willingness to enter the labour market, it must be applicable from the time when one enters the poverty line until one finds a job.
in writing. the socialists reiterate our demand to the commission and the member states for the implementation of a directive regulating and obliging them to develop minimum income systems. it is a moral and legal obligation in europe to assist people at risk of poverty and it is imperative to implement point 14 of the social pillar of this proposal. we call for a new safety net to protect europeans from adversity, and to be applied in the event of loss of unemployment or of all economic aid. the development of a uniform system throughout the eu is essential as a measure of social justice and also of economic efficiency. it would also prevent citizens from being disconnected from democratic systems, because it would prevent them from falling into poverty. the minimum income must be linked to the willingness to enter the labour market, it must be applicable from the time when one enters the poverty line until one finds a job. minimum income policies must also be combined with universal and quality social protection systems. this combination must be at the heart of european policies.
in writing. the socialists reiterate our demand to the commission and eu governments for the implementation of a directive regulating and obliging member states to develop minimum income systems. it is a moral and legal obligation in europe to assist people at risk of poverty and it is imperative to implement point 14 of the social pillar of this proposal. we call for a new safety net to protect europeans from adversity, and to be applied in the event of loss of unemployment or of all economic aid. the development of a uniform income system throughout the eu is essential as a measure of social justice and also of economic efficiency. the minimum income must be linked to the willingness to enter the labour market, it must be applicable from the time when one enters the poverty line until one finds a job. minimum income policies must also be combined with universal and quality social protection systems. this combination of social protection and a guarantee of adequate income must be at the heart of european policies.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president... congratulations axel! eurojust is essential to respond effectively to the challenge of crossborder organised crime, terrorism, smuggling of migrants or cybercrime. this reform will make eurojust more efficient and will enable it to strengthen cooperation between member states in criminal justice matters. eurojust has facilitated coordination and cooperation between national tax and investigative authorities in dealing with cases affecting several member states. it has also helped to build mutual trust and to connect the whole range of legal instruments in the european union. eurojust's adaptation to the establishment of the new prosecutor's office as well as to the new data protection regulations for the institutions should be complete. the socta 2017 organised crime report identified five thousand organised crime groups operating and under investigation in the european union, an increase of one thousand four hundred groups over 2013. this indicates that a better and coordinated response is needed for the union, both at police and judicial level, to address the threat of terrorism, drug trafficking, cybercrime, migrant smuggling or child pornography. eurojust is a key tool for enhanced cooperation and coordination between the judicial authorities of the member states, the new prosecutor's office and also with other agencies such as europol, as well as with third countries. it is important that working arrangements between europol and eurojust are made so that both agencies can share information and data, especially now that we are entering the stage of interoperability and the european search portal. finally, eurojust must remain a key agency in the fight against all forms of organised crime and crime.
madam president, commissioner jourová, since the creation of eurojust in 2002, it was clear that this agency was to be one of the great promises of the area of freedom, security and justice that was decisively enshrined in the treaty of lisbon in 2009. it was therefore time for us to have a new regulation, which the commission pushed in 2013 to strengthen its operational effectiveness, its governance model, but also the incardination of the national members of eurojust. but the goal is what you can't lose sight of. the aim is to strengthen mutual trust and mutual recognition of judicial decisions in the prosecution of serious and, in particular, transnational crime. and to keep mutual trust alive it is very important that there is mutual respect between the judicial authorities of the member states. i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware of the fact that the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. child pornography, cybercrime, drugs. i mean, you know, the target cannot be lost sight of. but i would also add that the great importance of eurojust having this new regulation which re-establishes it as a genuine judicial cooperation agency in criminal matters of the european union is made clear by the fact that even member states which have decided to exclude themselves from the instrument, such as the united kingdom and denmark, are obliged to sign cooperation agreements, because the objective can no longer be achieved by any member state, it has to be achieved by showing political will at european level.
madam president, congratulations to you, nathalie. the confiscation of assets resulting from criminal activities is an effective tool in combating crime and terrorism, but nothing is confiscated, almost nothing. it is therefore essential to ensure the effectiveness of the seizure and confiscation of criminal assets throughout the union and to prevent criminals from taking advantage of loopholes in the union to move their assets and thereby circumvent the orders in this regard. the seizure and confiscation of the proceeds of crime are among the most effective means of combating organised crime. however, there is a need to improve coordination between member states. it is essential to swiftly block the flow of money to and from criminal organisations and to improve the speed and efficiency of the procedures for recognising freezing and confiscation orders. the reinforcement of the principles proposed in this regulation, such as the recognition and enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, is therefore essential to reduce the scourge of all forms of organised crime. what i have just said is the cornerstone of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. it is also important to mention the possibility of carrying out a preventive confiscation when it is certain that there is a link with criminal activity; and, in addition, the notion of necessity and proportionality must be a constant, as included in the text, in the resolutions we are discussing today. finally, mutual recognition of procedures and improving the efficiency of seizure and confiscation are, together with the fight against money laundering and the detection of illicit cash movements, the essential instruments to combat the financing of crime and terror.
madam president, commissioner, a regulation, a directly binding european law in this package of measures to strengthen the european union in its fight against transnational crime and terrorism. i would like to add my voice to the appreciation of the work of our rapporteur, nathalie. but i am concentrating on the integration of this initiative with the one we discussed earlier, eurojust. and the european public prosecutor's office. and the directive on the protection of the union's financial interests, for which i had the honour of being rapporteur. but i would stress again that this must be based on the mutual recognition of judicial decisions on the confiscation, confiscation and seizure of property derived from criminal activity and crime. and that recognition must take place on the basis of mutual trust in a general way so that exceptions are assessed, based solely on exceptional circumstances, on the weighting of the individual case, on the impact on fundamental rights and on consultation with the requesting state. i also stress the importance of efficient management of such assets in compensating victims and protecting the families of victims and reusing for social purposes all confiscated assets and assets from the fight against crime and organised crime.
mr president, once again banks are proving to be one of the weak links in the european economy: the very banks that have been bailed out with public money; banks that are allowed near-zero corporate taxes and that public discourse considers it a priority to help and protect. these same banks are the ones who are massively organising tax evasion and money laundering, taking refuge in a structure of tax havens which are the real black hole of european finance. despite this, the european commission has refused to include any eu country - such as malta or luxembourg, which systematically act in favour of the big fortunes with opacity - in the blacklist of tax havens. ladies and gentlemen, without a clear will to face up to this reality, any attempt to combat tax evasion and money laundering is a blank piece of paper. ladies and gentlemen, wet paper.
mr president, two trillion dollars a year are laundered in the world, and europe is a black hole of a million. 2018 has been the year of the ablv, versobank, pilatus, danske bank scandals, which have reflected an immense deficiency in the european control and regulation regime. we have a totally fragmented control system and no coordination at eu level. the measures presented by the commission are a step forward: to give more powers to the eba and, in the revision of the capital requirements directive, to link the supervision of capital requirements also to the fight against money laundering, but we must go much further. and it is very important to have a specialised agency that investigates, that gathers information, that coordinates with the secret services in order to combat this phenomenon, as it is also that we go all the way and control not only the financial sector but also other activities that have to do with laundering: accountants, law firms, and so on and so forth. and finally, more resources must be provided to eba and the commission itself to deal with this problem.
mr president, i think it is important to remember that black money is the origin, or consequence, of many more evils or dangers than the mere threat to financial stability. it's the source of problems for our health, for our democracy, even for peace. the fight against money laundering has its origins in the fight against drug trafficking and terrorism, and we must take this opportunity to tackle other sectors affected by black money. i have two suggestions for the commissioner today. firstly, all european banks already have powerful research services on the origin of money, and these experiences, these best practices, must be incorporated into the european agency to make it better able to do its job. and secondly, we must contact the american anti-money laundering agency, because this american experience is the origin of the effectiveness of the fight against black money throughout the world. it's a global struggle that needs to be tackled globally.
mr president, money laundering is a huge economic problem but also a risk for security and financial stability in the european union. the huge amount of dirty money flowing into europe is a scandal and has to be urgently tackled. what we can see in recent money laundering cases around europe is that often, even if the legislation is in place, the rules are not properly supervised and implemented. enforcement is carried out by different national authorities that often have different standards and sometimes do not cooperate enough. thus the commission must ensure that anti—money laundering rules are timely and consistently transposed, implemented and enforced in the eu member states. i welcome the new anti—money laundering responsibilities that are to be entrusted to the european banking authority, but i believe we should move towards centralised enforcement with a separate eu authority – a kind of european financial intelligence unit. this would definitely improve the consistency and effectiveness of the legislation.
mr president, commissioner jourová, we have shared with you this afternoon some of our important debates: eurojust, the confiscation of money from illicit business and now money laundering through the banking system in the european union. all this requires cooperation to deal with organised crime and the profits of the crimes that are committed. billions of euros are laundered through notorious cases in european banks - often from russia, the former soviet republics - but in any case, they teach very clear lessons: the absence of effective mechanisms, of cooperation agreements with third countries and, above all, the delay in managing the problem and the national scale of the response, which make it clear that we need a european, effective and high-quality banking supervision mechanism to send a very clear message to which european citizens have a right. no bank can be too big to fail - as the economic crisis has shown - but no bank can afford to be too powerful to be unsupervised.
the question of the 'blue card'. look, mr borghezio, i feel bad about intervening, but i'm going to do it because i was on a boat with mrs forenza, with mr urbán and with mr lópez when mr salvini's fascist government did not allow us to dock in a port. and so i would like to say to you, as a person, a member of this parliament, with enough dignity to have been in the mediterranean, that the statements you have just made about not allowing the government to allow a humanitarian ship to dock and leave it adrift for several days are a tremendous disgrace to you.
mr president, today we are discussing how to help local and regional authorities, who are the first to face the massive influx of immigrants that is overflowing southern european communities. i have witnessed three realities and seen thousands of people deceived by unscrupulous dealers. in lesbos (greece), i have seen the pain on the faces of many unaccompanied minors and of women and girls who are victims of trafficking; i have seen it in mineo (italy), where thousands of migrants spend months waiting for an asylum application that never arrives - like this young mother with her baby, "miracle", whom she named because she had survived. and i have seen it, commissioner, in spain - in my region, andalusia, in algeciras - where i have seen the efforts of the mayor and the local people, together with the maritime rescue service, the state security forces and the red cross, who are working tirelessly to save lives and to care for the thousands of migrants who arrive on our shores and in ceuta and melilla. that is why i call for greater coordination and distribution of european funds, so that they can help the local and regional authorities, who are the ones who receive and serve immigrants. we need a common european policy, one that does not leave room for the erratic decisions of national governments, which close and open borders at will and lose sight of the objective of fighting the mafias. only by cooperating with the countries of origin and transit can we stop the tragedy that i am ashamed of as a european. the european union has a duty to help the countries of the region to develop their economic and social cohesion. and i'm not that. i have a heart, but i also have a head, and i ask for political will to solve the migration challenge with the responsibility that citizens ask of us. and i do not want to give the populists and nationalists the immigration hammer, because with it they will destroy europe and, above all, its foundations and its values. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the question of the 'blue card'. even if i agree with some of what you said, teresa, i think we have to use language well. we have talked about the fact that the southern regions of europe are being overwhelmed by the arrival of immigrants on our shores. the data says this is the year with the fewest immigrants in the last five years. in fact, it is precisely a question which we consider to be important. and we have also said that we cannot accommodate all africa in europe. could you tell me the figure for those who have arrived in spain or those who have arrived in europe by sea this year?
the answer is 'blue card'. yes, miguel, i could tell you that more than thirty thousand have arrived in spain; miguel, i could tell you that i have been in algeciras and there are many, and you know it. i could tell you that in andalusia, in spain alone, there are over 11,000 unaccompanied minors. there are no centres in andalusia to house them; there are none, and we cannot have them. i could tell you that i've been to lesbos, that i've seen how crowded moria is, they're even attempting suicide, and i could tell you that elisabeth, who's from there. i could tell you how i've seen over two thousand desperate people in mineo. and as i have seen in many places, i do not want that, and neither do the european citizens. if you want africans to come here, i want them to live in their own countries and those who can really integrate should come.
mr president, commissioner, european immigration and asylum policies are so unsatisfactory because the states, which have responsibility for borders and visas, monopolize relations with the commission in determining immigration policies and the use of the asylum, migration and integration fund. the commission is not concerned whether the states adequately represent the position of cities and regions, the environment in which people live, the level at which services are provided and the integration of the new europeans is forged, person by person. a contribution of demography, talent and vital energy that our ageing continent needs. this is a waste of available opportunities and resources. that is why we ask many regions and cities here, and in all the forums available, to listen to these regions and cities. the basque leader conveyed this concern and concrete proposals to president juncker at their last meeting. the basque country will present the share initiative to the committee of the regions next week. a concrete mechanism at state, regional and local level for the responsibility for the reception to be shared according to three parameters: tax revenues, with a weight of 50%, population, with a weight of 30%, and unemployment, with a weight of 20%. we ask and we offer a compromise. we pushed for a social compact for immigration. we hope that the solidarity we feel on the street will reach directly into offices far above us and too sensitive to populist pressure and manipulation of statistics. please listen to this call for a europe of the people, of proximity, which wants to build this project by adding from the bottom up. it proposes a much more humane response than we are offering at the moment.
mr president, the long-running scandal of the european union's inefficiency in welcoming refugees and asylum seekers has been concentrated for many months in the mediterranean, where thousands of people have died, where we know that hundreds, thousands more will die. local and regional authorities, ngos and humanitarian initiatives have helped save many lives. the rational, the humanitarian thing would be to increase budgets and aid to institutions and groups, and a much greater involvement of the states working in networks and fighting those who negotiate with desperation. instead, humanitarian organizations are criminalized, paralyzed and persecuted and prevented from acting. the arrest of the mayor of riace yesterday clearly shows that the humanitarian emergency is turning against us and is also becoming an emergency of our own responsibility. if we continue on this path, many will lose their lives and we will lose our dignity.
mr president, in the crisis of reception in europe there have been two great heroes: the ngos and the volunteers - those who have worked in the mediterranean - and the local authorities. and they seem to be annoying. we have been pushing back on ngos in the mediterranean and now the latest is the persecution of a mayor like domenico lucano, to whom we want to send all our solidarity and for whom we ask for his immediate release, because he is an example of a person committed to hospitality and should be an example for everyone in europe. the local authorities are currently on the front line of the reception. if we take the example of the city of barcelona, "my city", the number of children in care has increased by 69% this year, and the number of unaccompanied minors in care has increased by 87%. that's a lot of data. and they don't have the instruments. the asylum, migration and integration fund, commissioner, is currently, for example in the case of spain, being used to a greater extent to finance, for example, frontex and concertinas than to finance and help the local authorities, because that money is not coming in. therefore, financial support to local communities, the use of the asylum, migration and integration fund must be reviewed, and also, in the new multiannual financial framework, new instruments to support local communities must be introduced.
mr president, today, 3 october, marks the fifth anniversary of the tragedy of lampedusa, a tragedy which left hundreds of people dead. five years later and 14 000 drownings - and let us say quickly: 14 000 drownings - we are still debating in this parliament the tragedy in the mediterranean, the emergency in the mediterranean. they're just words. meanwhile, the only public rescue operation, mare nostrum, has disappeared. it doesn't exist anymore. meanwhile, salvini's fascist government is closing its doors to search and rescue ngos. meanwhile, the european union criminalizes these ngos. it must be said that, despite this criminalization, mayday mediterráneo and proactiva open arms are still in the sar zone. and just yesterday we heard that the italian government had imprisoned the mayor of riace: a perfect example of welcoming. from here, our solidarity. all this, with 14,000 deaths on our backs. in the meantime, we are still talking, but what is needed is to change our policies, to turn europe around, that is to say, enough, enough. i don't know how they can sleep at night.
mr president, once again we have the enum debate in the european parliament on the humanitarian emergency in the mediterranean, only this time we are not talking about the tragedy, the death toll, which is now five years old, of the great death toll in lampedusa. i'm not sure. we are simply talking about how to help, how to support the local and regional authorities, who are giving themselves up on the front line in response to the absence, the failure of the european union and, above all, to the shame of the behaviour of some member state governments who are in a panic mode. we therefore have an obligation to discuss how to establish a chapter in the multiannual financial framework to help local and regional corporations. how to coordinate them, how to choose best practices among those local authorities. as the mayor of riace, who was infamously imprisoned - and who deserves the solidarity of this european parliament - precisely because he gave a humanitarian response at a time of need. we're also talking about how to help local corporations maintain integration, education, social assistance, first response, even healthcare, in the face of this tragedy. but above all, we are talking about the fact that this shows that we will take palliative measures as long as the states do not decide to comply with european law which they signed up to in the treaty of lisbon, with integrated management of the external borders and with solidarity and shared responsibility in the care of immigrants and asylum seekers and refugees. but what this clearly shows is that local and regional authorities tell us that citizens are way ahead of their governments in responding to the humanitarian emergency.
mr president, commissioner, you spoke of humanity. it is humanity that europe has lacked in lampedusa, in ceuta, in the alboran sea, in idomeni, in lesbos, in piraeus, in calais. the shame of europe, an embarrassing agreement with turkey. we need more humanity, not words. we've been talking for many years. people come in on the run for their lives. the states have failed, they have not dealt with them; what they have done is put up fences and walls, and the local authorities are the ones who have to give them food, housing, schools, medicines... for humanity, for that humanity, as the mayor of riace has done, saving lives and standing by those who suffer. and that is why european funds must be put to the right use, and that is why our group has tabled amendments to the future programme of the european social fund, amendments so that those who receive migrants can manage directly that house, that food, that shelter, that school and those possibilities of living on the run for their lives. today, there are very few ships left in the mediterranean, and those that remain have been thrown out, and the european union has also thrown them out with its silence, as when we wrote to you from there and they did not have the decency to reply to us because italy did not allow us to dock at the open arms.
mr president, in the matter of the reception and integration of immigrants, some cities and sub-state governments have fortunately taught a lesson to some, not all, but many governments of member states. lesson in solidarity, but also a lesson in efficiency. in catalonia, for example, we held the largest demonstration in europe last year in favour of taking in refugees. "casa nostra é casa vostra" (our house is your house), we used to say to them. but the refugees did not reach our cities, because the spanish government did not fulfil its commitments. more recently, the government of catalonia has offered its ports for the disembarkation of refugees, and right now, together with the municipalities, a major effort is being made to welcome and integrate unaccompanied and underage immigrants, who represent a very serious problem. in the light of these efforts, commissioner, i believe it is necessary and right that local and sub-national authorities should have direct access to european funds for the asylum and integration of people who come to live with us.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i really thank you, mr oettinger, that we are at least debating, even if only at night and lightly, vat as an own resource of the union. and we claim it here, once again. and we know, through the court of auditors, that, at least - at least since the 2015 report - member states lose around 50 billion euros annually in relation to vat fraud. and although it is true that the issue of the united kingdom and the fraud, which can amount to between two and three and a half billion, apart from unpaid duties on textile products, on textiles and footwear imported from china, is not the key element tonight - i even think that the commons have realised that, even if they get out of brexit, the problem will no longer be just european fraud, but may result in fraud even to the uk treasury itself; and it is good that they have heard - nevertheless, we absolutely need the commission to take action on the matter. i still remember the customs and port authorities in hamburg who recognised the difficulties they had in being able to fight this kind of fraud, which comes from imports from distant third countries, but which, by stopping at a port, manages to reach our major macro-ports and pass through the customs filters. that is why we are calling for the harmonization of customs controls, for it not to take ten years to recover the funds and, finally, for all the member states to participate in european taxation and for the commission to transfer national customs responsibilities to the european union. we support you in that, mr. oettinger. you be brave for it.
the question of the 'blue card'. i just wanted to ask you if you are aware that there has been a debate in the house of commons on this fraud and that your british counterparts in the house have discovered that the day brexit happens, you will have the problem, because vat fraud will affect her majesty's treasury. are you aware of that?
author. mr president, with this statement we are again faced with the double standard of this house. the resolution rightly underlines the repression in belarus and that this repression is an obstacle to any closer relations with the european union and wider participation in the eastern partnership. however, between 2014 and 2017, the european union's assistance package to belarus under the european neighbourhood instrument amounted to eur 91,5 million. the agreement focuses particularly on human mobility what if and seeks the outsourcing of eu border control to reduce migration flows by supporting, for example, the development of migrant detention centres. i mean, we recognize that human rights are being violated in belarus but we close our eyes and we pay them, and we pay a lot of money for that state that we say violates human rights to make us border police. all very consistent, your honours. we must remember that belarus lacks an asylum system and has handed over people seeking international protection to countries where they were at real risk of persecution. belarus is another example of how anything goes to reduce migration flows from the union. it is truly alarming that many political groups in this house have a double standard and have refused to include this in the resolution.
mr president, as we all know, belarus is a 21st century dictatorship, located in europe, and just as there is repression and threats against citizens who defend freedom and human rights in belarus, so there is repression and threats against the media who want to report freely on what is happening in that european country. there is a saying, mr. president, that god creates them and they come together, and the dictator lukashenko, interestingly, is a close friend of another dictator maduro, in venezuela and follows the same guidelines as maduro, in venezuela, with the media: he arrests journalists, attacks the media and persecutes them, like charter 97. the european institutions must act and warn belarus that it is crossing all the red lines, and that seriousness must lead to the imposition of sanctions on the government of dictator lukashenko in belarus.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, in 2015 ahmed mansur already denounced the detention by the uae authorities of people critical of the government. they were disappeared for months, used sexual violence and torture to extract confessions, and sentenced in trials without any guarantees. today, for his denunciations and posts on social networks, this human rights defender is imprisoned and has suffered torture. human rights violations in this supposedly allied country of the european union are rarely addressed. a country where under the umbrella of the fight against terrorism the most basic rights are violated; where the authorities arbitrarily restrict freedom of expression and penalize peaceful criticism of politicians or state officials; a place where weapons and cyber surveillance technologies provided by european companies are being used to carry out this repression. without our weapons, much of the repression there would not be possible. mansur himself was spied on with these programs. in fact, he argues that the cause of much of the violence in the region is desperation. and extremism grows when hope for peaceful change fades. we can't keep driving this hopelessness. we must demand the release of political prisoners, the immediate end to torture, and a real embargo on arms and surveillance equipment, because we cannot be complicit in the acts of repression and torture that are being committed in the united arab emirates. beyond statements, we must take sides. we need to get an arms embargo.
mr president, i welcome this resolution on the mass arbitrary detention of uyghurs and kazakhs in the xinjiang uyghur autonomous region. i also want to salute mr dolkun isa, president of the world uyghur congress. respect for universal human rights, democracy and the rule of law should remain at the centre of relations between the eu and china. this resolution condemns the increasingly suppressive regime that minorities, in particular uyghurs and kazakhs, face in china today. we call on the chinese government immediately to end the practice of mass arbitrary detentions, and to close all the camps in which one million people are arbitrarily imprisoned. an independent investigation mission should be allowed to visit xinjiang and tibet. our resolution also calls on the chinese government immediately to release uyghur scholar ilham tohti, and all other detainees. dear colleagues, china is a big country. it is also rich in ethnic and cultural minorities, from tibetans to uyghurs. it should not be scared of them. it should recognise and respect them. this would make china an even greater country. free uyghurs, free tibet, free china.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, today we have adopted in this parliament a resolution which is a historic step, a resolution in which we call for something urgent, and we do so more explicitly than ever before: that the european union should take the lead in the united nations in creating a treaty which obliges companies, particularly transnational companies, to respect human rights. from now on, whenever the delegation of the european union or any of its member states in the united nations impedes progress towards the treaty, whenever they threaten human rights, we will remind them that today, 4 october, the european parliament has said it clearly: voluntary corporate responsibility initiatives do not work, we must go further and create legislation and there must be sanctions for those who do not comply. there are no more good dogs. i also address the member states. the european parliament, that is to say the representatives who have elected your citizenship, are asking you to support the treaty. if you do not, you are failing this very citizenship because you are not representing it. spain, as a member of the human rights council, has an opportunity to make a difference. that is why i am confident that the government of pedro sánchez will actively participate in geneva, that it will have its own voice in defending the treaty and that it will not hide behind the delegation of the european union, as the pp government did. and i would like to thank the socialist group for its unwavering support. i would like to say a final word to those who voted against, to those who are now left alone because they do not want to support human rights. have you asked your voters what they think of a treaty like this? please, if even the holy see supports it! despite the fact that i have been in this parliament for four years now and have seen what you vote for, i still believe in common sense, i still believe in people, in all those who vote for you, and i know that today you would be on the side of human rights. today is a triumph for the vulnerable of the world.
madam president, the humanitarian emergency in yemen is unsustainable. three-quarters of the yemeni population - 20 million people - are at risk of death from malnutrition. and this is not the first resolution we have adopted in the european parliament on yemen, but the situation is still the same. because in the end, paper is just paper. because the reality is that some member states are still selling arms to saudi arabia, in violation of the common position on arms export controls which we voted in this parliament. among the governments with blood on their hands is the spanish government. the rajoy government, but also that of sánchez. spain is one of the main arms exporters to saudi arabia. you can't promise one thing in opposition and do the opposite in government. human rights are not negotiable. it is essential to promote a change in the production model so that the work of many families does not depend on the war economy. let us not vote on this in this parliament on wet paper.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this wednesday we are voting on the draft general budget of the european union for 2019. we women working here are asking for your support for budget lines 13 59 and 13 60, which is the only way to put into effect the concrete measures against sexual harassment which were approved by this house a year ago. if these amendments are not adopted, the resolution will have served no purpose. the european parliament must be at the forefront of this. society is leading us and showing us the way. so remember -- and i'll finish -- support lines 13 59 and 13 60. let's take our own commitments seriously and end sexual harassment in this house once and for all. comrades, for all of you, we will never walk alone again.
mr president, we could have a competition of pretty words and empty statements in this house. whenever we talk about climate change, most of the speakers (especially the commissioners with family members with swiss accounts) say that europe must be at the forefront and blah blah blah. however, if we look at the proposals and the votes, we see that there is a gap between the speeches and the practice. there is also the council, which always blocks the most ambitious measures. the ipcc report, which came out two weeks ago, confirms that the european union will not meet the target of limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees celsius. the european union is simply making some proposals which are only painted green. we don't need more words, we need more actions. fortunately, there are people who are already doing things: social movements for climate justice are setting us the high ambition that is required, and the municipalities of change in spain are the ones who are implementing the most climate change adaptation and mitigation measures right now. only with that commitment and that action can we fight climate change.
mr president, commissioners, preparing for the cop24 in december is a challenge for the union and for the other actors, the more than 180 parties who have already ratified the paris agreement, reached at cop21. after the previous cop23 in bonn and the tanaloa dialogue, we must bear in mind that the cop24 in katowice will probably be the first flying target of paris two years after its entry into force. two years that, according to the world meteorological organization, have been the warmest years on record. and not only that: this summer, the mediterranean has recorded tropical weather events with strong storms and winds that have hit the levantine coast of spain; events that coincide with the record of the worst drought experienced in central europe with serious effects on agriculture. this is climate change. it's not like we hear on the street that this year the weather has gone crazy. climate change is already here and it is our task to set and implement the measures and targets to reach the limit of one and a half degrees of global temperature increase. and it is also our job to take measures so that when these extreme events hit us, we are alert and as attenuated as possible. and it is also the task of the european union to continue to lead the world with ambition and realism in this fight.
madam president, the fight against climate change is an obligation, and it is even more so when we are constantly witnessing droughts, fires and floods - such as those that have just occurred in my country, spain. so we have to be ambitious. we must show, as the european union, leadership, ambition and determination. that too requires leading by example, and it would be good if the european union set itself a more ambitious target for reducing emissions by 2030. it is possible - after what we have done with the energy efficiency directive and the renewable energy directive - to at least go for a 45% emission reduction target. it is therefore necessary that we at this climate summit show that determination and that ambition to take steps and for the european union, once the united states has left us, to maintain that firm and determined pulse to combat climate change.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i see with satisfaction that the parliament’s reading of next year’s budget reverses almost all of the cuts proposed by the council. some of them being of an unprecedented scope and by no means justified by absorption capacity. thus, programmes related to some of our priorities – youth employment, research, biodiversity and climate, development cooperation, neighbourhood – will be reinforced, bringing the budget closer to the priorities that were agreed here in our march resolution. moreover, the proposal contains excellent pilot projects and preparatory actions. i want to thank the rapporteur for his consensual approach on that. however, i regret that there is too strong a reference to defence spending, and a clear endorsement of defence programmes. furthermore, the multiple references to migration do not speak to a coherent and humanist approach from the european union. despite this and other shortcomings, the parliament’s position to be adopted this week should be a good basis for the final negotiation with the council.
madam president, the european budget will be 166 billion in commitment appropriations. but let us not forget the real commitments to european society. the first of them: equality. the budget committee rejected the budget lines proposed by the #metoo campaign against sexual harassment in the european parliament. the second is transparency. the committee on budgets also threw out amendments calling for more transparency in meps' allowances, cutting "higher" pay scales instead of laying people off, or cutting certain unnecessary amenities. i wonder if the asses of the mps can't fly for two hours in economy class? the third priority is employment. it is becoming increasingly difficult for young people to find a stable future. the reason is that europe needs to invest directly in transforming and boosting the productive fabric and the care economy. there are other priorities, of course, but the question now is whether we will abandon the path of austerity or will they continue on that... (the president cut the speaker off)
madam president, 18 years ago we adopted the water framework directive and since then the member states have applied the european union rules quite successfully. in the case of drinking water, we need new quality parameters to update and improve current legislation; furthermore, technical progress allows us to have better controls which should be implemented for the benefit of the public health of consumers. the conditions for citizens' access to water supply can and should also be improved, and the circular economy must be supported by reducing losses in installations. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague mr dantin, because the work done on this report is complex and, moreover, very sensitive. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in fact a policy of the member states. the principle of cost integration of the water framework directive requires us to be particularly careful when setting new parameters or sampling frequencies. the citizens will be grateful to us for being able to combine improvements in water quality with the containment of supply charges in a sector which is already functioning at a very good level.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow is an important day in this parliament. for the first time, a citizens' initiative comes in the form of a legislative proposal from the commission. and he's asking us to legislate on a basic commodity like water. it calls for the quality of the food to be adapted to the current state of knowledge and for endocrine disruptors, among other substances harmful to health, to be eliminated. it asks us to work on climate change mitigation and to make more direct use of it and to eliminate unnecessary plastic. but above all, it asks us to guarantee universal access to health care. today, 11% of the european population do not have access to safe drinking water. the european citizenship is calling for it - more than two million citizens - the united nations has repeatedly called for it in various resolutions, and tomorrow the european parliament cannot be below these demands or turn its back on european citizenship. and that is why it must approve the amendments which will be tabled tomorrow. let us therefore live up to this basic ambition of european citizenship.
mr. president, plastic has become a fundamental material for our human life. we have probably overused it and have lacked proper awareness and management by producers, managers and consumers. the result is the dumping of plastic waste into the high seas with images that we've all seen. we share the commission's objective of reducing plastic waste at sea and the concern about its breakdown into microplastics. over the last few years, there have been significant advances in the chemical and materials industries, so we have new types of biodegradable and compostable plastics that allow for safer applications and packaging than before, especially in the food field. that allows us to have substitutes to call for prohibitions to be imposed only in the absence of alternatives. in most cases, reduction targets, design requirements, management or reporting obligations can also be set. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mrs ries, on her report, even though we in my group do not entirely agree with it. and i would like to conclude by saying that if we want to protect the seas, we need to address the problem at the international level. as with other environmental issues, the european union cannot solve the problem alone. we also need consumer environmental education and cooperation.
in writing. the properties of plastic have made significant improvements in food quality, transport, medicine and construction possible, but at the same time they are creating one of the main problems facing humanity alongside climate change. the lack of waste management policies for separate treatment and the lack of co-responsibility of packers has brought us to the current point where almost half a ton of plastic waste ends up in the oceans every second, and the amount is increasing at an alarming rate. under the pretext of making affordable products available to consumers, no one pays for the environmental costs that this waste generates and will continue to generate for centuries, in the form of microplastics. the problem is even greater when we talk about single-use plastics, designed to be used and thrown away, creating unsustainable consumption habits that must be curbed, especially when biodegradable alternatives are available. european industry has an opportunity to be a benchmark and a leader in the move away from single-use plastics. this directive is the first of many steps the eu must take to achieve a true circular economy.
mr president, saudi arabia is an authoritarian state, which i dare not call medieval, ruled by a corrupt and cruel caste, where terrorism is publicly executed, protected and subsidized, where everyone, particularly women and foreigners, survives at the mercy of the whim of the rulers. no need to insist. the atrocious death of journalist jashogui has finally triggered some alarms. germany has announced that it will suspend arms sales to the saudi government and is calling on the other countries of the union to do the same. spain is a major arms exporter and, with the very interested intervention of the king of spain, has a large customer in saudi arabia. i would ask the spanish government to join the german government in suspending its arms sales to that country and not to adopt the shameful commercial attitude of the president of the united states and of all those for whom business is more important than life and the defence of human rights. following the path of saudi arabia and maintaining friendship with this country means continuing on the path of indignity, of ignominy.
mr president, the spanish state is using every conceivable means to prevent the catalan people from exercising their democratic right to self-determination: police and judicial repression, state sewers and, as we now know, economic war. an interesting piece in ara newspaper revealed how after the referendum, which the spanish state tried to avoid by a lot, state administrations and public companies massively withdrew funds from the two big catalan banks as a measure of pressure to move their headquarters out of catalonia. this irresponsibility led to the fall of the shares of these banks and caused a danger of systemic risk that could have seriously affected the catalan, spanish and european economy. the european commission should investigate these political maneuvers on financial institutions, maneuvers that had the clear objective of deliberately destabilizing a country's economy as punishment for daring to vote and decide.
mr president, the multinational alcoa has unilaterally announced, without any negotiation, the closure of its factories in avilés and a coruña, and with that the destruction of 700 direct jobs and as many indirect jobs. the plants are productive and have benefits, as the trade union representatives emphasize. that is why we must demand that the multinational company withdraw its closure file and open a negotiating table to find ways of guaranteeing the maintenance of employment and its future viability. but the spanish government must also take action, guaranteeing a stable energy model that prevents abusive electricity prices, fixed through auctions. there are many measures that can be taken in the energy sector, but the most beneficial for industry and citizens would be for this strategic sector to be in the hands of the public authorities. it must be remembered that without industry there is no future and no quality jobs. alcoa's not closing!
mr president, in the last few days we have seen some very painful images, images of thousands of people, mainly hondurans, fleeing violence in one of the most dangerous regions in the world. there are women, children, elderly people, unaccompanied minors, thousands of people who have no other purpose than to come to the united states and ask for asylum - a universal right. a few months ago we were shocked by the us immigration policy, with detention and separation of families. now trump is threatening to cut off aid to countries of origin that don't act as border police and send the military to stop this caravan of immigrants. in the face of all this, the european union is doing nothing. the european union must send an observer mission and provide financial aid to alleviate the humanitarian crisis we are witnessing. we can't keep looking the other way.
mr president, the american multinational alcoa has recently announced the closure of its plants in avilés and a coruña and the dismissal of all its workers: 686 lives broken, 686 families in the most absolute uncertainty by a company that continues to record profits in its profit and loss account. that is why i am calling on this parliament to open a negotiating table with all the social partners and public authorities to prevent the company from being closed down. and i also ask the union not to be unaware of the intentions of the american company alcoa and to join the cry of asturias and galicia and all of spain to defend those two plants in our country. we will fight, we will prevent this closure and parliament will be united with the workers because alcoa will not close!
mr. chairman, madam commissioner of justice, when the scandal broke, mark zuckerberg was called to appear before the united states senate and it was the first time he wore a tie. his physical position was of subordination to the united states senate. when he appeared here in the european parliament, he was not even remotely subjected to the same harsh interrogation as he was subjected to in the united states senate. we are faced with the giants of the net, who consider themselves to be completely unconnected to any law and any jurisdiction, and yet the european union cannot abdicate its duty to protect and ensure the fundamental rights of europeans in the face of any giant. first, we must demand that the data protection regulation be complied with 'also by the giants of the internet' and, where appropriate, implement the directive linking the police, the judiciary and the prosecution to investigate crimes related to violations of fundamental rights on the internet. but we also need to invest in privacy education, in cybersecurity and in new technologies, because our investment in new technologies is nothing like the united states' investment, and until we have better investment in security and technologies, we have nothing to do with the giants of the net.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, thank you, mr iohannis, for being here to exchange views with the european parliament. romania joined the european union in 2007, and at that time a period of great hope and closer ties between the romanian people and the rest of the countries of the european union was beginning. however, recent events seem to show that the dignity of the romanian people is putting the government at risk. we are talking about the future of europe. i would like to look back and remember that presidential campaign of 2014. at that time, mr iohannis, your party focused on fighting corruption and improving the judicial system. anyone looking through a rearview mirror would be amazed at the decisions the government of their country is making lately. you have the prerogative to address your parliament on matters of national interest and to safeguard the constitution and fundamental rights. and in this respect, it must be firm and clear in its defence of democracy and freedoms and not become an accomplice to the drift of its government, which seems to be following in the footsteps of others, such as the polish or the hungarian. we are witnessing with surprise some democratic revolutions typical of other times. i shall mention three well-known cases. firstly, the referendum against same-sex marriage, called by the extreme right and the orthodox church, which supported the romanian government by participating in a campaign of hatred and homophobia which has shown the most backward side of a social democratic government, which should embarrass the s&d group here. fortunately, the citizens of romania showed their dignity in a resounding way with such a high abstention that it was prevented from even going ahead. secondly, in august thousands of his countrymen took to the streets against the current endemic corruption of the government. romanian citizenship is resisting attempts by the current rulers to control the judiciary to dilute the relative success of the fight against corruption. and thirdly, reforms of the law governing ngos. the council of europe conference of international ngos noted that there are clear shortcomings in respect of compliance with international standards and good practice. the gue/ngl group would also like to ask the s&d group about these three elements and its opinion, and we would like to encourage you, mr iohannis, to be firm; to be firm in defending democracy and freedoms and in the fight against corruption; to listen to the voice of your people before other voices and not to continue with this confrontation with the common sense that your government is carrying out. fortunately, the events of the past few months have shown that romanian citizens know how to make themselves heard. we're celebrating from here. we show our support for the rights and freedoms won with so much suffering.
mr president, this is not really a debate to discuss what is happening in your country: it is a debate to discuss the future of the european union. i want to speak to you about this, mr president, because you will be the next president of the commission and at the beginning of this mandate we set ourselves the objective of making industry account for 20% of our gross domestic product. unfortunately, we are seeing industries - especially steel and aluminium - closing down day by day throughout the european union. our industrial weight is declining and, despite some measures taken by the commission, they are not enough to stop unfair trade practices and dumping by countries like china. i would therefore ask you, mr president, to join the other heads of government in promoting a genuine european industrial policy. this is the future of europe: that it should have more weight, and avoid closures like those which are happening in our country at the moment in the aluminium sector.
madam president, we could spend the little time we have left lamenting the mistakes we have made, or we could turn our efforts to giving back the soul that is missing from the union project, with a europe with a strong social pillar that advances social rights, a minimum wage framework, decent pensions and decent wages; a europe that is a leader in the fight against climate change, as a matter on which to waste a single minute would be a grave irresponsibility; an egalitarian europe that does not give up on eradicating violence against women and that tries to unlock legislative initiatives such as women on boards or, for example, the equal treatment directive. mr timmermans, you in the european commission cannot afford to resign and we in the socialist family will stand shoulder to shoulder to build that europe.
madam president, unfortunately, mr vice-president, the european commission, which at the beginning of its mandate had set itself the objective of industry accounting for 20% of gdp, is silent as industries and businesses close and does not present the industrial plan so often called for by parliament and the commission. in the steel, aluminium and steel sectors, it is even more serious. the closures of businesses in spain have just been announced by alcoa in avilés and a coruña, and a few days ago by the vestas company. we must therefore not stand idly by and take action and take initiatives, and the measures which the commission has been promoting in the past are not enough to put a stop to unfair trade practices and dumping by countries such as china. i am calling on you directly, mr timmermans, to deal with this situation and help us to maintain employment in industries which are strategically important for our europe and for our country.
madam president, vice-president timmermans, now that we are approaching the end of the mandate, it is time to be able to put into practice in the form of rules, budget and public policy instruments one of the best ideas that this commission, which is the european pillar of social rights, has promoted. we have several tools on the table to be able to adopt the directive on transparent and predictable working conditions, to combat precariousness and regulate new forms of work; the labour conciliation package, which is a key piece to bring gender equality also to the labour market; or the european labour authority, which must be an instrument to combat the abuses experienced by many european workers. these are some of the ideas on the table, but there are also old ideas, like european unemployment insurance, which new governments, like the spanish one, are committed to pushing forward. now that our mandate is over, let us use these tools to gain legitimacy in the eyes of the european citizens in the fight for a social and just europe.
mr. president, in the casino economy there is a saying that "the bank always wins". unfortunately, this seems to be the motto of the european union today. how long is it gonna take us to stop the banks from stepping on our toes? we are witnessing a real fraud on democracy. in spain, the supreme court has suspended its own ruling, which ordered banks to pay the tax on mortgages, citing the serious economic and social consequences that this could generate. do banks take into account the social consequences when they take billions of euros out of public coffers? when do they organize their accounts so they don't report profits and pay taxes? when they evict families from their homes? we cannot allow this to continue, your honours. anyone who systematically defrauds the public should have their banking license revoked. credit must become a public service, with banking under social control. it is time to set rules so that this time, for once, the people win.
mr. president, one more scandal to add to the many that have come out. this is a big one: about 55 billion euros of fraud to the ministries of finance. it cannot be considered a purely national fraud issue because there are clearly cross-border elements; and it is especially scandalous because this one occurred in the midst of austerity in europe and others continued to occur even after the big financial scandals of 2007 and 2008: banks demanding refunds of taxes they had never paid. this is totally intolerable. so we have to see how we deal with that at european level, because one of the big problems is that the national finance ministries are not coordinating enough to respond to this phenomenon. the automatic exchange of information is therefore essential, the revision of the directives on administrative cooperation is essential and - as my colleague sven giegold has pointed out - article 22 of the regulation on the european supervisory authority must be used to launch a pan-european investigation into this financial crime.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, this brutal crime has caused the blindfold to fall from some people's eyes. but no, it was not a mistake or an isolated case: it was a cold-blooded planned crime of the many that saudi arabia commits on its borders. flogging, amputations, beheading, stoning, submission of women, children sentenced to death, not to mention the thousands of civilian deaths in yemen. saudi arabia is a criminal, feudal regime that thinks that with its money it can buy the will of the entire international community and, so far, experience certainly proves them right. madam mogherini, in the face of this ruthless murder, in the face of the genocide of the yemeni people, i would like to hear once and for all from this parliament, which has repeatedly urged you to impose an embargo on arms sales to saudi arabia. do not pretend to believe the contradictory versions or the multiple saudi lies. be brave, and promote the european arms embargo once and for all. leave the double rack. we could still think that this union defends and protects human rights with deeds and not words; otherwise, as our great quevedo said: 'the powerful gentleman is don dinero'.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the principles we profess, we must express our strongest condemnation of the death of journalist yamal jashogui and call, as the high representative has done, for a credible investigation to bring those responsible to justice. this crime, in its circumstances, can really compromise the credibility of the reform process and have unforeseeable consequences in the international order. saudi arabia is the world's largest oil producer, the united states' main partner, the union's partner in the gulf cooperation council, and an indispensable player in the already very inflammatory situation in the region: the wars in syria and yemen, the division in the gulf cooperation council and, at the same time, the worst situation in the middle east peace process for many years. we must support the high representative in giving a coordinated response to the crisis in the region, based on our principles, and intelligently prevent russia, which sells $3.2 billion in arms, from becoming not only the main supplier to syria and iran, but also the partner or the hegemonic actor in the region.
mr president, the truth is that it is very hard to speak in this house of such a heinous crime - according to the police, an authorized murder; perhaps a crime of state - but our mission is political. we could say that jashogui is one more victim of that medieval saudi monarchy that persecutes and executes dissidents. the one who hasn't released our sakharov prize yet. but what happens is that jashogui has become the victim who has made it clear that what needs to change is the game of thrones and clans between saudi arabia and the western countries; of course sanctions and stopping selling to saudi arabia are always significant political gestures, but, in that way, we have not managed to stop the massacre in yemen. we know that the truly effective response is to restore the legitimacy and strength of the international order in the face of abuses and aggressions, wherever they come from, and that should be the effort of all the powers and all the european countries: to make a common front - as the high representative has said - to show firmness against those responsible for crimes against humanity in saudi arabia, and in yemen and in syria and in libya. we must urge the un secretary-general to lead a swift, independent and effective international inquiry. the united states should also be involved in that effort. it is a good opportunity for their own foreign policy, so far removed at the moment from universal values. the whole policy of the european union must be directed towards rebuilding the strength of international law. we strongly support the efforts of the high representative.
mr. president, yamal jashogui was brutally murdered and dismembered in his country's consulate in istanbul. this murder in a consular office is an extrajudicial execution, it is state violence executed outside your territory. yamal was annoying and they decided to eliminate him. moreover, the murder is yet another attack on freedom of opinion and expression: daphne caruana, jan cusack, martina kusnirova, another one. the murder and persecution of journalists or opinion-formers is a crushing blow against civil liberties. we call for a rigorous and independent investigation to clarify the facts and punish the guilty. the international connotations of the case are huge, far beyond what erdoğan said this morning in the grand assembly. in this house, article 19 of the universal declaration of human rights and article 11 of our own charter bind and bind us. our freedom depends and much on a free and borderless press.
mr president, when an authoritarian regime appears to be involved in the brutal murder of a citizen in one of its consulates, as seems to have happened with the journalist mr khashoggi, democratic governments have two possible reactions: putting human dignity above all or clinging to the economic interests that tie them to this regime. this afternoon, the spanish congress has shamefully chosen the latter. the status quo parties, aligned with the interests of the crown, prefer to protect multi—million euro arms contracts instead of choosing dignity. this is nothing new. member states have systematically been violating the common position on arms exports to countries such as saudi arabia, which use the war machine to violate human rights and prolong conflicts. ms mogherini, the european union and its member states must opt for dignity. before arms and business there is life and justice. we must put a ban on arms sales to saudi arabia.
mr president, we condemn this terrible murder, we condemn the murders of human rights defenders, journalists, lawyers, people, men and women, writers. we condemn the double hypocrisy of the pictures of the king of spain, who is photographed with the saudi prince; we condemn the fact that there are governments and parliaments that are able to look the other way when they see these tragedies, when they see these massacres of the civilian population of yemen. while some are taking pictures, while mrs mogherini is calling for joint resolutions with which our group fully agrees, while mrs merkel is already breaking a spear in this battle by waving a token, what is spain doing? what is the united kingdom doing? we want to know because these are the states most involved. and that is why we are also calling for the european union to be able to present a resolution on the situation of human rights defenders at the next meeting of the united nations, at the session of the united nations human rights council, which also establishes a sanctions regime against precisely these abuses. killing is a crime, but blindfolding is a crime too.
mr. president, the murder of jashogui is not just any murder, it's a state murder. this is not a coincidence and it is not an isolated case. it is one of many cases that demonstrate the brutal dictatorship that saudi arabia is; a brutal dictatorship that is a preferred partner in the purchase of european arms. what are we gonna do? we got some nice statements. we have issued statements to stop arms sales to saudi arabia, which is bombing civilian society in yemen. but do they? we keep selling weapons to saudi arabia. we have seen how the spanish government continues to sell arms to saudi arabia. we need a common position so that arms are not sold from europe to saudi arabia, so that measures are taken that can really stop what we are seeing, which is this brutal dictatorship. we must also investigate the commissioners, like mr bourbon, who are doing business on behalf of everyone with this dictatorship. you have to take sides once and for all.
madam president, i very much welcome today's debate, which has been extremely interesting and is in some ways a response to all those in europe who question the sanctions against russia and who argue that sanctions should be lifted. in the czech republic, where i come from, i feel that some extremist political forces feel that we should be more accommodating to russia. today's debate clearly shows that the eu must be more forceful, it must be tougher, and that the situation in the azov sea, which has been described here today, is another form of aggression against ukraine. this time it is basically a form of trade blockade that significantly restricts the form of export of ukrainian goods from ukrainian ports. so i join those, madam high representative, who are asking you to take a hard line on russia. there can be no compromise on this issue that is detrimental to ukraine and to the eu's values and positions.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, i am here also for the next debate so i will continue. first of all, let me thank the subcommittee on security and defence (sede) and all its members, and in particular anna elżbieta fotyga, for the work done in this regard, the visits made and the previous exchange of views we had. that was not with me personally but with our services, on 11 october, and, it helped to prepare for this plenary and helped with the work we are constantly doing on this issue. keeping the focus on this is essential, for different reasons, and the speakers all mentioned them. first of all, for our principles and values; and then for ukraine’s sovereignty, and also for the economy – both that of ukraine and that of the european union, as the speakers have emphasised – and for our collective security. i think we have many good reasons for keeping a close eye on what is happening in the sea of azov and we will continue to react appropriately and in a united manner. for this, the support of parliament will continue to be key. let me assure you, too, that part of the next eu-ukraine association council that i will chair in a couple of months from now – together, i believe, with the ukrainian prime minister – will also focus on to how to address this issue in the best possible manner, and what kind of support the european union can give to ukraine in this context. among other issues on which we are supporting ukraine, this is also extremely important. i would like quickly to touch upon a couple of points that were raised, not probably all of them, but a couple of them. some of you referred to the need to uphold international principles, including the international courts and legislation. as i said at the beginning, we appreciate that ukraine is seeking justice in the international courts. you know that there is an ongoing case under the un convention on the law of the sea (unclos). so we trust the international courts, and in this case unclos, as we always do, upholding international jurisdictions. the second point concerns the sanctions. as i mentioned before, we included new persons on our sanctions list in relation to the construction of the bridge. some of you referred to the implementation of these sanctions. as you know very well, it is for the european council, in unanimity, to adopt the sanctions and measures, but then it is for member states to monitor their implementation and to take appropriate measures if needed. obviously, as the commission, we have our own say in pushing this monitoring of implementation by member states, but it is very much an issue that lies in their hands. we will continue to assess the situation and the developments in the sea of azov. we will continue to count on the support of this parliament and all the relevant committees to continue to build a united effort and policy and to work with our ukrainian friends to invest in their resilience as much as we can.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, we discuss the situation in venezuela relatively often and i can start by saying that we are now seeing a further deterioration in the situation and further polarisation of the political scene. tensions are continuing to rise, social and economic conditions are clearly worsening quite dramatically, and, against this background, over two million venezuelans have decided to leave the country. we often refer to crises caused by migration to europe. i would invite you to look at these numbers. there are, as i said, two million venezuelans fleeing to colombia, brazil, ecuador, peru and the caribbean. among those people, some are european citizens, so here we have an inverse situation: as you might know, nearly one million eu nationals have dual citizenship. there are also people of european descent who live in venezuela, although many of them have already left the country. even though an ocean geographically divides us, we europeans cannot stand on the sidelines of this crisis. it concerns us simply because of the number of eu nationals who are also venezuelans, not to mention the social, cultural and economic ties that exist between europe and venezuela. our response so far has been both humanitarian and political. on the humanitarian side, we are currently mobilising eur 35 million in assistance to venezuelans both within and outside the country. we are investing in health assistance, food and water sanitation. we are working to support the socio—economic inclusion of venezuelans and to help the local economies of host communities in neighbouring countries. half of this eur 35 million package is already being implemented in near-record time and the remainder will be made operational by early next year. we are also exploring the possibility of further increasing the commission’s financial support beyond this already very significant contribution. we have welcomed the appointment of eduardo stein as a unhcr-iom joint special representative for venezuelan refugees and migrants, and, with the foreign ministers of the 28 member states, we had the opportunity to discuss the venezuelan migration crisis last monday in luxembourg during the foreign affairs council, expressing our support to both mr grandi and mr vitorino for this work, which we want to be joint work. on that occasion we had both mr grandi and mr vitorino with us. we didn’t focus purely on issues relating to migration and europe, and i believe that to be right. we stand ready to support any further coordinated action, both at regional and international level, to address this humanitarian crisis more effectively. but the only possible solution is political. last week – again with the foreign affairs council, with the foreign ministers – we discussed what more the european union can do to prevent a further deterioration in the situation or help change the course of these negative developments. ministers from all 28 member states have confirmed that, first of all, any sustainable political solution to the venezuelan crisis has to be democratic and peaceful, and those are the two pillars that are guiding our action. external intervention or any use of force would simply be unacceptable to us and would make things much worse. our immediate request to the government of venezuela is that it takes unilateral confidence-building measures to ease tensions, first and foremost by restoring the full constitutional powers of the national assembly and respecting the immunity of its members, releasing all political prisoners and taking concrete steps to restore political pluralism and guarantee respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. we expect, in particular, a full, independent and impartial investigation into the circumstances of councillor albán’s death. it is the duty of the state to ensure the safety and physical integrity of all people in its custody. finally, we ask the government to allow free, credible and transparent elections with full respect for the constitution. on all these points, we have not changed our minds. you have heard them and have said as much yourselves several times. the requests from our side remain on the table and we don’t intend to change our minds on these starting points: the people of venezuela are simply asking for democracy, and this crisis will end only with a political process heading in that direction. this is very clear to us europeans. in response to the human rights violations in venezuela and the ongoing attack on democratic institutions, we decided a year ago to impose targeted restrictive measures on a number of individuals who are responsible for the current situation. this is the first time that we are imposing these kinds of measures in latin america and, as you can imagine, we didn’t take the decision lightly. we took it not only because of the deteriorating situation, but also as a message for the authorities in venezuela, with which we are keeping a channel of dialogue open, to commit themselves seriously to a negotiated political solution to the current crisis. today, the situation has not improved at all. on the contrary. so we are sticking to our decision, and the restrictive measures will stay for as long as human rights are violated and democratic principles are disregarded. we do not intend to soften our position while there is no substantive progress on the ground. at the foreign affairs council last week, we started a discussion with the ministers on what else we, as the european union and as member states, can do, in addition to these positions and the decision to continue the sanctions, to end the downward spiral and help start some kind of political process, as the absence of a political process might in itself lead to a further deterioration in the situation. so we will explore, first of all together with latin american countries, the possibility of establishing a contact group with relevant and interested countries, not only from the region, and international players. we don’t think that, at this point in time, mediation or a dialogue would have any chance of succeeding. i want to be very clear on that point. it’s not a question of buying time. no way. the conditions for either a dialogue or for mediation are not there, but an international initiative – a european initiative together with others – could, with plenty of question marks, help build the conditions that would eventually make it possible to relaunch a political process. for the moment, this is just a possibility that we are exploring. i don’t want to raise expectations. we are simply worried about the lack of a political process and, personally, i don’t want to be in a position, six months or a year from now, of looking back and asking whether we could have done more on the political side to prevent the situation from deteriorating even further. so again, without raising expectations or launching an initiative today, the idea is simply to explore whether it might be possible to put something in place that could help create the conditions for something to happen in the future. i believe that we should try any peaceful option to end the current stalemate and prevent a violent escalation because, if the situation does not improve – and we do not see the situation improving – an escalation of violence cannot be ruled out, and that would mean even greater suffering for the people of venezuela. this is an option that we have to avert and prevent. we don’t want to impose any outside outsourced solution. that is never the european approach. we believe in democracy, we believe in ownership, we believe in cooperation and we believe in respect. we believe that the future of venezuela – and also the present of venezuela – must be written by its people and no one else, without any external intervention. but we will do everything we can to help the venezuelan people take the future and the present of the country back into their hands. i am looking forward to listening to your views.
on behalf of the ppe group madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, democracy and human rights are in a critical situation in venezuela: 2 300 000 venezuelans, according to the official figures of the unhcr, have had to leave the country in fact, the real figures are three million. three million, madam president, is a huge number: it represents ten times the population of the city of strasbourg which is hosting us today. there are more than 250 political prisoners, according to the venezuelan criminal forum, and more than 12 000 venezuelan citizens have been in and out of this sinister carousel of revolving prison doors; some have come out, like lorent saleh, tortured; others have not come out, like councillor fernando albán, to whom you referred; and others, like national assembly member juan requesens, are still in prison. the sad departure of juan requesens, the high representative, is a living image of what democracy is today in venezuela: bloodied, beaten, mistreated, but still standing. i think that in today's debate we must give serious thought to the message that the european union has to convey to the troubled people of venezuela, and see if we are able to convey to them a message of hope. this parliament has awarded the sakharov prize to the democratic opposition. you have told us about the discussions in the council of ministers; we are pleased, madam high representative, that the council has not changed its position. we know that there are member states which want to soften it, but this is not the time to make it more contemporary, this is not the time to relax. it is time to tackle our principles with determination and courage and to support solutions, madam high representative, with our partners in the region - you referred very well to the lima group or the oas - to try to ensure that the people of venezuela, with all the guarantees, can once again take the floor.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, the question, as mrs mogherini rightly said, is: what else? that is the question. and this is the moment when we have to respond, because all of the above has already been done: we have condemned maduro and his regime hundreds of times; we have produced resolutions; we have provided humanitarian aid; we have applied sanctions. the question is, what else, your honours? and i would like to see a consensus in this house on 'what else'. and i think this is a reflection that forces us to be intelligent and pragmatic: intelligent because we have to find in the region, in the international actors of the region, allies to help venezuela, and do it as a friendly country of venezuela, which is the european union; and pragmatic, because we have to find peaceful and democratic solutions. that is a good point, but there are ways out, including for dictatorships, because dictatorships also need ways out. and i think the important thing today is to send this message, because the agreement of the house, in addition to the sentences, is that, first of all, only the venezuelan people decide. secondly, there is no room for outside intervention, much less for violence, and i think it is worth recalling this. and thirdly, that is precisely why the ministers - and mrs mogherini has said it well - have to explore whether the european union can play a better role in helping to bring about a peaceful, democratic and dialogue-based solution.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, another resolution on venezuela, and i'm already losing count. it seems they're looking for the guinness record for resolutions on a country, and they're on the right track. it seems there's no other problem in latin america. but you are not looking to solve venezuela's problems, but a change of government. two events in recent weeks make clear their double standards: honduras, thousands of migrants fleeing their country, hunger and violence in the most violent country in the world. i have not heard them speak of a humanitarian emergency, or of pressure on the borders, or of the responsibility of a government that has inherited a coup d'état, or of calling for sanctions against it. another, the murder and dismemberment of journalist jashogui while he was still alive. where are the sanctions, mrs mogherini? where is the denunciation of the agreement with saudi arabia or the gulf cooperation council? where are the pronouncements against the theocratic and murderous dictatorship? there aren't any because those are his little friends. the furious harassment of this parliament and the european union is only pursuing an agenda of government change; to criminalize and expel a president who, with over six million votes, won the last election. but the reality is stubborn: neither coups d'état, nor street terrorism, nor sanctions, nor economic war, nor attempted assassinations have managed to twist the venezuelan will expressed at the ballot box. that's what bothers them: that venezuela follows its sovereign path that only its citizens will decide.
madam president, thank you, mrs mogherini, for your clear-cutness. while some continue to fill their mouths with the word "dialogue" regarding venezuela, the life of opposition activist maría corina machado is in danger. after unsuccessfully trying to charge her with a crazy murder plot, the chavista regime now seems to be planning an attack against her that would be disguised as an accident, exactly as it has tried to disguise the death of councillor fernando albán as a suicide. dialogue, what dialogue are they talking about? in this brutal asymmetry of oppressors and oppressed, the only thing that comes up is blackmail. the european union has two inescapable obligations. the first is to make every effort to guarantee the physical safety of those who represent the democratic opposition in venezuela. and the second, to maintain its position until it achieves the conditions approved by this house, which mrs mogherini has very well recalled: the release of all political prisoners, the opening of a humanitarian channel, the full restitution of the constitution and all legitimate institutions, and the calling of transparent and inclusive elections, with no impunity for criminals, who will have to answer to international justice.
madam president, thank you, mrs mogherini, for your presence. the situation in venezuela seemed unlikely to get worse, but it has happened in unacceptable terms. the alleged murder of councillor fernando albán, of the primero justicia party, by the crude system of throwing him out of the window of the torture house, is something that borders on what could not be believed. the high representative - and she has been very good today - says that sanctions are not being abandoned, but that she is advocating dialogue. and that's where we're gonna disagree. this is the thesis of mr rodríguez zapatero, former president of the spanish government, who is now becoming more than a mediator, but a necessary collaborator of the dictatorship. unfortunately, the former president of the european parliament, mr borrell, and the current spanish foreign minister, are also on this line. it is impossible to put forward a situation of dialogue, and i see that the high representative is also quite sceptical. but i have heard something important: any kind of dilution of violent acts must be completely ruled out. the statements made by trump, almagro and even ledezma are unacceptable. the answers must be democratic, impeccably democratic. the opposite causes victimization and produces reasons they don't have.
madam president, madam high representative, the situation is critical: a humanitarian disaster and a very serious violation of human rights. our role is fundamental. the union, the united nations and the free world must strengthen their firm commitment to the venezuelan people and against the dictatorship and tyranny of maduro. we strongly condemn the brutal murder of fernando albán and call for an independent investigation within the framework of the united nations to identify the culprits and add new incriminating arguments to the case before the international criminal court. the helicoid is an illegal center of repression, torture and death. we have already seen in cucuta and boa vista the tragic consequences of the mass exodus of venezuelans seeking life and freedom. the impact on neighbouring countries is beyond their good faith and their reception possibilities. conviction is not enough. we need more tangible solidarity. the union is there and parliament must remain there, helping, pressing and denouncing. what is 35 million euros in the face of this tragedy?
(start of the intervention off the microphone) ...the murder of the oppositionist fernando albán, which has been covered up as a suicide, is a tragic example of this deterioration. i have been advocating for some time that the european union must be more active in dealing with this crisis which is seriously affecting venezuelan citizens and also neighbouring colombia, peru, brazil and ecuador. i did not like, mrs mogherini, the results you read from the foreign affairs council last week. i do not believe that the conditions are in any way in place for a relaunch of a dialogue or mediation mechanism. the venezuelan regime, which controls everything, has no will to compromise or give in to anything. the background is very clear: failure in the dominican republic, arrest and murder, in some cases, of opponents. in short, the dialogue formulas, as you know very well, give the regime oxygen, allow it to gain time. what do we have to do? besides helping the population, increasing the pressure on the regime. to make him see that his behaviour does not go unpunished and to force him to change course, in coordination with the countries of the lima group. the situation is very serious, the suffering of the venezuelan people is enormous. we have to help them and contribute to the maduro regime's attitude.
madam president, i want to lend my voice to the victims of maduro's repression, as they cannot speak because, if they did, they would be arrested, tortured and killed. i speak on behalf of the parents who have seen their children die for asking for freedom in venezuela; on behalf of the millions of venezuelans who cross the border, victims of an unprecedented humanitarian crisis; on behalf of the millions of exiles because of the economic, political and social crisis; of the young people without a country who cannot return to their country; of all the families torn apart, separated and trying to survive in exile; on behalf of all those who die because they have neither food nor medicine. you can't keep denying reality. dialogue is helping maduro. and i wonder why spain has not joined the complaint to the international criminal court that venezuela should be investigated for crimes against humanity as france and germany have done, for example. maduro's time has come and we must help venezuelans regain hope, freedom and dignity.
mr. president, maduro and his government, with the repression they exercise documented by thousands of complaints, with the blocking of the aid they need, with the forced exodus they force the citizenship of a country badly administered and governed, with their opposition to transparency in front of the international community, force to go from words to deeds. because we are facing more than symptoms of the commission of a crime against humanity against the venezuelan people. that is why i would like to ask the union and all its member states to join the call for a preliminary investigation by the international criminal court into the activities of the regime of nicolás maduro. it's not enough. i also support new targeted sanctions against their hierarchy and any initiative which promotes a dialogue-based solution, which is necessary. but it requires one condition: the release of all political prisoners, the cessation of harassment and repression and the restoration of the usurped legitimate institutions. nothing is further from the noble liberation that simón bolívar promoted than the cruel dictatorship of nicolás maduro.
in writing. i want to start by offering my condolences to the family and friends of fernando albán, the councillor who was tortured and killed at sebin headquarters, even though they want to sell it as a suicide. fernando albán had been arrested after being accused of an alleged attack against president maduro. an accusation that seems to extend to anyone who stands a stone in his dictatorial path. the most recent to receive this accusation is mr julio borges, president of the national assembly and sakharov prize laureate. in any case, it is not for me to judge the facts, which is why i support the need for an independent and transparent investigation with international experts to clarify the facts and convict the guilty. political repression in venezuela has reached outrageous levels. the venezuelan criminal forum informs us that there are currently 234 political prisoners. a fact that the eu cannot ignore. the political solution therefore requires: (a) the immediate release of all political prisoners and an end to repression; (b) the establishment of a new independent national electoral council; and (c) the holding of free and fair elections in accordance with international standards and with the presence of international observers.
mr president, mr timmermans, in order to restore mutual trust in europe and in the future of the european union, it is essential to strengthen the rule of law, yes, but also to fight corruption and to wipe off the map those referendums which are contrary to european values and convergence on european rights, such as those which seek to say no to refugee quotas or to ban same-sex marriages in the constitution. this parliament called for a structured mechanism years ago in the face of the present fragmented and erratic landscape where nationalism and illiberal democracy flourish, exploiting the fear of unrest but also the deterioration of the rule of law. and it is essential that there should be a permanent mechanism for implementing article 2 of the treaty on european union and article 7, so that it is not possible for a minority of countries to block until it is impossible to enforce respect for the rule of law. we have the last chance to establish this permanent and structured mechanism of respect for the rule of law, do not waste it! vice-president timmermans, commission, do it! i have to say that i am very pleased with the report.
mr president, i agree with most of you that we need an ambitious and, above all, more coherent systematic mechanism to protect democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights in europe. but let me reflect: the rule of law can be distorted in many ways, including through the abuse of the rule of law itself. this mechanism should therefore also monitor cases of abuse or, if you prefer, arbitrary use of the rule of law, which can also lead to situations where fundamental rights are violated. for example, it is only from this perspective that we can analyse the dramatic reality that the former president of the parliament of catalonia has been in preventive detention for months in spain today for not having prohibited certain debates and votes in the catalan chamber. only in this way can one analyze the dramatic reality of having political prisoners absurdly accused of rebellion, when all they have done is promote democracy and debate, never violence or subversion. mr timmermans, the abuse of the rule of law also endangers democracy and fundamental rights and, much as you deny it, this is what is happening in the spanish state.
mr president, commissioner, i would very much like to know why you do not answer our parliamentary questions when we talk about the violation of fundamental rights in the spanish state and, in particular, i would very much like to focus on those questions concerning the franco foundation. do you know that the franco foundation is the apologist of fascism in the spanish state? we have a unique opportunity in this parliament today, and the women rapporteurs in this parliament, and i look at some of them here, we have achieved a joint resolution to fight neo-fascism in europe, which will have the support of five parliamentary groups. on the basis of this resolution, which will be voted on thursday, we will also have new mechanisms for greater coordination in the defence of fundamental rights. but i would like you to answer our questions, commissioner. these are questions for the defence of the rule of law too and to be present at this vote will also be an open door to this fight against intransigence and against fascism which is still present in many member states.
mr president, i support these proposals, of course. a whole security universe summed up in one minute. this shows the poor quality of our parliamentary system: three reports, two commissioners. so, in an effort to summarize, i'll say four words. congratulations to carlos and jeroen, and i'll stick with these four inputs: interviews, fingerprints, facial images and dna profiles. they are crucial to improving the safety of europeans, they are necessary to make good use of the review of the system and will facilitate, commissioner king, your shared commitment to interoperability in the context of the year 2020.
mr president, commissioners, since it was launched in 1995, schengen has meant for europeans the free movement of persons and is therefore one of the most precious assets of the acquis and of the european construction and must be protected. and we are taking a step in that direction with these three regulations in a joint debate: external borders, police and judicial cooperation, and also return. three regulations that are aimed at strengthening security in the management of external borders, also to better control migratory flows, which is linked to the entry and exit system, the visa information system, and even eurodac biometric registers, with all the new technologies. but we have also stressed some very relevant elements. the first is that we are making available to the interoperability of databases elements which affect the fundamental rights of individuals, and the safeguarding objective is essential for this parliament and cannot be ignored or forgotten. secondly, schengen is in question because security threats have led to temporary suspensions in a number of member states and it is essential that the overriding objective be the full restoration of the free movement of persons and therefore the preservation of the schengen asset. thirdly, this interoperability of data can also serve to better protect people, particularly the most vulnerable, for example children, minors who cross the union's borders and cannot disappear afterwards, as the terrible europol report 'no less than ten thousand missing children' has shown. and finally, we cannot link the schengen system entirely to the return of irregular migrants, because, if it is true that we must strengthen security, it is also true that we cannot renounce what we call the holistic, comprehensive, general view of the migration phenomenon, of the migration fact, in order to give it the appropriate treatment that this european parliament has so often called for in its resolutions.
ladies and gentlemen, i beg you to adjust to the times, please. mr. sośnierz, you already took the floor earlier by raising a blue card, i see now that in the turn of catch of eye you will intervene again. i would like to ask you to give up your blue card and to speak when the time comes, in the course of the shift which is about to begin.
mr president, i take advantage of this debate on the functioning of the schengen information system to insist that an efficient european security service requires an end to the filters which have their origin in the nationalism of the states which holds back so many european projects. the ertzaintza is the integral police responsible for the public security of euskadi. he has a wealth of knowledge about organized crime and terrorism. it is located in a geographical area which is strategically important for the movement of people and goods between the north and south of western europe. therefore, direct operational involvement in sis, without intermediaries or ineffective and inefficient dependencies, is key to bringing the resources and knowledge of this police into the security policies of the union. in view of the legislation of the member state and the community itself, and from the operational logic, the ertzaintza must have its own representation in all the international forums and commissions where security strategies are decided and coordinated; where direct contact points between european police forces are established and the continuity of many investigations is encouraged. that is why i would like to know your opinion on this matter.
mr. president, trump's wall is here, it's with us in europe, on the southern border of the schengen area. it's a big fence with blades in ceuta and melilla. it's a fence that kills. this sunday, two people died trying to cross it. others, yes, they do, but what is often the answer: the hot returns. that is, to violate international law and the judgments of the european court of human rights, whether they are minors, asylum seekers or injured people who need medical care. spain and the european union cannot continue to trample on human rights or to externalize our borders to unsafe third countries. because the issue of migration is key to the future of europe. so let us be responsible, end the hot returns, respect human rights and open safe and legal pathways to the schengen area. that no one else has to die from having to migrate to europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank honourable members for this debate. speaking for myself, i think we can rightly be proud of what we have achieved with schengen and with the schengen information system (sis). today’s debate and the vote tomorrow will further reinforce that information system, making europe’s most widely used security database even more effective and, at the same time, reinforcing data protection safeguards. that is what modernising the sis means. after the legislation enters into force and the necessary technical changes have been implemented, member states’ authorities, together with europol, eu—lisa and the european border and coast guard agency, will be able to make better use of the system in the fight against terrorism and serious and organised crime. we will work with all member states and all member states’ authorities and encourage them to use that system and to use it for the purposes it is intended for, in the full respect of our fundamental rights, the fundamental rights that underpin all our work in this area, the values that we are protecting. a strengthened sis will provide the police, the border guards, those on the front line whose job it is to keep us safe, with the information they need to do their jobs. thanks again to the rapporteurs and to all who have been involved on these proposals. i encourage you to support this key file when you vote tomorrow.
the joint debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow. written declarations (rule 162) of the rules of procedure
the next item is the debate on the second report by mr marco valli, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2016, section ii european council and council (com (2017) 0365 - c8-0249/2017 - 2017/2138 (dec)) (a8-0300/2018).
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and assure him that with regard to his words about feeling disappointed, i was told that they are all watching our debate on tv so there are more people watching than are here in the room. let’s come to the subject of the debate. this issue has been controversial between parliament and the council for a long time. let me first say something about the specific exercise of discharge for the 2016 budget and then comment on the state of play in general. in relation to the implementation of the 2016 budget, you know of course that the court of auditors, in its annual report, and i quote: ‘did not identify any issue concerning the council’. this will, most probably, not affect your vote this week, which is expected to be the same as in previous years, but it is worth underlining. i would now like to share with you my assessment of where we are on this issue in more general terms. since 2011, the council has proposed a memorandum of understanding to parliament in order to better organise the cooperation between our two institutions during the discharge procedure. for several years this initiative was not followed up by any concrete discussion between our two institutions. finally, over the last 11 months, some new efforts have been made on both sides. the idea is to reach an understanding which allows a pragmatic cooperation, while preserving the position of principle of both institutions. the council has contributed to these efforts by revising its 2011 position and sent a new proposal to parliament in may 2018. following further contacts and exchanges, the competent preparatory bodies of the council are currently examining the situation. i can assure you that the austrian presidency of the council is ready to do its utmost to find a solution if there is sufficient political will on both sides to bridge the gap.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would simply like to thank the rapporteur, mr valli, for the work he has done in preparing this report, which reproduces an old and longstanding polemic we have been having with the union's council of ministers. the rapporteur has reminded us very well of the powers that the treaties confer on the european parliament in terms of discharge, and since 2009 this parliament has been systematically refusing to approve the annual accounts, which is also what will happen for 2016. it is not a question of equivalence or reciprocity, madam president-in-office of the council, it is a question of respect for the powers conferred by the treaties, and in this sense the european parliament cannot accept equivalence or reciprocity in the sphere of their respective powers. we welcome the willingness to find an understanding which respects the powers of both institutions. in the meantime, the rapporteur's report points out some areas where improvements are needed. the council has not presented separate accounts for the european council and the council of the union. staff costs have to be separated by category, by sex, by function, by grade and by professional competence. and it is also clear that we must welcome the efforts made to consolidate the european union's transparency record, which also affects the union's council of ministers. so, mr president, it is clear that this situation should be overcome, but it should be overcome - as the council representative has said - on the basis of a mobilization of political will which can in some way represent respect for the rules, respect for the institutions, respect for the treaties and the rules derived from them, such as the financial regulation of the union.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, commissioner, thank you very much for your remarks. i have taken good note of them. the council is not taking it personally, but i guess it is time to change the situation. there is a saying in german that ‘wo ein will ist, ist auch ein weg’, or in english ‘where there’s a will, there’s a way’, but my favourite translation is the french one, ‘quand on veut, on peut’. we should bear in mind that the eu institutions can gain and keep the trust of the citizens of the union only by working together. let’s change the situation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on the second report by mr bart staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european asylum support office for the financial year 2016 (com (2017) 0365 - c8-0288/2017 - 2017/2177 (dec)) (a8-0299/2018).
mr president, thank you, mr avramopoulos, for the information, and i would also like to thank mr staes and acknowledge his goodwill in working with the agency, having also been a rapporteur for the agencies and having worked with some of them intensively, as sometimes they did not deserve approval for their management. we are in a difficult situation at the moment with regard to easo, because we have to admit that the director was only replaced on 1 june and the plan is just one month old. the investigation, the investigations - because they are not just one - of olaf are still under secret; we have not managed to get information, but they continue and, above all, in the report on 2017 of the court of auditors we are told that, after 2016, there were also serious problems in easo. i, as the coordinator of the socialist group, will ask my group to abstain because we do not want to vote against, because we see, with mr staes, that there are efforts and we recognize that the commission has made efforts to improve the situation of easo. but the perception of the public is that, in the area of asylum, the european union has not done all that is necessary, and even less so in these critical years of which there are still quite a few very, very complicated circumstances. therefore, we do not want to vote against, because we believe that there has been progress and, above all, interest; but instead, we believe that, as of today, in october 2018, one month after the presentation of the action plan, we cannot approve the management either. i don't think the public would understand.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would first like to express my thanks for this debate. as i said at the beginning, it was very important to clarify where we stand. i know this is not easy. our agents today are doing important work on the ground in order to support member states and this work will continue because migration and security demand a coordinated european response. i don’t need, in particular, to repeat that the easo plays a key role, and i am sure you agree that we should not undermine the important work done by our agencies. i have already highlighted the measures taken by these decentralised agencies and i will not repeat them. i hope that the olaf report will also be available very soon. this, as you will understand, will allow us to have clarity and take further measures if necessary. while taking all measures that are needed, we must be able to leave this story behind, focus on the real work and look to the future. our agencies in the whole area of home affairs were established in a completely different context. together with you, our common goal is to ensure that the agencies can effectively play the role they should, in order to face the challenges of today and of the future. you almost reached an agreement with the council on our proposal to transform the easo from a support office into a fully-fledged agency. the limited amendments we proposed in september will ensure that the mandate of the agency responds to this need.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
madam president, i would like to bring some quiet and peaceful words after the previous disgraceful dispute. i will concentrate on northern ireland, because thatʼs an important point, and summarise the situation. the goal of including a protocol or not in ireland in the withdrawal agreement is to protect the good friday agreement by avoiding a hard border and by ensuring that there will be no diminution of rights for the citizens in the north. this protocol will be used as a backstop to protect the good friday agreement in case the future relationship does not solve the issue. we propose the participation of northern ireland in the single market and the customs union for goods through regulatory alignment. but this solution cannot be extended to the whole of the uk, as westminster would like, precisely because the uk’s government majority in westminster – of which the democratic unionist party is a key element – does not accept any differential solution for northern ireland, since this would create a border in the irish sea. the commission remains open to discussing other proposals to secure a backstop solution for northern ireland in the withdrawal agreement, but at the moment the uk has not presented any alternatives. unfortunately, we didnʼt achieve any agreement at the political level. in any case, we support the position of the commission on the need to include the backstop in the withdrawal agreement; on the proposal itself; on the fact that we are open to discussing other proposals if the uk comes up with something reasonable. the last council meeting was not able to take steps forward on this extremely sensitive issue, which needs a prompt and clear solution.
madam president, mr tusk, with all due respect - with all due respect because you are the president of the council, an institution to which we owe all due respect - you have seen the position of this parliament, a majority, a very majority, and it is a very strong criticism of the council's paralysis. you are a democrat, we represent the citizens of the european union. i guess that's what you believe. it is therefore your duty to listen to what this parliament is telling you. but do not listen to it as if it were a fine rain that you have to endure every time there is a council and you come to tell the conclusions, but take it seriously, mr tusk. because, you know what? that the council's paralysis, the council's lack of solutions, is fuelling what you have also heard here. it is not enough to say that the european parliament has a right to be consulted on the matter. and that has to do with the fact that there are no european solutions to the problems of the citizens. so you are not unaware - the council is not unaware - of the great vacuum that is being created in this european union. you have heard the groups, from right to left, say with all due respect that you must listen to this parliament, that you must act, because you are contributing to the total failure of european policy. and the citizens must know that it is the governments - not the commission, not parliament, who have done their duty - that it is the governments, most of them conservative governments, who are holding back the european union's solutions. you even congratulated the austrian presidency on its strong commitment to migration policies. this is a joke, isn't it, mr tusk? it's a very serious joke. because austria is considering leaving the un global compact on migration. that is the attitude of austria. you're consenting to the citizens turning away from everything we stand for here. and that is the responsibility of you, mr tusk, of the council, of the governments, of the conservative majority which is currently leading the european union. and we must raise our voices against this paralysis which is feeding the worst ghosts in the european union.
madam president, mr tusk, you made a brief mention at the end of your speech on the saudi arabian issue. the european council cannot remain silent in the coming days. we need them to make decisions: this brutal murder has to be a before and after in our relations. the first thing to do, apart from condemning the murder, is to condemn what constitutes a violation of the 1963 convention on consular relations and the non-respect of the convention against torture, to which saudi arabia is also a signatory. apart from all this, a decision must be taken urgently: an eu-wide embargo on arms sales to saudi arabia, because that is what our common position states, which, in our second criterion, states that arms sales licences cannot be granted when the destination is a country that violates human rights and international humanitarian law, as is happening in yemen. that's our law. it is the european common position, which has been compulsory since 2008. so i ask the council to act on this matter at once.
madam president, the threats to europe do not come in canoes, they come in yachts. the threats to europe are those billionaires and those multinationals who evade, defraud and loot public accounts, as the recent case of the cum-ex archives shows us once again: multinationals who relocate companies and take the work, organizing their accounts to minimize their contributions to tax. these are the real dangers for the european working classes. but it seems that this is not what the council wants to talk about. in recent months we have seen how vestas in león, la naval in sestao, alcoa in a coruña or avilés were threatened with relocation and closure, leaving thousands of people on the streets, exacerbating the deindustrialization of the country. these are profitable companies that have received huge public subsidies, some of which were even privatized not so long ago. ladies and gentlemen, there is an urgent need for a plan for reindustrialisation, a change in the production model which will recover strategic sectors for the public and put them under social control, thus ensuring the jobs and future of the european working classes.
madam president, i have only been in this parliament for four years. when i arrived, europe was the solution for almost everyone. now, only four years later, for many it is the problem. in just four years we have seen a migration crisis that has drowned fifteen thousand people at sea; in just four years we have seen terrorism returning to the european union; national populism trying to break up my country; the commission for the first time initiating an article 7 procedure against poland; parliament for the first time initiating an article 7 procedure against hungary; the commission for the first time returning budgets to italy; the next commission having at least three anti-european commissioners and the next parliament having at least one third of anti-european members of parliament. europe is going through a storm and we cannot ignore it any longer. it is the time of courage and it is the time of idealism. the worst thing that is happening is brexit, because it means, as we saw this morning, that we have forgotten everything that we should have learned during the second world war. i always think that politicians can do more. and with brexit, i am convinced that we could have done more. we were told not to go to the polls, and we did not go, and the europeans lost. this weekend, on saturday, young britons have again given us a lesson by going out into the streets and saying something very clear: soft brexit or hard brexit are not the only alternatives; a new referendum is also acceptable, no brexit is also acceptable. i am not going to be silent this time and i ask this parliament to respectfully ask the united kingdom government - just as it can speak to the polish, hungarian or italian governments - to hold a new referendum. a definitive referendum as the young people in the street are calling for. i am not going to remain silent and i ask the council that if the united kingdom asks it to extend the transitional period, we should do so on the condition that a new referendum be held. we extended the deadline, but with a new referendum, a definitive referendum. we, the european parliament, are the strength of the europeanists in the united kingdom. let's not fail them again.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to steal a few seconds of your time, but this is a matter of the utmost importance. the multinational alcoa wants to close its two plants in spain, in avilés and a coruña, leaving hundreds of workers on the street. this company has received over €1 billion in public aid and has acknowledged that the closure is due to the fact that it has not invested a single euro in modernising these plants. yesterday, at the beginning of the negotiations, alcoa said that it refuses to sell the factories, that it wants to close them. why would you do that? because, incidentally, where he has invested the money is in a factory in saudi arabia and what he does not want is to have any kind of competition; because, while he was receiving these aids with the money of the spanish state, he was investing it in saudi arabia. so i'm going to ask you two things. firstly, i do not care which political group you belong to, i do not care which country you belong to, i ask for your full support to protect european industry, our workers and our communities. and secondly, we must promote a common policy to defend our industry, to prevent companies that receive billions in public money from leaving, relocating and simply closing their factories and their doors, leaving hundreds of workers on the street and leaving entire communities in the lurch.
in writing. the european council has heard the parliamentary groups, from right to left, tell it with all due respect that their leaders must listen to this parliament, that they must abandon paralysis and the lack of solutions, because they are contributing to the total failure of european policy. and the citizens must know that it is the governments - not the commission, not parliament, who have done their duty - that it is the governments, most of them conservative governments, who are holding back the european union's solutions. mr tusk took the opportunity to congratulate the austrian presidency on its strong commitment to migration policies. it's a very serious joke. because austria is considering leaving the un global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration. that is the attitude of austria. the leaders of the european union are allowing the citizens to distance themselves from everything we stand for here. and that is the responsibility of mr tusk, of the council, of the governments, of the conservative majority which is currently leading the european union. and we must raise our voices against this paralysis which is feeding the worst ghosts in the european union.
in writing. the european council has heard the parliamentary groups, from right to left, tell it with all due respect that their leaders must listen to this parliament, that they must abandon paralysis and the lack of solutions, because they are contributing to the total failure of european policy. and the citizens must know that it is the governments - not the commission, not parliament, who have done their duty - that it is the governments, most of them conservative governments, who are holding back the european union's solutions. mr tusk took the opportunity to congratulate the austrian presidency on its strong commitment to migration policies. it's a very serious joke. because austria is considering leaving the un global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration. that is the attitude of austria. the leaders of the european union are allowing the citizens to distance themselves from everything we stand for here. and that is the responsibility of mr tusk, of the council, of the governments, of the conservative majority which is currently leading the european union. and we must raise our voices against this paralysis which is feeding the worst ghosts in the european union.
in writing. the european council has heard the parliamentary groups, from right to left, tell it with all due respect that their leaders must listen to this parliament, that they must abandon paralysis and the lack of solutions, because they are contributing to the total failure of european policy. and the citizens must know that it is the governments - not the commission, not parliament, who have done their duty - that it is the governments, most of them conservative governments, who are holding back the european union's solutions. mr tusk took the opportunity to congratulate the austrian presidency on its strong commitment to migration policies. it's a very serious joke. because austria is considering leaving the un global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration. that is the attitude of austria. the leaders of the european union are allowing the citizens to distance themselves from everything we stand for here. and that is the responsibility of mr tusk, of the council, of the governments, of the conservative majority which is currently leading the european union. and we must raise our voices against this paralysis which is feeding the worst ghosts in the european union.
in writing. the european council has heard the parliamentary groups, from right to left, tell it with all due respect that their leaders must listen to this parliament, that they must abandon paralysis and the lack of solutions, because they are contributing to the total failure of european policy. and the citizens must know that it is the governments - not the commission, not parliament, who have done their duty - that it is the governments, most of them conservative governments, who are holding back the european union's solutions. mr tusk took the opportunity to congratulate the austrian presidency on its strong commitment to migration policies. it's a very serious joke. because austria is considering leaving the un global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration. that is the attitude of austria. the leaders of the european union are allowing the citizens to distance themselves from everything we stand for here. and that is the responsibility of mr tusk, of the council, of the governments, of the conservative majority which is currently leading the european union. and we must raise our voices against this paralysis which is feeding the worst ghosts in the european union.
in writing. the european council has heard the parliamentary groups, from right to left, tell it with all due respect that their leaders must listen to this parliament, that they must abandon paralysis and the lack of solutions, because they are contributing to the total failure of european policy. and the citizens must know that it is the governments - not the commission, not parliament, who have done their duty - that it is the governments, most of them conservative governments, who are holding back the european union's solutions. mr tusk took the opportunity to congratulate the austrian presidency on its strong commitment to migration policies. it's a very serious joke. because austria is considering leaving the un global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration. that is the attitude of austria. the leaders of the european union are allowing the citizens to distance themselves from everything we stand for here. and that is the responsibility of mr tusk, of the council, of the governments, of the conservative majority which is currently leading the european union. and we must raise our voices against this paralysis which is feeding the worst ghosts in the european union.
in writing. the european council has heard the parliamentary groups, from right to left, tell it with all due respect that their leaders must listen to this parliament, that they must abandon paralysis and the lack of solutions, because they are contributing to the total failure of european policy. and the citizens must know that it is the governments - not the commission, not parliament, who have done their duty - that it is the governments, most of them conservative governments, who are holding back the european union's solutions. mr tusk took the opportunity to congratulate the austrian presidency on its strong commitment to migration policies. it's a very serious joke. because austria is considering leaving the un global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration. that is the attitude of austria. the leaders of the european union are allowing the citizens to distance themselves from everything we stand for here. and that is the responsibility of mr tusk, of the council, of the governments, of the conservative majority which is currently leading the european union. and we must raise our voices against this paralysis which is feeding the worst ghosts in the european union.
in writing. the european council has heard the parliamentary groups, from right to left, tell it with all due respect that their leaders must listen to this parliament, that they must abandon paralysis and the lack of solutions, because they are contributing to the total failure of european policy. and the citizens must know that it is the governments - not the commission, not parliament, who have done their duty - that it is the governments, most of them conservative governments, who are holding back the european union's solutions. mr tusk took the opportunity to congratulate the austrian presidency on its strong commitment to migration policies. it's a very serious joke. because austria is considering leaving the un global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration. that is the attitude of austria. the leaders of the european union are allowing the citizens to distance themselves from everything we stand for here. and that is the responsibility of mr tusk, of the council, of the governments, of the conservative majority which is currently leading the european union. and we must raise our voices against this paralysis which is feeding the worst ghosts in the european union.
mr president, last sunday there was a new jump in the melilla fence, with 200 people. two people died, one of them on the spanish side of the fence. spain has returned 55 people to morocco in an express manner. in august, 116 people were returned by the government to morocco in a hot, express way. the european court of human rights ruled that the hot returns practiced by spain on the border with morocco are illegal, violating european directives and the european convention on human rights. we have voted today on three reports on the schengen information system, which increase the number of agents, arms and deportations to non-european countries. that is, more externalization of borders, something criticized by social organizations and legal experts. the far-right project is unfortunately crystallizing with the complicity of the popular, liberal and social democrats, who continue to vote in this house in favour of strengthening europe and against human rights.
mr president, this european parliament has done its part by approving and promoting the european budget for the coming year 2019 and so that there can be a multiannual financial framework. is it not time that the council should be able to stop acting as the failed and paralysing link in the european decisionmaking process? is it not time for the council to heed the european parliament and increase the budget to 1.3% with own resources, such as the financial transaction rate, as this european parliament is asking it to do? is it not time for the council to unblock the dublin regulation, to show the solidarity needed to give the migration issue its due, and above all to send a positive message to the british europeanists who have come out in favour of a second referendum? i wish they had gone to vote when they had the chance to have avoided brexit (23 june 2016)! but the europeists will have a chance to support europe against the euro-phobia and anti-europe in the may 2019 elections.
mr president, the problem of plastic waste in the seas and oceans is a problem that we can all see in our daily lives. in fact, the amount of plastic we dump into the sea is equivalent to a whole garbage truck every minute, about as long as this intervention will last. the european commission has finally taken note of the pollution caused by these plastics, but time is running out. and, to be honest, this proposal could have been a lot stricter. drastically reducing unnecessary food packaging or plastic cups, setting collection targets for bottles or including cigarette filters in the directive - as proposed by parliament - are very positive measures. however, we must go further. although industry will have to start paying the costs of collecting plastics, the commission has again refused to touch the profits of the big multinationals. inevitably, the list of prohibited products will have to be increased in the coming years. all of this, of course, if we don't want to end up eating plastic fish.
mr president, i wanted to express my satisfaction at the adoption of this report by parliament on the plastics directive. a legislative proposal that is embedded in the circular economy action plan and the plastics strategy. it contains a number of measures which i believe have improved this parliament. so the work we've done has been satisfactory in eliminating those single-use plastics. i would particularly like to highlight some of the most significant aspects, in my view. prohibition measures are taken when we have other alternatives that are much more sustainable. therefore, those that are not sustainable will be banned. secondly, the labelling must indicate the negative environmental impact and the presence of this plastic in the product. thirdly, the obligation for member states to collect 90% of plastic beverage bottles and, fourthly, a very important thing: if we do not all become aware of the importance of reducing plastic, we will not achieve this. it's something we should eliminate from our usual use.
mr president, i would like to remind you that the treaty of lisbon was a clever solution to the failure of the constitution, but i would also like to remind my colleagues that the treaty was ratified by the european people because many countries had already approved it - the european constitution itself. in this connection, i would like to remind you that the treaty of lisbon is itself a solution to what has been a perfect storm for the european union. europe has been through a perfect storm in recent years, and the lisbon treaty has served to navigate those turbulent waters of economic crisis, migration crisis, terrorism, and so on. in fact, it has served and serves. moreover, it has a history, because we still have to go deeper into it. and, furthermore, it has to be changed in some things that experience is showing us demand change. for those of us who believe in europe, for those of us who want europe, for those of us who feel european, it is a perfect instrument which we want to preserve.
i would like to thank mr oettinger, on behalf of the commission, and mr lehne for their speeches and also mr lazarou for the presence of the court of auditors. i would also like to thank you for giving us the opportunity at this time to hold this debate in the presence of a large number of visitors, citizens of the european union who have access to this debate. the court of auditors' annual picture of the european union's dynamic and multiannual budget is now much closer to the reality of a budget which, despite ever greater and more complex ambitions, still amounts to only 1% of the european union's gdp and in relation to which we are concerned that flexibility and financial engineering are becoming escape routes. we are saying this less than nine months before the european elections, which are critical, and in the midst of the debate on the multiannual financial framework. we welcome the two most important recommendations in the debate on the financial future. firstly, the european union must not make promises it cannot keep, which in political terms would be to say that the european union must give itself sufficient means to fulfil the promises it makes to its citizens. we also recognize the challenge of the growing gap between increasing commitments and low payments, which is precisely what is leading to a new high in outstanding budgetary commitments. we must therefore make this rebalancing a priority in the next financial framework. we welcome - albeit prudently, as always in budgetary control - the second year in a row that the opinion has been reserved, but not unfavourable. the level of irregularities has continued to decline, and we welcome this, but we are also aware - the commission and the council, we remember - that using the information available we could have been even better. and we have to keep improving on that, just like we have to keep improving on the error solving part of the refunds, without getting too caught up in the whole thing, and we certainly have to keep improving our predictions.
mr president, commissioner, mr president of the court of auditors, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the court of auditors for presenting its report on the financial year 2017, as well as the 27 special reports also produced during this period. as the commissioner and other colleagues have pointed out, i think we should be pleased with this significant reduction in the overall level of error in payments. i think it is also important to stress the importance of the fact that the midterm review of the current financial perspective has introduced greater flexibility in the community budget; i do not know whether this is sufficient to meet the pressing challenges facing the european union, but in any case i think it is good news. i would like to share the concern expressed by mrs grässle about the level of accumulated or deferred payments, problems which will also be complicated by the prospect and the complexity of the brexit negotiations. as regards the whole question of compliance with the court of auditors' observations, commissioner, it is with satisfaction that i can say that the commission has complied with 75 of the 100 observations and has left only six uncompliant. as an alternative rapporteur for the other institutions, i would like to say that we will continue to try to improve things in this procedure, to try to make up for the shortcomings and to try to ensure that the taxpayer's resources are used in the best possible way.
cult. - (fr) mr president, this regulation is a new proposal, since there was no legislation on this subject, only the export regulation, which concerns only european goods. and i think it is especially relevant because this year, 2018, is the european year of cultural heritage. in the committee on culture and education we had two objectives: on the one hand, to prevent terrorism, organised crime and money laundering from being financed by the illegal purchase and sale of cultural goods from third countries; and on the other, to ensure the preservation of the cultural heritage of these countries. we also had to combine these fundamental objectives so that the european art market would not be harmed by too strict regulation, which would complicate the legal and usual market for european dealers, auction houses and museums. it has not been an easy task, as there were many conflicting interests, but i think we have managed to agree on a balanced text, and we are therefore pleased that the objectives i indicated earlier have been met.
the rapporteur. mr president, i am also pleased with the report on the regulation on the manufacture, placing on the market and use of medicated feedingstuffs and with the result achieved with my colleagues mrs grossetête and mr tănăsescu. i think in the end the result is quite positive. four years after the european commission launched a package of proposals to update the legislative framework for veterinary medicines, stricter rules have been proposed to make progress in the fight against antimicrobial resistance and to improve the availability and correct use of veterinary medicines in the european union. the proposal on medicated feedingstuffs is part of this legislative package. these feeds - 'medicated feeds' - are a route of administration of veterinary medicinal products, an effective tool for the treatment of animals in collectivities. as has already been said, the proposal on feedingstuffs is linked to the new legislation on medicinal products, to the three regulations. the proposal aims to update the 1990 directive, which is obsolete in many of its provisions, and to advance the internal market in medicated feedingstuffs by means of legislative harmonization which will now be established by means of regulations. the new text regulates the production, marketing and transport of medicated feedingstuffs and the correct administration to both animals intended for human consumption and pets. i would remind everyone that in addition to the specific provisions contained in this text, medicated feedingstuffs are also subject to other general legislation on hygiene and labelling of feedingstuffs, rules on the marketing and use of feedingstuffs and additives in animal feed. the agreement at first reading brings the feed regulation into line with the agreement on veterinary medicines reached by mrs grossetête. we have put a lot of emphasis on coordination, making our decisions in the trilogue dependent on the decisions and progress of the veterinary medicines trilogues as the main instrument. all matters relating to the authorization and requirements of the veterinary medicinal product to be applied to feed are regulated in the general text on veterinary medicinal products. we have paid particular attention to the coherence of the provisions designed to increase measures against antimicrobial resistance. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of antibiotics as growth promoters, which has been banned for many years. some important provisions: the preventive use of medicated feed with antibiotics is prohibited. prophylaxis is banned in the european union. metaphylaxis is reduced to cases of high risk to animal and/or human health under close surveillance, and explicit reference is made to the international dimension in the fight against antimicrobial resistance as set out in article 118 of the medicines regulation. in the context of international cooperation, and in line with the actions and policies of the world health organisation and the world organisation for animal health, progress in reducing the use of medicated feed containing antibiotics should be taken into account at global level for animals and products of animal origin from third countries exported to the european union. cross-contamination in the manufacturing process has also been a very important issue, and the efsa proposal will be submitted within four years. finally, thanks to the general coordination with the other two rapporteurs, we have achieved results which i believe are more than optimal. i believe we have achieved an ambitious regulation which will give consumers more certainty about livestock products in the european union and help us to achieve a victory in our fight against antimicrobial resistance.
mr president, as has already been said, there are many benefits to this regulation, but i would also like to highlight what i consider to be the most important: the fact that it has been able to include among its priorities one of the greatest challenges facing human health today, namely the fight against antimicrobial resistance. there are 25,000 deaths a year from not having the right antibiotic. and by 2050, if this continues, it will be higher than the number of cancer deaths. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the animal welfare system is properly managed. it has allowed for a restricted use list to be made of those antibiotics for human use; it has restricted the use of prophylaxis to exceptional and justified circumstances, or metaphylaxis, never to the detriment of hygiene or cleanliness; it has made veterinary prescription a must; it has, of course, banned the use for fattening or online sale, and it has made data collection possible. in short, as i said, a comprehensive vision, a very difficult job, but one that i think has been worthwhile. my congratulations to each of the speakers who have made this possible. i also join the call on the commission to legislate now and adopt a strong initiative so that we can combat this problem from the point of view of human health and human use.
the rapporteur. mr president, to conclude this debate, i would like to encourage the media, as some of my colleagues have already done, to report on the good result we have achieved together with everyone: the whole house, the european commission and the council. it is a very great result and it is good that it is known, because sometimes you only know the bad things and the bad results, and this is one of the things that should fill us with great satisfaction. i would like to thank everyone, all the alternative rapporteurs in my committee on agriculture and rural development, all the members of the committee, in which we have worked hard to achieve a broad, majority agreement, the one that society demanded from us today to offer guarantees in the fight against antimicrobial resistance; i would like to thank them all because the availability they have had has been very good; also my two co-authors for the good collaboration, because this final result would not have been understood without good collaboration; and commissioner andriukaitis, who i regret is not here - mrs bulc has replaced him perfectly - because she also gave a great boost to us to achieve this good result; and the austrian presidency, which gave a final boost to achieve it. i would like to end by paying tribute to the good work of european farmers, the efforts they have made over the last decade and over the last few years. they're adapting to the demands of society. they are adapting to what is required in a society with a full guarantee of food security. we only need to be as demanding when we introduce products from third countries as we are here. i hope it's a battle we can win soon, too, as we won today. i hope that the outcome will be very positive in the general interest of all europeans.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, welcome to the commission. it is clear that we are moving more and more towards the 'user pays' principle and also towards the 'polluter pays' principle, although i think that in the context of this proposal it should also be borne in mind that when we talk about zero emission vehicles, if it is zero, it is zero. and so, embellishing them with other things would perhaps be complicated, and i see that for the greens, in some cases, even zero-emission ones are not acceptable. in any case, in the peripheral countries, such as spain or portugal, or others, we are increasingly faced with a distance payment which is really a burden for many of our commercial products, which are sometimes or often of low added value. we therefore thank the rapporteur for having taken particular account of the territorial and social dimension in relation to both peri-urban and peripheral areas. and so we totally reject the greens' attempt to eliminate these possibilities, this capacity, because there are countries which are not only peripheral, but through which the train does not pass because there is no way of getting the train across the border and so at least that approach must be possible. some reservations: identifying motorcycles or trying to integrate them into cities, especially after the great crisis, has been a good alternative, on the one hand, to save congestion, but, above all, also to reduce the costs borne by those citizens who cannot afford another type of vehicle. we also find that there is a problem with the equation, not clearly distinguished, between heavy duty vehicles and light commercial vehicles, which can lead to a clear disadvantage for smes; at least we would like to see that in that case it could be made clearer in the subsequent negotiation. and finally, also in relation to reserves: a certain unilateral obligation that only those who have an onboard unit or a subscription can face that step. and of course i agree with the application to transport; even from spain - where we have always had problems with the treasury - we could be open to the application of the charges to mobility and transport.
mr president, commissioner, citizen involvement is essential, along with public policies, to achieve the objectives of the white paper on transport. smart mobility, more sustainable and guaranteeing the free movement of people and goods in the internal market. the rationality of the setting of infrastructure charges and the transparency of the use of the resources obtained through this route are key to achieving this. i therefore support the measures proposed here to eliminate discrimination between users, to prevent these charges from distorting competition in the internal market and to provide compensation for intensive users. we are also committed to taking into account the level of vehicle emissions when setting prices and i believe it is of course essential - and i have expressed this in my amendments - that the revenue generated by this route should be used directly to improve infrastructure. this measure will improve road safety, impact employment and accelerate the development of smart infrastructure and more sustainable mobility.
mr. president, most government buses and cars are highly polluting. to compensate for this, it is common sense that their new vehicles should be zero-emission. i recognize that it's not the easiest thing to do, but believe me, it's the most responsible and the most just. the un experts are very clear. to take advantage of the great economic, social and ecological opportunities of the paris climate agreement, we need much more ambitious measures and involve the whole of society. the cosmetic changes are no longer necessary. trying to whitewash dirty energy with misleading labels is not helping to take action on the big climate challenge. it's a matter of political vision. public administration is about setting an example for society, setting the bar high and always being one step ahead. that is, to lead, as barcelona, madrid or valencia, in spain, for example, to lead the energy transition, the fight for the climate and for cleaner air.
the objectives of this directive are clear: to reduce pollution, to eliminate greenhouse gases and to promote clean and non-polluting road transport, both public and private. but above all, they are urgent objectives. this means increasing the efficiency of vehicles with the aim of reaching zero emissions as soon as possible, but also the environmental commitment to recycling the material used in the production of vehicles and reusing them. the automobile industry's excuses, such as the different maturity of the vehicle market, for avoiding environmental requirements are not acceptable. the standard provides for sufficient adaptation time, and the industrial added value is in european battery production, among others. but it is also the public procurement of passenger transport vehicles which must play an essential role in ensuring that the objectives are met, and this is certainly through increasing aid and resources for local administrations.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of establishment, freedom to provide services and freedom of movement for students and workers within the union are fundamental principles of the treaties, which are at the root of the european construction. however, these freedoms are not yet guaranteed in practice and the process of mutual recognition of secondary and higher education diplomas remains underdeveloped. in the member states there are professions which are reserved for persons with certain professional qualifications and whose level and content are established within each national education system. in recent years we have adopted directives for the mutual recognition of diplomas, certificates and other academic and vocational qualifications. substantial progress has been made in higher education, in particular through agreements between member states, which can serve as inspiration for achieving automatic recognition within the european education area. among the measures we suggest, i would like to highlight the regular issuing of comparability statements for higher secondary education diplomas; the systematic use of the scoreboard and the european credit transfer system; the use of a european student card with the aim of facilitating the mutual recognition of diplomas and periods of study abroad, while reducing administrative burdens and costs. the resolution which accompanies the oral question from our committee on culture and education to the commission calls for cooperation in the field of education to be accelerated in order to ensure mutual automatic recognition of diplomas. improved cooperation in european education is a positive-sum game, more freedoms for citizens and greater benefits for all.
madam president, it has already been said here: we remember all the scandals that have been caused by breast implants: hundreds of thousands of people have been affected; we remember all the scandal with the hip implants made by the traiber company: since 2014, in the case of spain, seventy-four people have had a re-operation, and one of them even lost her life. so we're not talking about a trivial topic. this is about patient safety. i can understand that the commission is facing a new challenge which requires qualified staff, that we are also facing the brexit situation and that indeed a large part of these assessments and these experts came from the united kingdom, but really that cannot be an excuse for a moratorium or for delaying the implementation of a regulation which has already taken a long time and which has had enough moratorium. i therefore ask that the necessary measures be taken to implement it. we are talking about, as i say, patient safety. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the safety of the community's ships is not compromised. it would also need to take account of efficiency, because ideally we should have a centralised authorisation system in the european union for this type of device, which ensures safety and efficiency. today we talked about safety as a first step; we will have to continue talking about efficiency. but i ask the commission to step up its efforts because this is indeed one of the great challenges facing national health systems and patients today. i therefore encourage you not to delay the introduction and implementation of this type of regulation any further. and finally, one specific question. is it all a bureaucratic problem or is there also pressure from some interested sector or from some sector which feels that it is not yet ready for this to be implemented? i would like to know, because i really believe that this is an opportunity even for the competitiveness of the european union in terms of quality. i am aware that there is some resistance and i would like to know whether this is just a bureaucratic problem. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is 'blue card'. i am aware that we all want this to be implemented as soon as possible, but i would like to ask the commission whether it is really just a bureaucratic problem, a problem of resources, of personnel, of qualifications. if so, we need to study it, although that doesn't mean we don't have to ask you to please speed up and commit to a security issue like this. but i also wanted to point out or ask whether there might indeed be some kind of uncertainty or doubt that this cannot go as quickly as possible because there is some sector which feels that it is not prepared for it. i think that if that is the case, we must avoid it, because the regulation is more necessary than ever. i think the sector is ready and europe needs to be part of this regulation.
mr president, we are all in the same situation, but this parliament cannot afford not to vote on the jashogui resolution today. he can't afford it. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, please, i think we are giving an image that european citizenship does not deserve, and let us start with self-criticism. and secondly, we've been discussing procedure for eight minutes. we could have moved on. i ask you to do it quickly and to finish the voting today.
mr president, i was asking to speak and i was not able to take part in the vote; i want my vote to be recorded in the minutes. and i just wanted to remind the house that we have serious indications that the life of opposition leader maria corina machado is in danger. yesterday he was the victim of a serious attack, before that he was the victim of a brutal assault. i ask you, mr president, on behalf of the house, to convey our concern to the venezuelan authorities. this justifies the resolution we are going to vote on, and we ask you to take responsibility for the safety and physical integrity of this woman leader who shows great courage.
mr president, at the very moment when we are having this debate, in my country - spain - alcoa has just announced the closure of two factories in the aluminium sector. this should lead us to reflect on the role that european industry must play and on the need for the commission to present that industrial plan which aims to strengthen our companies; which aims to establish fair criteria so that there is competition on equal terms; that industrial plan which must see how it takes action against the dumping that is taking place and which is unfair competition that is leading us to a failure as europe. we cannot therefore stand idly by, especially in sectors such as steel and aluminium, which are suffering the blow, which are weakening and closing and in which we are losing jobs. we must act without hesitation and not stand idly by.
mr president, more than eight million people are currently affected by the decision of the spanish supreme court - 'this is no joke' - and that is why we want europe to say something and to have the last word, as it did with the tax on economic activities, as it did also with the mortgage payment. wouldn't be the first time. and we want to bring this issue up here because there are almost eight million people affected by a decision that makes the banks the beneficiaries again. this is not the first time that the court of justice has decided; it already did so at the end of 2016, at the end of 2017. and hopefully by the end of 2018 it will also give the right to the people who have been robbed by the banks.
mr president, i would like to make it clear to the house, so that there is no confusion, that following that judgment of the supreme court, the spanish government has already taken the decision that precisely what the supreme court had agreed - namely that a spanish tax should be levied on citizens and not paid by the banks - has already been reversed and, as a result of the decree which came into force last saturday, that tax is now paid by the banks. in any event, if there is any appeal, as has happened on other occasions, it will be the strasbourg court which will decide.
the rapporteur. madam president, today we can say that europe is responding to the challenge of climate change. the agreement reached in june on the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources is a great agreement. for a number of reasons: firstly, because we are going to double the current rate of renewable energy and go beyond that, i have no doubt, in the review of 2023; because we are increasing legal certainty and simplifying administrative procedures, which are crucial to guaranteeing investments; or because we are increasing the share of renewables in highly polluting sectors such as heating, cooling or transport. but there is one unique element in this directive which i would like to stress. europe is often accused of being aloof, out of step and not listening to its citizens, and today we can proudly say that europe has not only listened to them but has put them at the heart of energy policy. we have done so by enshrining for the first time the right to self-consumption, that is to say, the right to produce, the right to consume, the right to store and the right to sell the surplus energy produced. we have done so by committing to extend the benefits of renewables to the most vulnerable citizens, contributing to the fight against energy poverty. and we have done this by pushing for just energy transition measures so that those territories where the weight of coal was very important can have a just transition process, that they understand that no one leaves them to their fate. the commitment to renewables is a commitment to innovation, it is a commitment to economic activity, it is a commitment to quality employment in a sector where europe has the basis to regain world leadership, and it is a commitment to our own energy sources to become more energy independent. yes, one of the pillars of the energy union is precisely to strengthen our energy independence. that is why we have opened the way with this directive. moreover, this agreement we have reached, together with the efficiency agreement, will allow us to be much more ambitious, commissioner, in the decarbonisation targets that the european union had set for itself of 40% by 2030. we can go further, we can review it and we can reach 45%. europe must be ambitious and therefore raise its commitments at the next climate summit by giving a sign of leadership and above all by giving a sign of commitment to the world, especially now that the united states has left the paris agreement. and if these achievements have been possible, it has been because of the climate of mutual trust, teamwork and commitment of the whole negotiating team of parliament and also the commitment of the commission and, very singularly, of the alternative rapporteurs - kelly, federley, tamburrano, henkel, paloma and turmes - and also of the colleagues in the committee on the environment, led by mr bas. the motto of the european union is 'united in diversity'. our views were different, but we were able to move forward together to achieve our goals. that has certainly been our strength and the key to our success.
member of the commission. – madam president, it is a real pleasure to be here today to discuss three files which are central for the clean energy for all europeans package. i would like to take this opportunity in plenary to thank you all for the role that the european parliament delegation played in june in securing a political agreement. my special thanks go to the four rapporteurs: josé blanco lópez, miroslav poche, michèle rivasi and claude turmes, and also jakop dalunde. i would of course also like to thank president jerzy buzek and adina-ioana vălean, and all the shadow rapporteurs involved. without them we would not have got such an ambitious package. at the beginning of next month the cop 24 meets in katowice, where we are aiming for a successful outcome to agree on the detailed rules for the implementation of the paris agreement. the european union needs to assert its leadership and, by giving the files under the clean energy package its strong support, this parliament can play an important role in making this happen. closing these files strengthens the european union position as one of the most active leaders in the energy transition process and helps raise our collective ambition. these are perhaps the three most important dossiers in terms of delivering tangible benefits because of the targets contained in these new rules. they will set a stable and predictable legal framework for the way forward and enable us to make this major transformation for the economy and society – the clean energy transition. let me now say a few words about the three different dossiers, starting with energy efficiency. the key element in the agreement is that it sets a new headline energy efficiency target for the european union for 2030 of at least 32.5%, with an upward revision clause by 2023. thanks to the european parliament, we now have an ambitious outcome for 2030. the changes will also extend the current annual energy-saving obligation beyond 2020. this is a measure that has been a key driver in the progress made in recent years. taken together, these targets are vital as they will attract private investment and support the emergence of new market actors. this will also help drive research and innovation towards finding new solutions. ‘energy efficiency first’ is a key principle of our energy policy. it is an area where ambition pays off in terms of benefits for reinforced security of supply, improved competitiveness of our industries, gdp growth, and increased employment. the agreed text includes a number of tangible benefits for consumers, such as possible savings on their energy bills, improved living conditions and improved air quality. furthermore, consumer rights on billing and individual metering will be strengthened. the new rules will make household bills more transparent to ensure that they are more understandable. last but not least, energy efficiency measures also represent an important instrument for alleviating energy poverty. let me turn now to the renewable energy directive. here again the position of the parliament delegation was instrumental in securing a higher target for 2030. the text foresees a new binding renewable energy target for the european union for 2030 of at least 32%. it also includes a review clause by 2023 for an upward revision of the european union-level target. this is considerably higher than the 27% target originally outlined two years ago. in broader terms, the revised directive further ‘europeanises’ our approach to renewable energy, creating conditions for a cost—efficient deployment of renewables across the european union. it introduces the principle of non—retroactivity for support provided, improves the design of support schemes for renewables to make it more market-oriented, and it streamlines the administrative procedures. for consumers, it establishes a clear and stable regulatory framework on self—consumption – for the first time in european union legislation – which i believe will encourage more and more households to become actively involved in the clean energy transition as consumers. on the design and support schemes and the scope of tendering, the commission would like to reiterate, though, that while fully supporting the objectives of the directive, the commission considers that they could be achieved without the respective wording of article 4. this declaration has been transmitted to the european parliament and will be annexed to the minutes. that brings me to the third and final file, the new governance regulation. while the revisions of the two directives will provide further impetus for investment in renewables and energy efficiency – the two major elements contributing to reducing greenhouse gas emissions – the governance regulation establishes the process, ensuring member states achieve this in a coherent and the most efficient way possible across all dimensions of the energy union. it complements the european union ets directive, the efforts sharing and lulucf regulations, and provides genuine european added value. the new regulation requires each member state to prepare an integrated national energy and climate plan for a 10-year period, starting with 2021 to 2030. this unique tool will allow assessing progress in achieving the energy union and our targets as it will, for the first time, encompass all relevant policies and measures of member states and the results of regional cooperation. the commission may then make recommendations on the plans aimed at ensuring, in case of deviations, that the european union meets the 2030 energy and climate targets in the most coherent, collaborative and cost—effective way. the european parliament and the council will address, on an annual basis, progress achieved in the energy union in all dimensions of energy and climate policy. i must underline that the rules fully respect member states’ choices in determining their own energy mix. but it brings a fair and robust mechanism to facilitate the collective attainment of the binding european union renewables target, the european union energy efficiency target and the 15% interconnection target, while also considering research, innovation and competitiveness. for the sake of completeness, let me recall two declarations made by the commission during the negotiations: our commitment to analyse methane emissions, while at the same time preserving our right of initiative; and on the importance of a clear division of competences within the future two committees assisting the commission in the implementation of the regulation, which we would have preferred to be in one single committee. these declarations are transmitted to the european parliament and will be annexed to the minutes. the adoption of these three dossiers will mean that we will have finalised half of the clean energy for all europeans package and set our main energy-related targets for 2030. the fact that the targets agreed are higher than those originally proposed by the commission means that we can probably achieve even steeper emission reductions by 2030. our latest modelling suggests that meeting these targets will de facto enable a reduction of emissions of roughly 45% across the european union by 2030, going beyond the 40% paris agreement commitment. this will allow the european union to show true leadership with real action in next month’s cop 24 talks in katowice. we are making progress on the other clean energy dossiers – regarding electricity market design, including risk preparedness – and i am optimistic that, with the same ambition and constructive approach from all sides that we have shown on these files, we can conclude these before the end of the year under the austrian council presidency. taken together with other parts of the package, i am convinced that these changes will have a positive impact on our quality of life and ultimately lead to cheaper household energy bills. similarly, negotiations on the low—carbon mobility package are advancing and we hope to conclude the files under this parliament. you will also be aware that the commission concept for the next multiannual financial framework will put climate—related spending at the heart of our budget. as well as raising the ambition for climate, including clean energy transition mainstreaming across all european union programmes from 20% to at least 25% from 2021 onwards, we are looking to boost the level of spending in all the main budget areas, notably research and structural investment. one of the main legacies of this commission and this parliament will be that we have put climate change and clean energy transition at the heart of our agenda. this is what we need to explain to our citizens, especially in the run—up to the next european elections, where you can be proud of the important progress achieved together. i look forward to the debate. statements by the commission(in writing)proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources (recast)“ the commission notes that both co-legislators have agreed on article 4 with the content going beyond the general principles of the commission proposal com(2016) 767 final. while fully supporting the objectives of the directive, the commission considers that they could be achieved without the agreed wording of paragraphs 3 (third sub-paragraph), 4 (second and third sub-paragraphs), 5 and 6 of article 4, as demonstrated by the currently applicable directive 2009/28/ec. ”proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the governance of the energy union amending directive 94/22/ec, directive 98/70/ec, directive 2009/31/ec, regulation (ec) no 663/2009, regulation (ec) no 715/2009, directive 2009/73/ec, council directive 2009/119/ec, directive 2010/31/eu, directive 2012/27/eu, directive 2013/30/eu and council directive (eu) 2015/652 and repealing regulation (eu) no 525/2013 commission statement on methane on article 16 the commission notes the agreement of the co-legislators relating to article 16 by which a strategic plan should be presented for methane. the commission confirms its commitment to analyse methane emissions, notably in the context of the union's long-term strategy. the commission emphasizes however that it reserves the right to respond in accordance with the rules of the treaty, with due regard in particular to its right of initiative. commission statement on article 44 the regulation on the governance of the energy union is central to the clean energy for all europeans package. this regulation aims to set out the process ensuring the ambition and coherence of policies and measures which are taken at various levels for the achievement of the energy union objectives and, in particular, the 2030 eu climate and energy targets. in their joint declaration on the eu's legislative priorities for 2018 - 2019, the three institutions committed to delivering on the objective of an ambitious energy union with a forward-looking climate change policy, notably by implementing the 2030 eu climate and energy framework, by continuing to follow up the paris agreement, including through legislation on clean energy for all europeans. against this background, the commission notes the agreement of the co-legislators relating to article 44, which provides that the commission shall be assisted by two committees in the implementation of the regulation. the commission regrets that the co-legislators could not accept the commission proposal that the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the commission should be under the control of a single committee, in full compliance with the applicable comitology rules set forth in regulation 182/2011 and in view of streamlining and better regulation. the commission reiterates the importance of a clear division of competences between the committees which is essential for a proper exercise of the commission's implementing powers and the application of regulation 182/2011 establishing horizontal rules applicable to committees.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, un experts are very expensive. to avoid the tremendous consequences of climate change and to reap the enormous economic, social and ecological benefits of complying with the paris climate agreement, we must be realistic, that is, ambitious. that is, to reduce our emissions by 55 percent by 2030, as this house has proposed, and to achieve net zero emissions by 2040. any long-term strategy of the european commission has to be compatible with limiting global warming to 1.5°c. cop 24 is just a month away, and europe has the capacity and the responsibility to lead the global climate ambition. and for this, the potential of citizen energy is fundamental. let us make europeans the real protagonists of the energy revolution, by betting on a model that is democratic, fair, sustainable and decentralised. that's the way, sir.
madam president, there is no denying the positive aspects of the directive on the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources in terms of renewable energy communities, self-consumption and support measures, among others. the remainder of the 'efficiency and governance' package has unfortunately not delivered the same result and will therefore be insufficient as a whole to meet the objectives set out in the paris agreement and to curb the serious consequences of climate change. the council has fallen short of the ambitions demanded by european citizens, especially with regard to transport, the use of biofuels and the lack of binding targets for each country. we need more ambition that meets the requirements for the preservation of life on the planet, because that is precisely what we are talking about. once again, some countries have put the short-term interests of multinationals above the general interests of society. in the current scenario, the rise of the far right in countries such as brazil or the united states adds more concerns in this area. the authoritarian agenda sees the defense of the environment as an enemy to be beaten and nature as a resource to be mined. we have a short time to reverse this situation, and renewable energy is part of the solution in a just energy transition process. but it's not enough. let us not miss this opportunity: we are playing with the future, and the european union can and must take up this challenge.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what is at stake goes beyond a directive. what's at stake is the future of the planet. the agreements we have reached on renewables, on efficiency and on governance are important not only because we have managed to raise the ambition of this standard. they are important because they put europe on the path to meeting the paris agreement and the sustainable development goals. because they align the promises of europe with the facts that make them possible. because they reaffirm european global leadership by signalling where the world should be heading. that is what we must do. the climate summit must urgently raise the targets to mitigate the consequences of global warming. it is urgent because, as the ipcc has just stressed in its latest report, climate change is a reality with very serious consequences for ecosystems, human health and the economy. and what's coming is worse if we don't act. it is urgent because it is also crucial for our development and our future competitiveness. there is no alternative. it's here and it's now, there won't be another chance. let us therefore support these measures and continue, as many colleagues have pointed out, to work tirelessly to make progress and, if possible, to make more progress in the fight we all have to fight to save the planet. this is a step forward, but we have a long way to go.
in writing. the third legislative package regulated energy efficiency and the development of renewables during a decade in which there were many european leaders who were climate change deniers. it is no longer disputed that we are the cause of climate change, but if the ipcc recommendations are ignored, which, although they warn of the serious consequences that emissions will have, it is not planned to achieve the reductions necessary to limit global temperature to +1.5o. 85% of the primary energy consumed in the world comes from burning oil, coal and gas, which according to the imf receive more than €4.7 trillion in annual subsidies. while bodies such as the oecd are calling on world leaders to limit these subsidies and decarbonise the economy, the agreements reached in the new directives are not ambitious enough. while the energy governance regulation will ensure that renewables and efficiency targets are met, avoiding past mistakes, without compliance planning, and without adjustment mechanisms, more ambition and conviction will be needed from our leaders if we are to be a global leader in the fight against the greatest threat facing humanity.
madam president, commissioner, it has never been true that democracy consists solely and simply of majority rule. i'm not sure. democracy consists essentially in the protection of minorities, and also in guaranteeing the role of the opposition; but, above all, in respect for the sovereignty of the individual in the enjoyment of his fundamental rights. and that is exactly what article 2 of the treaty on european union says. and if the european union has embarked on the so-called 'copenhagen dilemma' in an attempt to give substance to the mandate of commitment to the rule of law, democracy, respect for fundamental rights and their judicial protection by an independent judiciary, it must also arrive at a structured and articulated mechanism for the protection of minorities in the european union. because that protection is frankly in retreat with the advance of the discourse of discrimination and its practice, of the discourse of hatred and its practice, and with the policy of exclusion and its practice, which is rampant in a number of member states in an alarming and threatening way to the founding values of the union. that is why this resolution is important. it is important that we are able to build an articulated mechanism for the protection of minorities which will respond to this regression, to this regression of the democratic quality of the constitutional state which denies the founding values of the union.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work in defence of the rights of millions of europeans who are discriminated against because they are members of a national minority. it is a further contribution to the fight against nationalism, because the nationalisms of the states are hindering many of the proposals for european integration, but they also make it more difficult by denying traditional national realities, by attacking the fundamental rights of its members, by preventing their institutional representation with exclusive electoral legislation and thus generating serious territorial problems which, although officially denied, affect our union to the full. the community institutions acknowledge this open secret in private and need tools. that is why we support binding european legislation to protect minorities, even to mediate when problems arise, because we have already seen that exclusionary nationalism can, by twisting the law, justify violent police action against peaceful citizens or turn a political problem into a criminal matter and end up imprisoning public officials for their political activities, something which should be impossible in our union.
madam president, commissioner crețu, next week in las palmas de gran canaria - 'the canaries, my land' - the summit of the outermost regions will take place, with president juncker in attendance. and the ultraperipheral meetings are important for the countries in which they are held: spain, portugal and france. but for the european union, the ultraperipheral meetings are extremely important, and i quote the president of this parliament, mr tajani, because they are an opportunity to verify the scope of article 349 in the future of europe, in the multiannual financial framework, in energy and neighbourhood policies, in the transeuropean networks and, above all, in employment. but it is also important to review the impact of brexit on regions highly dependent on the mass flow of tourists, many of them from the uk. finally, it is very important that the conquest of the future does not dilute, much less destroy or set back the traditional policies of the european union for the primary sector, that it does not diminish posei, which is vital for this dimension of the primary sector in the economic, ecological and social fields.
mr president, alcoa is not closing. i want to support the struggle of alcoa workers because of the worrying situation of the american multinational alcoa, which has announced the closure of its factories in a coruña, galicia, and avilez, asturias, and which represents the loss of 700 direct jobs in the spanish state's aluminium monopoly. it is about the closure of a company after receiving a large amount of public money and the risks that it represents for the industry in my country to have one of the most expensive invoices in europe. we cannot allow a multinational to increase its accounts with public money and then carry out a brutal job-killing. we therefore denounce this problem in this european parliament, we stand in solidarity with the workers and we ask that the company not use the employment regulation procedure. in addition, it should not continue to circumvent the law and, as a monopoly, we are asking for public intervention by the spanish state, which is more than justified because it is a strategic undertaking. alcoa's not closing!
madam president, we are clearly seeing that the spanish judiciary has a problem. one of the pillars of any democracy, a properly functioning judicial system that generates trust, is tottering right now in the spanish state. the european court of human rights has shown this to us every time it condemns spain for violating fundamental rights. we have seen this last week from the spanish supreme court itself, which scandalously contradicted its own judgments, which are theoretically sound, when it finally gave the banks the right and ruled that it was the customer who should continue to pay the mortgage tax, and we have seen this from cases such as alsasua, la manada and many others. in relation to the process against catalan democratic independence, looking at this background, looking at the instruction that has been given so far, looking at the fables that appear in the judicial proceedings about violence, rebellion, being treated as if it were an political trial, can anyone trust that the catalan political prisoners will have a fair trial? we didn't. the spanish judicial system has a problem and the european union should be concerned.
madam president, the la naval sestao shipyards in biscay are the only ones that have remained open to date of all the shipyards that were privatised in the last decade. their staff has decades of experience. they've built the world's largest dredges or high-tech gas tanks. but now they're threatening to shut them down. the situation in his region of ezkerraldea, which receives erdf funds because of the high unemployment rates, is also worrying. the closure of a company which may generate up to four thousand direct and indirect jobs will undoubtedly have a devastating effect. it will do little good if the administrations stand idly by in the face of this threat of closure. the best way to recover the presence of public shareholding in strategic sectors is to do so now. and not only is it the best, it's possible. public entry into la naval is possible within the european union's own rules. it is therefore time for the spanish government and the basque government to stop looking the other way, to stop worrying and to give a future to both la naval and the ezkerraldea region.
madam president, last october, julián carrillo, an indigenous leader, gabriel soriano kuri, a journalist, and noel castillo aguilar, a defender of the rights of indigenous peoples, were murdered in mexico. according to the united nations, ten journalists and twelve human rights defenders have been killed in mexico in 2018 alone. the renewal of the global agreement between the european union and mexico is about to be completed, but it is essential that a democratic clause be included in it that binds us all. there should be no business without ethics. that is why it is important that the democratic clause be guaranteed, that it can be controlled, reviewed, and that civil society organizations and indigenous defenders of the earth and the environment can denounce its breach. the hope that comes to us with the election of president lópez obrador must be expressed in a strong, rigorous text that really defends democracy and justice for mexico and for the european union. otherwise it would be a terrible and incomprehensible disappointment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. madam president, i would like to point out that the need, right now, for a prior strategy such as europe 2020 makes us wonder, in the committee on budgetary control, why we do not have that fundamental basis for a sound strategy in order to assess and evaluate the budget for results. that is to say, it is no longer enough to simply commit expenditure to the budget in a regular and legal way, and even with errors of more and more close to 2%, which we welcome, but we also need tangible results for the promises we continue to make in terms of socioeconomic recovery and the creation of decent jobs. and the first mistake in budgetary control is to under-budget new and urgent ambitions. the expenditure on migration, cooperative self-sufficiency in security and defence, the strengthening and europeanisation of development cooperation and the fight against climate change, but also the fight against poverty and the indebtedness of society and citizens, therefore need a counter-budget draft such as the one presented today. and we also need, also, those sources of own resources that eliminate the late-night marketing of the long knives. we welcome simplification, although we need fewer but clearer and more meaningful objectives and indicators, and we welcome the alignment of the budget with legislative cycles and measures to reduce the gap between commitments and payments.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. madam president, the budget is the most powerful political instrument we have to turn the will into reality, and therefore incorporating the gender perspective into the next financial framework is a mandatory and essential issue. and we also have to find a balance between being able to guarantee that transversality but also putting in place specific policy instruments on equality between men and women. and that is why it is essential that when we talk about the structural funds and regional policy, when we talk about the common agricultural policy, when we put in place instruments for cooperation policy, we take into account the gender perspective. but it is also essential, indispensable and obligatory that we are able to guarantee specific instruments in the fight against gender-based violence, to incorporate specific measures for reconciling family and working life; that we are aware that european policy needs this gender perspective to fulfil one of the fundamental values of the union, which is equality between men and women.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, this week the lux prize is being cancelled and the protagonist of one of the films, which is a documentary, says a sentence that has stuck with me: they live in a parallel reality, building their lives outside the system, ignoring the circumstances, and they don't see the moment when those circumstances change dramatically. and i think that's what's happening: that the circumstances of europe and the world are changing. and some of them haven't even realized it yet, they're still thinking about the budget as they did ten years ago. as if there were no new problems, as if there were no new needs, as if the scene had not changed. and we're not there anymore. we are in the post-brexit era, in which, paradoxically, support for the european project has increased greatly. we are also in a period when nationalisms are re-emerging inside and outside the union, when fear is overtaking hope. we are at a time when the shock of the economic crisis is passing, but its medium and long-term effects are more present than ever. inequality and climate change are the biggest challenges we have to face in the next decade. and the european parliament does not want to ignore the circumstances, the commitments and its responsibility. and that is why we have a proposal for the period 2021-2027 that is sensible, reasonable, reasoned and, above all, supported by a large majority of mps. from the left, from the centre and from the right; from the north and from the south; from the founding countries and from the last ones to join this project. because we believe in the european union project; because what we are defending are budgets for the europe of the future, for innovative agriculture, for reducing inequalities between regions and between people, for making the union a welcoming land, for being an example in the fight against climate change, for being at the forefront of research or cultural creation and for being, also, the haven of fiscal justice. we don't want a council that's trying too hard. if you have a problem with unanimity, change that rule. we want a council that can provide solutions. change your circumstances and work for an agreement where everyone wins and not everyone loses.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the european union is in trouble and our answer to this troubled situation must be built on political ambition and clear goals. but to achieve these goals we need resources and i would say we need more resources than those we have now. we need to manage better, sure, but we also need more money to tackle social and environmental challenges. talking always about challenges and the need to deliver, but missing the opportunity to make more funds available, which is completely feasible, would be much too inconsistent. parliament is proposing, through this report and previous reports, a stronger multiannual budget. it’s not 100% the kind of budget with the kind of priorities that my group and i would like to see. it’s certainly not the greens/efa’s mff but still, parliament’s proposal is definitely better than the commission’s proposal and it’s sending the council a clear message: we are prepared for the negotiations, we did our homework, now it’s your turn and we will not accept further steps backwards. for the many living in precarious conditions, they cannot wait. social and regional inequalities cannot keep growing further. the climate and energy transition cannot wait. progress on sustainable development cannot see more delays. youngsters looking for more opportunities cannot wait. the defence of our core values cannot surrender to populists of all kinds wishing to undermine democracy and individual and collective freedoms. we also need to see substantial changes on the own resources side. there is only one way to increase the budget without member states complaining about their increased contributions and their need to justify them to their citizens, and this is by having new own resources. we support the commission’s proposal in this regard, but more concrete steps will have to be taken if the goal of 40% of member states’ contributions is to be attained in the near future. we need responsible ambitions and a forward—looking mff. we need to stick to our proposals, otherwise i’m afraid we won’t be able to support an mff that is not up to the current challenges.
madam president, defence policy will go from about 500 billion to 17 billion; security policy from 1.9 billion to 24 billion; and we will also move from a policy of development cooperation to a policy of outsourcing of borders amounting to 114 billion euros, conditional and non-solidarity. this is what the next multiannual financial framework will be about when we put into practice and translate into resources all the speeches we are hearing from the commission and the council. these are their priorities and their fears, as of today. the mff should be a medium-term plan, a plan that would serve to consolidate the political lines and principles we want to defend - which in my opinion should be equality, social justice, the fight against climate change or internal cohesion - and this can only be achieved with a flexible framework and without placing a ceiling on own resources and expenditure, which are increasingly constraining us towards a future of more austerity. you know that 1.08 per cent of the commission's gni or 1.3 per cent of the european parliament's gni is not enough and that in a budget it should generally be around 8 per cent to avoid inequalities; a budget - the budget of the european union - which should grow and should be complementary to national budgets and adjusted, of course, by the per capita income of each member state. it is not just a question of having more resources, of course, but of spending them better and making decisions more democratically, and thus looking to the future of all.
i, like the report we are voting on tomorrow, want an ambitious financial framework which provides the means for the european union to achieve its objectives and to meet the important challenges it faces, and the commission, in its proposal, does not provide sufficient means. i, in particular, do not want to see cuts in cohesion policy or in the common agricultural and fisheries policies. i know that brexit means fewer resources, but i also know that we are living in a time of populism and a rise of anti-european forces. we cannot weaken the cohesion policy or the agricultural and fisheries policies and thus give pretexts, arguments, to those who want to attack the union. i would also like to stress one very specific point. the problem of population decline, which is already affecting many regions of europe, as commissioner oettinger knows. among them, my own land, galicia, and other regions of spain. the demographic winter is already a serious european problem, and we need european budgets to help meet this serious challenge.
mr president, i wanted to show my vote in favour of this report. this multiannual plan for small pelagic stocks in the adriatic is the third of the management plans submitted by the european commission under the new cfp and, as has happened or is happening with the plan for demersal stocks in the western mediterranean, the commission has taken too long to submit the proposals for these management plans. hence his difficulties at the moment. scientists agree that the specificity of mediterranean fisheries, with a clear multi-species component and a predominance of small-scale fishing, make tacs and quotas not an option for restoring fishing opportunities throughout the mediterranean. other management methods based on technical measures and effort reductions through adaptation of existing management plans or that which can be established at eu level are preferable.
mr president, mrs merkel, you come here to visit us in the european parliament at a very important moment in your political career and at a critical moment for europe. now that he has announced that he will begin to leave his responsibilities to the head of his political party and, later, to the head of the german chancellery, it is time to take stock, to take stock of his mandate, which is also to take stock of the last decade in europe. and it's true that there are different ways of looking at what his legacy will be, right? a moral, stoic leadership, pillar of stability for europe, or the last responsible for a negligent economic management of the sovereign debt crisis, and a wall in the face of the reforms that have been needed. and his legacy, how will it go down in history? it will depend on what you do in your time at the helm over the next few years whether you are able to lead the reforms in the euro area on migration and on foreign and security policy to integrate and force a united and strong and just voice of europe in the world.
mr president, it is very useful that you are here in the european parliament, because then we do not have to tell you that the trojan horse of the european union is also here in this house. and that is precisely why we are asking the european leaders to show a little more firmness, a little more conviction, a little more strength, so that we ourselves can be the driving force behind the construction of europe and not they who are driving the destruction of europe. and so, what many of my colleagues have told you is very, very urgent. you have to unblock in the council many of the measures which this parliament - and in some cases the commission - has asked you to take. the european leadership is now in question precisely because there are absolutely powerful forces that have come to break down what we have taken so long to build. and you, germany - you have also seen how many german spokesmen have spoken in this house - you have a special responsibility and we hope that you will do your duty in this historic case.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, we are facing a minimum agreement, but an agreement which is necessary to be able to have a common european position. we must remember that humanitarian crises are not atmospheric phenomena, but are the product of our policies. policies like the sale of weapons. in fact, this european parliament has repeatedly voted against, for example, the sale of arms and the boycott of arms sales to dictatorships such as saudi arabia. but we see how member countries of the european union continue to sell weapons to saudi arabia on a regular basis. the spanish government's position is particularly bloody, the position of the socialist government, which seems to be a saudi contractor, which seems to be the saudi butler in europe. i think that the european parliament must take binding positions. otherwise, they'll be wet paper. we cannot simply wait for governments to look the other way when it comes to what is said in this house. and steps must be taken to stop the effective sale of weapons to places of conflict ... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, the need for a state to exercise effective control over arms transfers is universally accepted. however, arms exports keep fuelling conflicts and are a tool for mass violations of human rights. yemen is just one, but a very sad, example of this. some member states, like spain, continue providing arms to saudi arabia, despite the common position, despite the regime’s behaviour, despite this parliament’s position and despite the well-known end use of arms, because as we know, business is business. but eu member states’ divergent policies and practices in arms exports controls make it more difficult to achieve the goals of our common position; indeed, they undermine the common position. we want the eu to act as a uniform, credible and responsible foreign policy actor, also in the eyes of citizens. but this will not happen until member states act in a more consistent, brave and responsible way.
mr president, the common position defining common rules governing the control of exports of military technology and equipment, which has been binding since 2008, is an essential element of our common security policy, but the problem is that the member states must respect it. i would like to thank the rapporteur for the report, because i think it sums up very well all the challenges we have for proper implementation. firstly, the data, because the member states still do not give all the data to coarm, which is the one that makes the annual report on compliance. and, obviously, that tells us that the non-compliance is much higher, that phenomenon is much higher than what is actually exposed in the data. but there are member states which continue to send arms and sell arms to countries which violate human rights, which violate humanitarian law, which is contrary to the principles of the common position. and we also have a problem with the tracking of these weapons, which often end up in terrorist organizations, with the problem of dual-use weapons, and so on and so forth. finally, a proposal which i think is important, which is contained in the report. the european defence fund. we must be very careful that this does not finance arms exports which are illegal in the eyes of the common position.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, national competition authorities are an essential tool for controlling a single market which focuses on economic aspects and the pursuit of greater business profits. the intention to move towards common standards for its operation and to improve its efficiency should be viewed positively. however, this proposal for a directive does not mean that we are moving in the right direction. it is true that aspects such as clemency programs are improving. however, the central aspects, such as the increase in the minimum amounts of penalties, have not been taken into account. the ceilings set by the commission, which are clearly insufficient, are maintained. competition fines must have a deterrent effect. otherwise, they are pointless, since committing illegal acts is very cheap. we also regret that a minimum cooling-off period has not been established for those who have been involved in specific reports and companies, thereby avoiding the unfortunately well-known conflicts of interest and revolving doors. finally, the necessary independence of these bodies in their inspection and control work can only be ensured by guaranteeing sufficient resources by specific laws not subject to the interests of governments. it is no use having competition rules if the inspection and control bodies at member state level cannot do their job properly.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president i am a little puzzled, mrs gál, because the european people's party supported the resolution supporting the un global compact on migration, that is to say, this parliament has already voted in favour. you should know that, because you are a member of this parliament. the austrian presidency should also be aware of this. that this parliament supports the united nations global compact on migration. i will not define what the pact is, because commissioner stylianides has done it much better than i would. what i do say is that it is very sad and very shameful that your government has decided not to support this pact. it causes sadness because it is a very unwise decision. because we in europe are the ones most interested in a global management of migration, and we have always called for it. and it is a shame, a great shame, that a government like yours does not want to support a multilateral approach to migration management. and much more shame is caused when you are presiding over the european union at the moment. and i do not know how you are going to represent the european union in marrakesh if your government has decided not to follow the pact. i ask you to reconsider. we cannot weaken a position which is a global position, which benefits not only the european union but the dignity of all people. you are representing all of us, and therefore you have a greater obligation than others. hungary seems to be breaking the pact. czech republic too. poland too. you want to follow that path? the path of closed nationalism, of xenophobia, of exclusion of human beings who need our help. are you really going to maintain that position and continue to preside over the european union? we are deeply ashamed of their position and we are saddened, if anything, that austria has decided not to support a global pact for the dignified and orderly management of migration.
madam president, i shall begin by reading article 13 of the universal declaration of human rights: 'everyone has the right to move freely and to choose his residence within the territory of a state. everyone has the right to leave any country, including his own, and to return to his country. end of the date. the european union's commitment to migrants and refugees must be firm, and so must the global compact. the emergency trust fund to address the root causes of migration in africa or the union's legislative package on migration and asylum are two key union tools to help address this situation. in an interdependent world, the most effective way for the international community to address these challenges is to do so together. the union has a duty to show its commitment to these agreements, especially when other actors, such as the united states, take a stand. the european union and its member states must be seen, both within and outside its borders, as guarantors and protectors of the universal declaration of human rights, the 1951 geneva convention relating to the status of refugees and this global agreement.
mr president, moving towards an orderly management of immigration is a matter of common sense and dignity. of common sense, because it's a phenomenon that will live with us. let those who oppose this agreement have no illusions: migration will exist as long as there is deep inequality and exclusion in the world. and dignity, because, since there is going to be migration, we must respect the human rights of all those who undertake it. we are doing a disservice by not going together, projecting an image of division within the union. but i have to say to the austrian presidency, very clearly: austria has taken a stand as a country against the agreement, but it cannot take a stand as the union presidency, because the majority of us are in favour of the agreement. if he cannot represent us, he should resign, resign and be replaced by a third party in the representation of the marrakesh meeting.
mr president, the austrian presidency, the unilateral decision taken by some member states to withdraw from the global compact, both on migration and on refugees, is an incomprehensible decision, but above all it is harmful, detrimental to the interests of the union, which is what we are talking about. the presidency is here representing the union. we, as the european parliament, represent a common vision which is full of meaning when it comes to regulating migration flows. because the global compact is not intended to encourage or stop migration, but to order it, to give it some rationality, some sanity, some dignity, and it requires a common response from the european union. it is therefore deeply damaging and detrimental to the interests of the union that attempts are being made to curb the effort which the united nations requires from a global actor called europe. i therefore ask the presidency to consider its position or resign its presidency at the marrakesh summit.
the rapporteur. mr president, commissioner, 90% of the people who have come to the european union seeking asylum and have been able to lodge their applications have done so by arriving irregularly. the reason is very simple, and it is that they were not given any opportunity to do so regularly. there was no option, no legal path to safe access, so those who did get there are the survivors of a terrible adventure, in which they risked everything and often lost everything. they risked their lives and those of their loved ones, and often lost them. thirty thousand deaths in the mediterranean. and time and again, when we have debated this chilling fact in the european parliament, we have used the word 'shame' to our advantage, urging the commission and the council to respond. but this parliament is prepared to support that response, to promote that response. and this legislative initiative by the european parliament is part of the answer. it is an attempt to open up a legal pathway for asylum seekers and refugees, or those seeking some form of humanitarian protection, to go to a consulate or embassy of the european union in their country of origin or transit and legitimately claim regular access to the european union, without having to expose themselves to the trafficking mafias, the networks of illicit trafficking and exploitation of human beings, which systematically violate fundamental rights and prey on the most vulnerable people: women and defenseless children. this humanitarian response is part of the european parliament's sustained demand. we have signed it and voted for it by large majorities in this european parliament again and again in our most significant resolutions. the resolution of 12 april 2016 called for a holistic approach, i.e. one that covers all the elements of migration and the application for asylum and refuge, in compliance with european law, which provides for common responsibility and shared management of external borders, migration flows and asylum applications. as long as this common european asylum system is in place, we will do the right thing by supporting an initiative calling on the commission to take the necessary action to provide the member states with this common european regulatory framework, enabling them to provide cover for the possibility, in an orderly manner, of opening the legal door that we have been demanding for years from all the non-governmental organisations, humanitarian associations, legal experts, bar associations and even churches, who are asking the european union to live up to its promise and to do something to overcome divorce, which is terrible and regrettable, between its promise, between the ambitions proclaimed in the letter of its treaties - and particularly in the area of freedom, security and justice - and what its performance has been to date. i therefore call for support tomorrow for this legislative initiative which aims to open a legal path, a legal channel, through this instrument of humanitarian visas for potential asylum seekers and people in need of humanitarian protection. that they can do it legally without losing their lives in the process.
mr president, last monday was a tragic day on the coast of andalusia, my region. the atlantic coast of cádiz (in los caños de meca, the beach where i am usually) was an open grave for nineteen immigrants, who died there. there were forty people in a dinghy, "eleven minors", who could not swim, and were not wearing life jackets. on that same monday, in melilla, 13 immigrants lost their lives. the civil guard and maritime rescue are redoubling their efforts, but it is difficult to save those who enter by the thousands through the western mediterranean. 90% of asylum seekers arrive irregularly; many of them are unaccompanied minors, pregnant women, raped, who are forced into prostitution to pay for the journey. europe needs to put a stop to the human market. europe needs a short and medium-term strategy on immigration. if there are no legal options, they're going to keep coming, they're going to be trafficked, traffickers are the ones who are going to take advantage of it. we must give them legal options, such as a well-implemented humanitarian visa, because this will ensure legal transit in the member states, control who enters europe and background checks, in case there are security problems. europe must be true to its values. solidarity and responsibility are two sides of the same coin.
member of the commission. – mr president, this is a really interesting debate. i note that we share the same objective: to provide legal pathways to persons in need of international protection. for this, we need to adopt our proposal to set up a european resettlement framework, as part of the overall reform of the common european asylum system. these legislative proposals need to be adopted as a matter of priority. let me reiterate the commission’s continued readiness to support the co-legislators with a view to achieving a reform of the common european asylum system and, in particular, the swift adoption of the union resettlement framework regulation.
the rapporteur. mr president, mr commissioner, i am very grateful for the speeches, the opinions and, in particular, for those who have expressed their support for the initiative on behalf of the respective parliamentary groups in this european parliament. but i want to add a few considerations, because first of all i have heard objections which try to dilute the evidence that while some member states have good practice and legislation in this area, others do not. and the relevant thing is that there is no european framework. there is no common european framework which can provide for the possibility of issuing humanitarian visas at consulates and embassies to allow such legal entry to those who are going to risk it anyway and lose everything in the process. hannah arendt, a memorable 20th century philosopher, was talking to us about how as important as having rights or more important is the right to be able to exercise rights. it's the right to have the right. and there is no point in having a right to asylum if, in order to exercise it on european territory - which is recognized in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, and is obviously not recognized by europeans but by the desperate people of third countries - they have to risk their lives or lose their lives in the attempt. this is an untenable situation. we have denounced it many times and, worst of all, we have heard it denounced by all the interlocutors who have been heard in this european parliament for years: non-governmental organisations, the legal profession, human rights activists. it's about time we answered. it's not true that it encourages the business of exploiting people. on the contrary, it dismantles part of the so-called business model, part of the so-called "business model" of the mafias. because it offers some people, who would otherwise throw themselves into the arms of these illicit traffickers, an opportunity to try without having to risk and to submit to the humiliation or exploitation of these illicit traffickers who brutally and without scruples violate the fundamental rights of the most vulnerable: women and children. we have missed them so many times in our speeches in the european parliament. it's about time we did something. and that is why i am particularly grateful to the voices i have heard from the group of the people, because they deny that the group of the people has no sensitivity to this matter - as i heard in the first part from the group, which worries me - and i am grateful that we are able to rise to this challenge which is dragging on for a long time by building the majority needed to tell the commission that it is time for it to incorporate this tool into the puzzle of the response, without any simplification. the fact of migration is complex, vast, global. it's there to stay, and none of the tools can stand on their own. resettlement is a valid program, endorsed by the united nations high commissioner for refugees, but it has its subjective, quantitative and country-of-origin limitations. it is also a question of accompanying resettlement with this instrument, as well as with that approach, which we wanted to be holistic, and which would include the so-called 'migration fact' in the countries of origin, transit and destination. but above all, it should allow people who feel hopeless, persecuted, with their safety, dignity and integrity threatened in an imminent way, to approach a friendly window: that of the delegations outside the european union, knowing that the european union lives up to its promise, to its commitment to the fundamental rights of the most vulnerable people. i therefore call for an effort tomorrow to bring the vote on this initiative closer, which is a call to the commission to provide the regulatory instrument we need.
the rapporteur. madam president, mr ansip, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting today on the new european regulation on electronic communications. the last one was in 2009 and since then, there have been extraordinary technological changes, changes that have affected business models, user interests, and the experiences of consumers themselves, and that have completely transformed the landscape of electronic communications. we have to start by saying that connectivity has always been the precondition, the necessary condition for the extraordinary advances that have been known to mankind, especially in the 20th century, through the hand of technology. i am sure that the situation of our economy and the development of our society would be very, very different. today we are in a similar situation, where connectivity is a necessary and urgent condition for the european union to be able to harness the potential of the most advanced digital technologies, such as the internet of things, big data, artificial intelligence, robotics, quantum computing and a long list of others. these are technologies that are breaking through, that are breaking through in an extraordinary way, at a very, very high speed and are waiting to have the connectivity they need to be able to develop fully and thus unleash their full potential of new opportunities for the economy and society. think about the development possibilities that 5g can offer us for the future - for the very near future - such as, for example, performing long-distance surgical interventions; high-risk work that can be done from a safe place; or for the farmers themselves, for the agricultural sector, which, by obtaining real-time data, can greatly improve agricultural holdings. for all these reasons, the new regulatory framework, in addition to the digital market, reinforces and places connectivity as the backbone of this regulation of the electronic communications market. it includes a series of measures to this end, measures which will attract investment, make investment more attractive, such as co-investment models, better and more harmonized management of radio spectrum, improving the duration of licences with a minimum duration of, for example, twenty years. the code also obliges all member states to release and allow the use of the known 5g bands before the end of 2020 and, in protecting consumers, establishes and improves emergency services, giving more opportunities for localization in case of disaster, in addition to introducing a very significant reduction in pan-european calls, intra-european calls, which, after the disappearance of roaming costs, is very good news also for citizens. in short, the european electronic communications code is intended to play a key role in the digitalisation of europe and does so by putting connectivity at its heart.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, europe is playing its future competitiveness on its digital agenda. with this reform, we are laying the foundations for boosting investment in high-speed networks and the deployment of 5g, which are crucial to making new services such as autonomous mobility or the new era of the internet of things possible. this means new opportunities to boost innovation, economic activity and quality employment. but thanks to parliament - i would like to congratulate pilar del castillo and the rapporteurs - we have also introduced limits on the price of calls between member states, which is good for all citizens. that is how europe advances, by breaking down barriers to communication.
vice-president of the commission – madam president, thank you to everyone who has made it possible for this package to become a reality. it will make a huge difference to people and business, to our society and economy. the european commission is pleased that the european parliament and the council share many of the same objectives that will take us towards a gigabit society. together we managed to agree on a balanced text that benefits and protects all europeans and paves the way towards very high—capacity networks, including 5g. although we have created a structure and environment for the next decade of european telecoms, our work is not yet done. in fact, it has just started. for the commission, our focus will now be to make sure that the code is properly implemented, and we will also monitor this. eu member states have two years to transpose and implement the rules. not only must they do this on time, they must also do it correctly and efficiently. we will assist member states in transposing the new rules into national law.
the rapporteur. madam president, i would like to start by thanking the other parliamentary group alternate rapporteurs: miapetra kumpula-natri, evžen tošenovský, kaja kallas, dita charanzová and julia reda for their excellent cooperation. the cooperation with the commission has been excellent and this must be emphasized. and i would also like to mention jerzy buzek, who has masterfully, masterfully, as he always does, chaired all the trilogues we have had with the council. the debate we have had today on the european electronic communications code is a great example of concrete solutions to concrete problems which can only be tackled within the framework of the european union, which we must tackle together. in this case, solutions to a connection, to a connectivity that is absolutely necessary if we want citizens and all economic sectors to have opportunities in this age of digitization. i am sure that the commission will be able to take account of this. and i insist: the european union's added value in tackling the great challenges of digitisation is essential; only together can we do it. and this regulation is a magnificent example that we can present as a great achievement to the european citizens, to the voters who, in a few months, will again take part in european elections.
madam president, commissioner, i too welcome this proposal, which is being put forward for the first time, because heavy vehicles account for 6% of emissions, they are increasing and ambitious targets for reducing emissions in the european union also need to be set. this regulation is an important complement to all that has been done on fuzzy sectors, such as the e4-share or the light vehicle standards. but to send a clear signal to industry, as you have very well said, commissioner, we need reduction targets which are both ambitious and achievable by manufacturers. we need a clear definition of what low-emission vehicles are. we need the necessary adjustments to account for emissions avoided by certain combustion of renewables and we need a system of reasonable fines. the fact is that we have reached a vote in this house without the rapporteur having succeeded in reaching agreement between the parliamentary groups. i regret this and hope that the rapporteur can reach an agreement with the council soon to have a stable and predictable legal framework before the end of the legislature.
madam president, the decarbonisation of the transport sector is key to meeting the objectives of combating climate change, and we need to act in this sector in a special way because of its difficulty in reducing emissions and its volume, which represents a quarter of the european union. the sector is also a major source of employment in europe and is undergoing a profound technological transformation. ladies and gentlemen, society is demanding that we breathe clean air without pollution, and this is particularly acute in our cities, in the large urban conglomerations. this regulation makes perfect sense in order to promote safer traffic with less polluting vehicles and more advanced technological solutions, while promoting the competitiveness of european industry.
mr president, i say what my colleague said. there are a lot of people who thought they voted in favor and they took the card off because the vote took a long time to show up on the screen. we may have lost a majority in favor of a very important law. i think it's an obvious problem. mr president, i would ask for a vote to be taken again tomorrow. i would ask for a vote tomorrow. we cannot send a message to the european citizens that we are not in favour of humanitarian visas, mr president.
mr president, as rapporteur for a legislative initiative requiring a qualified majority, there can be no doubt that the vote reflected the will of all the members present in the chamber. since there is evidence - with 25 votes missing to reach an absolute majority - that a good number of members who voted in favour had already withdrawn their cards by the time the vote count finally appeared on the screen, it seems appropriate that this house should ensure that the reflection of that count is exactly the will expressed by the members present in the chamber. i therefore ask you to put the humanitarian visa initiative back on the agenda as the first item on the vote tomorrow, thursday. (applause) i would like to thank
the next item on the agenda is the topical debate (rule 153a) on strengthening the union's resilience to external influences in the upcoming european parliament election campaign (2018/2919 ((rsp)).
mr president, madam president, the interference of external actors in electoral processes and the misuse of metadata are having serious effects on electoral procedures, as they allow both the massive collection of confidential information from the electorate and the distribution of fake news generated to attract and disinform. cambridge analytica killed the privacy of 50 million people, and according to europol's ec3, both clinton and macron's campaigns were attacked. mixing authentic manipulated elements is one strategy to maximize the negative impact of an attack. fake news websites, accounts, and social media are used to spread inaccurate news, designed to appear authentic and harm a candidate or party. in may there are elections to this house. the union must take measures to ensure that no electoral process is subject to criminal interference. public and private actors need to coordinate their actions to prevent such attacks and there is also a need for improved cooperation between agencies. the union needs to curb the misuse of data mining with the european cybersecurity package, which includes pushing for the creation of a european security agency, and must give resources and credibility to those already looking after it, such as europol's european cybercrime centre ec3. the threats to democracy, the sovereignty of states and the fundamental rights of european citizens must be stopped.
mr president, commissioner for security and justice, on 26 may 2019 this european parliament will be elected, representing democratically, directly, 500 million european citizens. and since 2014, the last european parliament election, we have witnessed a series of episodes of criminal interference in electoral processes and consultations and referendums in the member states of the european union. this european parliament, which sends missions to monitor the correctness and credibility of elections abroad, has every reason to be concerned that the fundamental right to political participation and democratic election is not interfered with by a hybrid war of intoxication, cyberterrorism, manipulation or blackmail in any way. it is therefore urgent that we join forces to shape our agenda against cybercrime and for cybersecurity as soon as possible with a european cybersecurity agency and with europol's cybercrime intelligence unit, to ensure that we are absolutely prepared so that the 2019 european parliament elections do not cast the slightest doubt on the credibility of any of the member states of the european union and we are absolutely sure that the result really reflects the will of the europeans and not the will of those who have agreed from some dark and dark workshop of manipulation or re-intoxication outside to condition the composition of this european parliament against the european union and its founding values.
in writing. the next european parliament elections will begin in the coming months and the eu must redouble its efforts to ensure that the fundamental right to political participation and democratic choice is not interfered with by a hybrid war of intoxication, cyber terrorism, manipulation and blackmail in any way. unfortunately, in recent years we have witnessed a number of incidents of criminal interference in electoral processes and consultations and referendums in the member states of the union. the high degree of convergence between the three institutions in this area therefore needs to be reflected in the swift adoption of the measures proposed by the commission, including the establishment of electoral cooperation networks at national and eu level; the launching of guidelines on the application of data protection rules in the electoral context and recommendations on increased transparency in paid online advertising and political communication; the strengthening of cybersecurity; the diligent application of existing electoral rules; and the entry into force of a legislative proposal to allow sanctions to be imposed for the misuse of personal data for electoral purposes.
in writing. the next european parliament elections will begin in the coming months and the eu must redouble its efforts to ensure that the fundamental right to political participation and democratic choice is not interfered with by a hybrid war of intoxication, cyber terrorism, manipulation and blackmail in any way. unfortunately, in recent years we have witnessed a number of incidents of criminal interference in electoral processes and consultations and referendums in the member states of the union. the high degree of convergence between the three institutions in this area therefore needs to be reflected in the swift adoption of the measures proposed by the commission, including the establishment of electoral cooperation networks at national and eu level; the launching of guidelines on the application of data protection rules in the electoral context and recommendations on increased transparency in paid online advertising and political communication; the strengthening of cybersecurity; the diligent application of existing electoral rules; and the entry into force of a legislative proposal to allow sanctions to be imposed for the misuse of personal data for electoral purposes.
in writing. the next european parliament elections will begin in the coming months and the eu must redouble its efforts to ensure that the fundamental right to political participation and democratic choice is not interfered with by a hybrid war of intoxication, cyber terrorism, manipulation and blackmail in any way. unfortunately, in recent years we have witnessed a number of incidents of criminal interference in electoral processes and consultations and referendums in the member states of the union. the high degree of convergence between the three institutions in this area therefore needs to be reflected in the swift adoption of the measures proposed by the commission, including the establishment of electoral cooperation networks at national and eu level; the launching of guidelines on the application of data protection rules in the electoral context and recommendations on increased transparency in paid online advertising and political communication; the strengthening of cybersecurity; the diligent application of existing electoral rules; and the entry into force of a legislative proposal to allow sanctions to be imposed for the misuse of personal data for electoral purposes.
in writing. the next european parliament elections will begin in the coming months and the eu must redouble its efforts to ensure that the fundamental right to political participation and democratic choice is not interfered with by a hybrid war of intoxication, cyber terrorism, manipulation and blackmail in any way. unfortunately, in recent years we have witnessed a number of incidents of criminal interference in electoral processes and consultations and referendums in the member states of the union. the high degree of convergence between the three institutions in this area therefore needs to be reflected in the swift adoption of the measures proposed by the commission, including the establishment of electoral cooperation networks at national and eu level; the implementation of guidelines on the application of data protection rules in the electoral context and recommendations on increased transparency in paid online advertising and political communication; the reinforcement of cybersecurity; the diligent application of existing electoral rules; and the entry into force of a legislative proposal to allow sanctions to be imposed for the misuse of personal data for electoral purposes.
in writing. the next european parliament elections will begin in the coming months and the eu must redouble its efforts to ensure that the fundamental right to political participation and democratic choice is not interfered with by a hybrid war of intoxication, cyber terrorism, manipulation and blackmail in any way. unfortunately, in recent years we have witnessed a number of incidents of criminal interference in electoral processes and consultations and referendums in the member states of the union. the high degree of convergence between the three institutions in this area therefore needs to be reflected in the swift adoption of the measures proposed by the commission, including the establishment of electoral cooperation networks at national and eu level; the launching of guidelines on the application of data protection rules in the electoral context and recommendations on increased transparency in paid online advertising and political communication; the strengthening of cybersecurity; the diligent application of existing electoral rules; and the entry into force of a legislative proposal to allow sanctions to be imposed for the misuse of personal data for electoral purposes.
in writing. the next european parliament elections will begin in the coming months and the eu must redouble its efforts to ensure that the fundamental right to political participation and democratic choice is not interfered with by a hybrid war of intoxication, cyber terrorism, manipulation and blackmail in any way. unfortunately, in recent years we have witnessed a number of incidents of criminal interference in electoral processes and consultations and referendums in the member states of the union. the high degree of convergence between the three institutions in this area therefore needs to be reflected in the swift adoption of the measures proposed by the commission, including the establishment of electoral cooperation networks at national and eu level; the launching of guidelines on the application of data protection rules in the electoral context and recommendations on increased transparency in paid online advertising and political communication; the strengthening of cybersecurity; the diligent application of existing electoral rules; and the entry into force of a legislative proposal to allow sanctions to be imposed for the misuse of personal data for electoral purposes.
in writing. the next european parliament elections will begin in the coming months and the eu must redouble its efforts to ensure that the fundamental right to political participation and democratic choice is not interfered with by a hybrid war of intoxication, cyber terrorism, manipulation and blackmail in any way. unfortunately, in recent years we have witnessed a number of incidents of criminal interference in electoral processes and consultations and referendums in the member states of the union. the high degree of convergence between the three institutions in this area therefore needs to be reflected in the swift adoption of the measures proposed by the commission, including the establishment of electoral cooperation networks at national and eu level; the launching of guidelines on the application of data protection rules in the electoral context and recommendations on increased transparency in paid online advertising and political communication; the strengthening of cybersecurity; the diligent application of existing electoral rules; and the entry into force of a legislative proposal to allow sanctions to be imposed for the misuse of personal data for electoral purposes.
in writing. the next european parliament elections will begin in the coming months and the eu must redouble its efforts to ensure that the fundamental right to political participation and democratic choice is not interfered with by a hybrid war of intoxication, cyber terrorism, manipulation and blackmail in any way. unfortunately, in recent years we have witnessed a number of incidents of criminal interference in electoral processes and consultations and referendums in the member states of the union. the high degree of convergence between the three institutions in this area therefore needs to be reflected in the swift adoption of the measures proposed by the commission, including the establishment of electoral cooperation networks at national and eu level; the launching of guidelines on the application of data protection rules in the electoral context and recommendations on increased transparency in paid online advertising and political communication; the strengthening of cybersecurity; the diligent application of existing electoral rules; and the entry into force of a legislative proposal to allow sanctions to be imposed for the misuse of personal data for electoral purposes.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, this report proposes significant progress in the treatment of rail passengers and we hope that it will be an important step towards improving the quality of service. the train must be the means of transport of the future. it is the most sustainable, the safest, the one that allows for greater territorial spinach and accessibility. and so we must encourage its use and make it more attractive to users. some positive aspects are that with this proposal we maximise the information available to the user, ensure that bicycle users can access the train without risk to the safety of other passengers, prioritise relocation without prejudice to compensation and reimbursement in the event of cancellation of a service and ensure an appropriate complaints protocol. but the most important thing is the leap that can be made in the accessibility of the service for vulnerable users. the report proposes that assistance at stations and access to trains be ensured by trained staff, that information be made available in accessible formats and that persons with reduced mobility be given priority in relocation, including with guide animals. however, i would stress that it is not enough to encourage the use of rail to improve passenger rights. it must be promoted as a means of public transport. it must be promoted by public institutions and not be subject to ever-increasing cuts and privatisation processes.
madam president, mrs bulc, i would like to thank you for your time. when did the spanish ave win the battle to the airplane, especially on the main lines, and also increasingly to the road? it was then that, under a socialist government, a female councillor and the head of the ave decided that passengers should be compensated for the least delay and up to 100%, apart from agreeing to give access to the next train if the previous one had been missed. these were fundamental elements of passenger rights that helped the ave to take off and today make it one of the most punctual european trains and one of the most well-received by travellers, although there is always room for improvement, that's for sure. the service for people with accessibility problems has also been strengthened and infrastructure has been built at stations. there's still a lot to do, it's true. sustainable multimodality - with bicycle access to the train - is also needed, but so are urban connections. finally, we do not agree with the attempt to reverse the situation by a misunderstood sense of the protection of the railway sector, by limiting passenger rights. on the contrary, we are in favour of further efforts to guarantee more rights for passengers.
madam president, commissioner, i would like to congratulate you on the work done on this report on railway users' rights, because it is really focused on passengers, because it extends the guarantees and also contains some of the main recommendations of the court of auditors on this matter. because it is not enough to set clear definitions. in addition, it is vital to simplify the procedures for claiming and, if possible, to automate compensation. the first objective is to clarify, to avoid ambiguities which allow companies to evade their responsibilities. it can be improved a great deal if we support amendments which make it clear once and for all what causes of force majeure can and cannot be considered to justify a delay or the cancellation of a service. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. it is committed to more sustainable mobility, always reserving space for bicycles, and the rights of people with disabilities are improved. large stations must be fully adapted. in small towns it is proposed that three hours should be sufficient to request assistance. finally - and this is crucial - in order to improve access to this catalogue of rights and guarantees, a european complaint form and a move towards an automatic compensation system are being considered. it is not reasonable, when it is clear that the passenger must be compensated, for him to ask for what is due him. you have the right to a refund as part of the service including the service you have paid for.
mr president, mr georgiou is in exile in the us for telling the truth. he communicated the correct numbers of the greek economy at that time and the greek public deficit figures. he shed the light on the biggest lies that led the greek state and the eu into one of the most severe financial crises since the end of the second world war. even the economist, two years ago, denounced the prosecution of mr georgiou as a violation of scientific freedom and human rights. last october, the financial times reported that mr georgiou received an award for statistical integrity given by the world’s leading statistical societies. lastly, the think-tank bruegel said last june: ‘the european union must defend andreas georgiou. the european union also needs to reform its statistical framework to ensure a similar scandal cannot happen again.’ what is at stake is the credibility of our european union above the credibility of the greek authorities. this is a very dangerous precedent. it is crucial that the statistical basis for our economic decision-making remains reliable and independent from political interference. what is at stake is the reliability and independence of the statistics office and authorities all across europe. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – very briefly, i am not an expert in the details of greek politics, but i do not think that mr georgiou is guilty of causing the greek crisis. a lot of things were done badly over many years, and the right way to proceed is not to prosecute civil servants who try to tell the truth. a precedent is being set for all eu member states, so this is why we need to take action.
mr president, madam president, president trump's announcement of a possible breach of the intermediate-range nuclear forces (inf) treaty is seriously undermining euro-atlantic security, which is one of the pillars of nato. the inf prohibits the manufacture of ground-launched medium-range missiles, which can reach targets between 500 and 5 500 kilometres. both trump's announcement and russia's alleged failure to comply, developing the novator 9m729 missile, represent a deterioration of the arms control regime in the euro-atlantic space that for decades has fostered peace and stability. in recent years, the union, through the different security strategies presented, as well as its leadership in the negotiations and implementation of the nuclear agreement with iran, has shown its capacity to be a leading international actor in disarmament and non-proliferation policies. tensions between the us and russia over the inf can take us back to the past, when the arms race was a constant source of international danger and tension. to quote gorbachev, "every agreement for nuclear disarmament must be maintained to save the life of the earth". the union must continue to promote non-proliferation policies and establish itself as a leading actor. if the united states and russia want to be irresponsible, the union must be able to act on the international scene to avoid a cold war, or not so cold.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr. president, do you know how many kilometers there are from the honduran border to the united states border? more than 4,000 miles. that's about the distance between lisbon and istanbul. and that's the path that these people, fleeing from misery, from despair, from fear, are willing to take. of those 9,000 people who left on october 19, more than 2,300 were children. i want to talk about the children in that caravan, because they are the most vulnerable, because they are the ones who are suffering the most, because they are suffering from dehydration and disease, because they are dying, because on the wall that separates mexico from the united states there are hundreds of white crosses painted, which are the white crosses of the children who have already died along the way. that's the real situation. that is why we want to join the appeal made by unhcr, by save the children, to ask the united states to comply with international law. children and adolescents cannot be treated as if they were criminals or drug traffickers. they are entitled to international protection under our standards, and the united states is obliged to abide by them as well. let's let the boys and girls stay boys and girls.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, today, following the vote in this parliament on the directive on humanitarian visas, i must begin by stressing that migration and its causes are a global issue that requires our utmost attention and responsibility. it is a question of the right of asylum, and it is a question of the right of asylum. the first, in our case, is that those who feel that the voting system in this parliament has not properly collected their votes should correct the data in the relevant register. it will not change the direction of the vote, but it will at least show the true will of the house and legitimize the possibility of bringing this matter back in the future. self-criticism, taking responsibility for the error and correcting it without jeopardizing the legal certainty of all our votes. and it is imperative to do. people who leave their homelands are usually fleeing poverty, insecurity and violence. in the case of the central american caravans, the problems that are causing the exodus are clear. they are the result of inequality and of an interventionist policy which has sometimes boosted the country to which these people are heading. a dynamic that has marked the sign of governments and economic and political systems. the problems of governance and democracy and their repercussions in terms of inequality and social justice are the breeding ground for some of the cities from which these caravans left to be today, as you have said, commissioner, the most violent in america. faced with these problems, there are those who buy fake news and sell simple and manic schemes, which offer too many people the peace of mind of knowing that they are among the good and that allow them to justify any atrocity against others, who easily end up being the bad guys. that the president of the united states is playing this game so cruelly, to the point that the most conservative television stations are refusing to advertise these racist caravans, is an indication of how far populism has gone. i hope you'll show us. moreover, this fallacy, this crude simplification, may put off some uncertainty to the buyer of such defective goods, but it offers no solution. there's international law to be respected. and, as the philosopher daniel innerarity said in a newspaper article, a democracy that reprograms. the complexity of the problems must be met with responsibility, limits and shared interests. i'm sorry, mr. president, but let me just finish by saying that the first of... (the president declared the common position adopted as amended) )
on behalf of the green group, mr president, the first members of the migrant caravan have recently arrived from honduras at the us border. as has been said, most are fleeing violence and the risk of being killed or starving to death. remaining in his country put his own life and that of his family at risk. for most of them, this is forced displacement. that is why we are talking here primarily about human rights. the governments of mexico and the united states should inform these people - which they do not - that they can apply for asylum or refuge. in any case, they should be guaranteed that their basic needs are met and that their rights are respected, because neither mexico nor the united states should treat the migrant caravan issue from a repressive or criminalising approach, which favours xenophobia, but from an approach based on human rights. the president-elect of mexico has the opportunity right now to begin his term with a firm commitment to human rights. and i cannot help but express a suspicion: that this huge march, which began a few weeks before the midterm elections in the united states, could have reinforced president trump's hateful xenophobic arguments. i don't blame the marchers at all, but i wonder if there may have been some petty interests to promote the timing of the march. in any case, our support for the caravan and the migrants for their dignity and for ours.
madam president, first of all i would like to express our solidarity with the caravan of men, women and children fleeing poverty, fleeing violence in honduras, guatemala and el salvador. i would also like to denounce the attempts to criminalise this caravan - when we are simply dealing with a phenomenon of forced migration - and, in a very clear way, the militarist statements and scare tactics being made by the us administration led by mr trump, and remind him that, in large part, the misery that many of the countries in his immediate neighbourhood are experiencing today has to do with their lack of commitment to cooperation, the cutting of funds and their lack of an integration policy on immigration. what can we do as the european union in the face of the current caravan? two things: first, to remind, through our external action, the member states concerned, the states in the area concerned, that they have obligations under humanitarian law and must fulfil them; and secondly, to rethink whether our policies and our relationship with the area 'with central america' really contribute to the development of these countries, which is very doubtful. and above all, mrs jourová, and with this i would like to conclude, i would like to ask you to be very attentive to the possible phenomena of trafficking in women and trafficking in children that may occur in this situation.
madam president, for the first time the world is watching the invisible. the invisible have become visible because they have organized themselves into a migrant caravan; they are visible because they have decided to make the migration transit a protest against injustice, a protest against a life of precariousness, a life of violence from which they flee, a life that is a direct consequence of our policies. would we be facing this migrant caravan if we hadn't looked the other way when the coup d'état in honduras happened? so, what do we do now? we look the other way again when these people suffer violence in transit; we look the other way when all they are offered are guns, concertinas and the militarization of the borders. we are calling for urgent humanitarian assistance. we demand that trump be stopped and we demand that the european parliament send a monitoring mission to that caravan so that human rights are respected and the right to asylum for everyone is respected. that the invisible never be invisible again: they are not numbers, they are people.
madam president, there are 7,000 people, including 2,300 children, who are roaming mexico in search of a future of hope. people who come from the northern triangle, from three central american countries that have for decades been entering an endless spiral of violence and poverty. a black hole for many, from which they try to escape. what happened? that while this was going on, there was an election campaign in the united states. and there was a president, the american, who decided to use them as hostages in his election campaign. dehumanise them, demonize them, threaten them with military force against them. with the sole purpose of winning a handful of votes in that election. so now it's gone from the american agenda as well. and what needs to be done is to remind your president, the united states, of its obligations in the field of human rights and international law. and the need to remember that their country is built on migration as an identity and as a result of it. that is america. and it seems that today they forget it in front of the world.
madam president, last week i had the opportunity to visit the guatemalan border with mexico, in the town of tecún umán, on the banks of the suchiate river. the humanitarian situation there is totally unsustainable. the migrant house houses 120 people without any national or international help. meanwhile, in one week, 6,000 migrants have passed through that area. the situation of violence and vulnerability is also dramatic throughout the journey. the border area is a zone of crime, sexual exploitation and violence. mexico's police action without going any further, which has the support of the united states right now, has already killed three people at this border crossing alone. and you may ask, what is the u.s. military doing on mexican soil? well, the same thing that european funds are doing to the libyan coastguards: externalizing borders, pushing violence against migrants away from where you can neither see nor judge what they are doing. migration is a right, madam commissioner, the free movement of people is a right, and we should start by adopting, implementing and enforcing the agreements of the global compact on migration.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union is able to meet the needs of the people of europe. 80% of care services provided in the european union are provided by informal unpaid carers, 75% of whom are women. this has a lot to do with the problem that exists at the moment, the wage gap and the pension gap. it is scandalous that in the europe of the 21st century women are receiving an average of 45% less in pensions than men. and another revealing fact also drawn from the report is how austerity policies have contributed to the deterioration of public services, so fundamental to achieving this principle of conciliation and co-responsibility. we therefore welcome the report and stress that the requests for progress in reconciling family and working life and in co-responsibility are being met. that is why we are also calling here today for an agreement by the council and for negotiations with this parliament to be possible on the parental leave directive. it is fundamental. it is indispensable. women have spent their entire lives making peace. now we need them to be our partners, to be the men who join this task. and, in addition, this report also refers to the need for the systems for the recognition of social rights and pensions to take care of carers. and that is why i emphasize here initiatives such as that of the spanish government, with its draft budgets, which include the reintegration of women who care for dependent persons into the social security systems. only through these initiatives will we be able to make progress towards a real co-responsibility for the care of dependent persons and children in the european union.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, the way europe manages its health services, the way we treat its professionals, will say a lot about what we want for the european union and its future. the care of dependent persons, the elderly and children has traditionally been a task for which women have not been paid or recognised. today, 80% of care services provided in the union are provided by unpaid carers, of whom 75% to 80% are women. the trend in europe is negative: over the last ten years, the time spent by women on care, domestic work and social activities has increased compared to men. this has serious economic and social consequences and is an obstacle to the achievement of the union's gender equality objectives. it's time to change this. it's time we embraced caring for others as a key social task that shapes the level of well-being and even the moral level of a society. it is time for care services to be recognised and regulated for what they are: a european pillar of social rights. both the european institutions and the member states must make an effort in this area: we must define them correctly, so that they include childcare and early childhood education, care for the elderly and also care for people with disabilities. we need to make them accessible and flexible to meet the needs of families with different needs and personal situations. think of single-parent families, the self-employed, shift workers in a profoundly and radically transformed world of work. let us think of a society which must evolve to meet these new challenges, because in a europe which cares, in a europe which protects, in a europe which leaves no one behind, caring must be a respected, safe, transparent, professional and adequately remunerated activity.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, in recent years the lack of sufficiently developed public care and support services for carers has meant that many women have been forced to return to caring. austerity and cuts in public services have done extraordinary damage to equality between men and women. and then, of course, this has repercussions on the pay gap and the pension gap, because many women are forced to leave their jobs to take on caring tasks. it is therefore very important to develop this essential pillar of the welfare state. i am glad that we are adopting this report today, which clearly calls for the development of public services, for clear investment in care services in the member states and for support for professionals, carers and training, and that this is a developed pillar that will allow, once and for all, for an equal society. there will be no equal society in the european union if we do not have public services capable of covering this essential pillar of the welfare state.
mr president, 75% of those engaged in care work in the european union are women. care work, historically carried out by women invisibly in the private sector, is today a source of precariousness in the labour market and yet is essential for the maintenance of life. the care cannot continue to be provided informally at the expense of women's living conditions and health. i therefore call for common sense to remove the reference to informal care. we must professionalize the sector and guarantee labour rights for three reasons: first, because it is a right, for social justice; second, because it is a need of our societies; and third, because it is not only a problem to be solved, but also an opportunity. according to the international trade union conference, in the oecd countries, investing between 2% and 6% could increase employment by up to 8% in many of them. investing in quality care with quality public services can be a great opportunity to create quality jobs and improve the lives of our societies.
in writing. in the eu, three quarters of carers are women. this shows a very unequal situation, which is the result of unjust patriarchal structures and which condemns millions of women to a much more limited access to work than men, not to mention the associated stereotypes that reinforce the idea that we must first of all stay at home and exclusively take care of care tasks. in the face of this, the eu has treaties and a whole series of directives that can be developed and improved in the field of family and work reconciliation and the recognition of rights for carers. we therefore ask the commission to support a programme and a package of concrete measures, including the extension of maternity leave, to promote real equality and reconciliation. we also want the states to get involved by providing quality public services and key infrastructure, such as day centres or day nurseries, with special emphasis on rural areas or those most affected by depopulation. finally, let us not forget to increase the allocation of resources to cohesion policy to strengthen the provision of quality public health care services.
author. mr president, i would like to remind you that cuba was the only country in the americas with which the european union had no relations, because for more than twenty years the european right, led by josé maría aznar, prevented cooperation with the island through the common position. now, under the excuse of urgency, the pp and some of its companies are again bringing up the same arguments they used to make it difficult to approve the political dialogue agreement between the european union and cuba. it's not reasonable. it is not reasonable because, in these two years of the agreement - only two years - the mechanism provided for in the agreement has been put into operation; because the effort of the high representative and mr lambrinidis has been to hold four - four - meetings of dialogue on human rights; which may seem wrong to them, but this is the first time we can have a dialogue with the island on human rights. you can also present your particular cases to the delegation of the european union in cuba, headed by one of the best european diplomats, mr alberto navarro. it's not reasonable what you're doing, nor does it have much to do with the problems that the island has. if you want to talk about urgency, i also suggest that we urgently call for the closure of guantanamo, which mr trump has said will remain open for 25 years: that does seem to be a human rights issue, doesn't it? and also to return that part of sovereignty to cuba. and finally, i believe that this urgency is not unrelated to an event which is to take place this very month, namely the visit of the president of the spanish government to the island. it has been 30 years since a spanish prime minister has visited the island. in this case, president sánchez is going to do so precisely because we now have a stable framework of relations with cuba. of course there are still a lot of problems! but that's what the human rights dialogue framework is for. that is the work that has been done from the european union through the management of mrs mogherini, mr lambrinidis and the effort that we all have to make to finally have a structured dialogue with that part of the world.
author. mr president, with this urgency we are witnessing a clumsy attempt to re-edit the common position that aznar promoted, using human rights, again, as an instrument of interference and change of government just at the moment when the agreement on political dialogue and cooperation signed between the european union and cuba is beginning to take shape. there are actors in this parliament who embrace the trump agenda and seek to derail the normalisation of relations between the european union and cuba. but try as you may, you're out of touch with reality. they speak an outdated language fueled by an allegedly salaried opposition from outside the island. look, today the cuban people, with extraordinary participation, are debating their new constitution, which will be ratified in a referendum. its content will not be decided by the european parliament or the european union. and less, the mercenaries paid by miami or another european capital. that will be decided by the cuban people in full exercise of their sovereignty and independence. (the speaker refuses to allow tomáš zdechovský to put a question to him under the 'blue card' procedure. )
author. mr president, two years ago this parliament decided to put an end to a completely irrational situation, namely that cuba was the only country in latin america with which the european union had no relations, the result of an outdated common position and which made no sense. i do not understand exactly what we are doing with this text, because i think that this parliament has shown a willingness to move forward and to normalise relations with the island. i have the feeling that we are trying to create problems for the european external action service in the implementation of this agreement, when we question whether mrs mogherini is not accountable for the outcome of the implementation of this agreement here - when she came very recently - or when we implicitly say that the european institutions in cuba do not respect the basic principles of the eu in their work, calling into question the work of one of the best diplomats the european union has, mr alberto navarro. i think that this is a very unfortunate resolution and that we should hope that this agreement will work in all its parts, including the human rights dialogue. and that is why i think this text is not appropriate.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the agreement between the european union and cuba has been in force for one year. so it seems perfectly logical to take stock now. i would also remind you that this agreement marked a very important turning point in the european union's foreign policy towards the island. unfortunately, the balance sheet for this year is not positive in the field of fundamental rights and freedoms. the harassment and intimidation of human rights defenders continue, people of the calibre of eduardo cardet continue to be detained in cuban prisons. the resolution we are voting on today details further cases of arbitrary detention and human rights violations. the proposals for official visits from this parliament continue to be rejected by the cuban authorities. unfortunately, there is no prospect of political change in cuba either. the current draft constitutional reform enshrines the one-party system and also aims to make it irreversible. the hopes for reform which were the basis of this parliament's support for the cuban agreement have been disappointed so far. the annual human rights dialogue has to produce tangible results. it is not an end in itself, as is meant here. there are many links between us europeans and the cuban people. we want the same for him as for us: respect for freedoms, pluralism and the rule of law.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded four eu-cuba dialogue agreements, and what are they for? four years after the first, the situation remains dire, despite what the sanchist left and its partners say. human rights defenders and political dissidents are arbitrarily detained and imprisoned. let us not be fooled: in cuba there is no freedom of expression and assembly. anyone who dares to think differently from the regime is persecuted and censored. there is no political pluralism as in normal democracies and the new draft constitution does not seem to fix that. on the contrary, it reinforces the power of the communist party and includes surreal provisions, such as the prohibition of future generations from deciding their own form of government. as my colleague vice-president telička says, this is not a debate between spaniards; it is about the rights of the cuban people and the values of all europeans.
author. mr president, disappearances, executions, torture, arbitrary arrests, repression of trade unions and the press. this is what is happening today in bangladesh, one of the european union's main trading partners. a country which has agreed with myanmar/burma to start the forced return of the rohingya and which has sent the army into the refugee camps to further intimidate the population. a country that doesn't want to renew the agreement on fire prevention and safety that it signed after the rana plaza fire and crime. how quickly we forget tragedies! we reject the forced repatriation agreement and demand that bangladesh accept the extension of the agreement on fire prevention and security. we again call on the commission to launch an investigation into the breach of international conventions and to propose binding legislation on due diligence obligations for the supply chains of the clothing sector. we can't keep looking the other way. we must have clear demands.
mr. president, the first time i heard about bangladesh, i was a child. george harrison's legendary concert for bangladesh brought news to those of us who knew nothing about a country where there was bloodshed, war, natural disasters and floods. and more than 40 years later, the situation is not much better. we heard about bangladesh in relation to enforced disappearances, torture, police abuse, discrimination against the lgbtq community, exploitation of child labor and child marriage; and the rana plaza tragedy in 2013, which prompted a cross-cutting agreement on building security, which must be fulfilled in all its terms. for defending him shahidul alam is in custody. and it is imperative that the european union, which is bangladesh's main trading partner, should use all its diplomatic power not only to secure liberation but to restore the agreement in all its terms, and that the european union should ensure that its diplomacy and its development cooperation are influential in protecting the fundamental rights of the most vulnerable in a country which continues to give bad news because of its catastrophes and disasters.
the rapporteur. why is a text which was adopted by the committee by 30 votes to 7, with a mandate of 32 votes to 15 - less than half - the object of all the battles to revoke the mandate, against all parliamentary logic and tradition? there is an explanation: it is obviously not to improve the text, which will be done and to a large extent in the tripartite negotiations, which are plentiful and already planned. what is happening is that there are powerful forces, powerful lobbies, totally legitimate, of course, who would much rather that there be no directive on this subject in this legislature. they know that one way of getting a 'no directive' is to delay the processes, because with a little delay it becomes practically impossible to finish our work in this mandate. this is what's at stake, to have or not to have a directive. there are, of course, different visions of europe at stake. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we cannot go out in the streets and say that europe has failed to take account of the citizen in the face of the rapid changes in the market and in technology. if we do not vote for the mandate today, we will not be able to start tripartite negotiations on 21 november. and if we do not start on 21 november, we will have to think about leaving it for another term, and i can only imagine what will happen. so i ask those who believe that we can certainly improve the text in the tripartite negotiations, but that it is essential to get a directive now that is acceptable for the good of the citizens, those who believe in a people's europe, to vote more and confirm my mandate, to make a good directive possible, but above all to make the directive exist. with all due respect, gentlemen, you are voting with your soul and your conscience, but you are also thinking of european citizenship.
mr president, this parliament is committed to working for equality in schools and in education, and that is why i would like to ask for solidarity for people like the navarre government's education minister, maría solana. what was his crime? introducing a pioneering programme to educate in equality values, skolae, in schools, a programme that has been applauded by practitioners across europe. the consequence: he has been escorted since june to protect himself from threats. they're harassing the technicians who manage this project; their department has just been raided and raided. that's why i'm filing this complaint. because it is urgent, i ask you to take an interest in the case and, above all, i ask this house today for solidarity with this government, this councillor and all her technicians.
mr. president, i was asking for clarification. the debate on the situation of women with disabilities was on the agenda for tomorrow, which is very timely because on 3 december we are celebrating the international day of persons with disabilities and we have just celebrated the international day against gender-based violence. it is to certify that this debate has not been removed and is held tomorrow, because the sector is waiting for it to make them visible and to make their voices heard.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. all of them have said very important things about the future of europe, but if we were to establish a common denominator, a common value of what they have said is that we face challenges so great that we can only face them together. if there was one sentence that could sum it up well, it would be something like "we must do better what we can only do together". the european parliament has been calling for two fundamental problems to be overcome for the future of europe. the first is that more needs to be added to the financial framework for the next seven years. is your country prepared to make more financial contributions to a europe which has to face all these challenges i was talking about? and the second problem is unanimity. is your country willing and in favour of going beyond unanimity to establish absolute majorities that will make it possible to be more agile, more flexible, more effective in facing the challenges of the future of the union?
madam president, commissioners, i would like to begin by thanking commissioners arias cañete and šefčovič for the commission's rapid response to the fight against climate change following the publication of the alarming un report. today, on the eve of the katowice climate summit, the european union must renew its leadership and commitment in the fight against climate change, and i wish you equal success in that regard. we must move faster and faster. to do this, together with the necessary investments, we must equip ourselves with the instruments to support a process of decarbonisation and de-fossilisation which will make it possible to combine our commitments at international level with the maintenance of a competitive european industry, capable of creating new jobs which will enable the social transition, which will also enable those who are being left behind to recover. by 2020, member states and the main co2 emitters must participate and provide the commission with all the information available so that, together with this parliament, they can decide on the best strategy to achieve such a high objective, which, in my view, involves a determined commitment to renewable energy; technological neutrality; close collaboration, therefore, with the main actors in industry, innovation, research; improvement in energy efficiency; and further implementation of the circular economy at all stages of the production process. and to do that, the commission must also understand that it is urgent to update the ecodesign directive.
madam president, commissioners, the commission has taken a good step forward by proposing climate neutrality by 2050. however, i see in this proposal the same dance of dates and figures as when you, commissioner arias cañete, have to answer about when your family's offshore accounts were closed. and yet, i also wonder: is this objective credible coming from you and what you have been doing so far? how are we going to believe them when they're proposing to delay most efforts beyond 2030, when the key is what we do in this decade? in football, you know, it's called the "patapum palante": delaying the urgent. how can we believe them when we have just adopted totally inadequate renewable energy and energy efficiency targets which are either wet paper or need to be revised upwards, as our group has already called for? how can we believe that if they intend to continue to maintain and give priority to fossil gas in the european union's strategy? climate change, commissioners, is already affecting millions of people, including many europeans, so please be consistent.
madam president, commissioners, thank you for your proposals, but i am afraid that none of the scenarios proposed by the commission are really compatible with limiting global warming to 1.5 degrees in time, and that cannot be, because under those scenarios southern spain could become a desert and the next climate refugees could be the andalusians. i'm not saying that. the un climate experts are saying that. and i say, since we are going to decarbonise the economy, why not do it right now, that is, faster and with more ambition, to meet the paris agreement as we are asking in the european parliament. this would mean thousands of jobs and a much more prosperous economy, in addition to great health benefits. with just a few days to go until cop24, we are missing out on the opportunity to lead the global climate ambition. if donald trump doesn't believe in climate change, and the eu doesn't lead by example, tell me who else is going to do it.
in writing. the s&d group supports a net zero-carbon economy by 2050, but calls for action for a just transition. in this sense, the spanish social democrats in the european parliament welcome the european commission's proposal to end greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, but keeping in mind that we must ensure that the transition to a net zero-carbon economy benefits all citizens and does not create new inequalities. the strategy should help to close the growing gap between rich and poor and strengthen social cohesion between citizens and between regions. social democrats have led the legislative work in the european parliament to achieve ambitious legislation on renewable energy and energy efficiency. however, a global vision is needed to ensure a sustainable society and to lead an ecological transformation that goes hand in hand with a reform of economic governance and social policies to ensure that this is a just transition for all. finally, we are aware that in order to achieve the long-term objectives, the ambition of the 2030 interim targets must be improved.
in writing. the s&d group supports a net zero-carbon economy by 2050, but calls for action for a just transition. in this sense, the spanish social democrats in the european parliament welcome the european commission's proposal to end greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, but keeping in mind that we must ensure that the transition to a net zero-carbon economy benefits all citizens and does not create new inequalities. the strategy should help to close the growing gap between rich and poor and strengthen social cohesion between citizens and between regions. social democrats have led the legislative work in the european parliament to achieve ambitious legislation on renewable energy and energy efficiency. however, a global vision is needed to ensure a sustainable society and to lead an ecological transformation that goes hand in hand with a reform of economic governance and social policies to ensure that this is a just transition for all. finally, we are aware that in order to achieve the long-term objectives, the ambition of the 2030 interim targets must be improved.
in writing. the s&d group supports a net zero-carbon economy by 2050, but calls for action for a just transition. in this sense, the spanish social democrats in the european parliament welcome the european commission's proposal to end greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, but keeping in mind that we must ensure that the transition to a net zero-carbon economy benefits all citizens and does not create new inequalities. the strategy should help to close the growing gap between rich and poor and strengthen social cohesion between citizens and between regions. social democrats have led the legislative work in the european parliament to achieve ambitious legislation on renewable energy and energy efficiency. however, a global vision is needed to ensure a sustainable society and to lead an ecological transformation that goes hand in hand with a reform of economic governance and social policies to ensure that this is a just transition for all. finally, we are aware that in order to achieve the long-term objectives, the ambition of the 2030 interim targets must be improved.
in writing. social democrats support a net zero-carbon economy by 2050 and call for action for a just transition. in this sense, the spanish social democrats in the european parliament welcome the european commission's proposal to end greenhouse gas emissions by 2050, but keeping in mind that we must ensure that the transition to a net zero-carbon economy benefits all citizens and does not create new inequalities. the strategy should help to close the growing gap between rich and poor and strengthen social cohesion between citizens and between regions. social democrats have led the legislative work in the european parliament to achieve ambitious legislation on renewable energy and energy efficiency. however, a global vision is needed to ensure a sustainable society and to lead an ecological transformation that goes hand in hand with a reform of economic governance and social policies to ensure a just transition for all. finally, we are aware that in order to achieve the long-term objectives, the ambition of the 2030 interim targets must be improved.
mr. president, thank you very much, commissioner. the single market is without doubt one of the european union's greatest achievements. but i very much agree with what has just been said by those who have used the word before me, to point out the difficulty of not having a genuine customs union, because that implies that there is no genuine single market. a customs union is one thing, a customs union requires a uniform approach to inspections, to sanctions, to controls, and i would like the commissioner to listen to me because i would like her to be able to answer my questions. i would like to ask you, as commissioner, how do you coordinate with the commissioner responsible for finance to put an end to this problem? we cannot continue to defend the single market without a genuine customs union which guarantees fair competition for our producers against unfair competition from products arriving at other ports which do not comply with the rules. unfortunately, i see you haven't listened to me.
in writing. at the request of the council, the commission is preparing this communication, which stresses that no more time can be wasted on legislation in the single market. it is 25 years since the creation of the european union, but today their freedoms are under threat. we must abandon the traditional narrative and be more ambitious if we are to achieve a fully harmonised and efficient internal market, which is truly fair, transparent and equitable. we also need to be much more ambitious in integrating the digital economy, which is growing at five times the rate of the 'analogue' economy. parliament has supported the commission in its initiatives, but unfortunately some of them are being blocked by some member states in the council. we must also give priority to taxation. the taxation of all companies, regardless of the member state in which they are based, must be the same if they are to be truly competitive in the single market. if one company pays less tax than another but competes in the same market, it is competing 'unfairly'. to make progress in the harmonization and cohesion of our single market, we must also make joint progress on taxation.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, the committee on international trade has expressed almost unanimous support for the report which you have drawn up and which will be voted on tomorrow in the plenary. and by the way, i congratulate both sides because i think we have raised a loud, clear, strong and firm voice on behalf of 500 million citizens in defence of multilateralism, in defence of an international order based on dialogue, based on democracy, based on mutual respect that some seem to have forgotten or perhaps never had. but these are the bases for moving forward, and to move forward it is essential - as you said, commissioner - to modernise the wto to meet the challenges we have to face and to provide solutions, such as digital trade, the objectives of sustainable development, and the standardisation of labour rights. but we also need - let us not forget - to resolve the outstanding problems of the doha round and to make the world trade organisation stronger, because that is the best guarantee of being able to resolve them and stand up to those who defend protectionism. and of course we must show our full support tomorrow for the efforts being made by the commission to defend this reform, seeking an alliance with the partners who show solidarity. i think that is the best message we can give to the citizens: together for a better future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. the european union, with 6% of the world's population, is the largest exporter of goods, the largest exporter of services, one of the largest importers and at the same time the largest emitter and receiver of foreign direct investment. on this basis, commissioner, it is clear that the european union must lead the efforts to reform the world trade organisation on the basis of the june council conclusions and adapt it, of course, to the new economic circumstances. a model based on principles, based on values, based on rules that is predictable and, above all, that is effective for our companies. we therefore support the commission's efforts to reform this system, its contacts with all the international organizations and, of course, its dynamic of preferential trade agreements. you know very well, commissioner, what my clear tendency is in a very particular agreement, and i hope that at this g20 meeting in buenos aires we can make substantial progress and complete the work you have been doing.
mr president, i regret that five eu member states still don’t recognise kosovo as an independent state and i welcome the fact that the report from my colleague, igor šoltes, invites them to do so. one of the states that still denies this recognition is spain. the controversial foreign affairs minister, josep borrell, recently reiterated that his government wouldn’t change this position. this is the same minister who, in 2008, in a not very visionary and even less rigorous way, stated that the secession of kosovo was illegal from the point of view of international law. this opinion was clearly discredited by the international court of justice which, in its 2010 opinion, established that general international law does not provide for prohibitions on declarations of independence, and therefore the declaration of kosovo didn’t violate international law. for the sake of reconciliation in the balkans and for the sake of european integration, spain should recognise the states that are born of democratic decisions by their national parliaments.
author. mr president, we speak today on behalf of the more than 46 million women with disabilities, who represent 16.6% of the total population of the european union. today, with this debate, we're going to make them more visible. we're going to be your speaker. today we're going to create an image that really favors that they can exercise their rights. they are, first and foremost, human beings. they are citizens who cannot be defined by their disability and, in fact, do not want to be. they face the same problems every day as other women: they are mothers, daughters, friends, workers; they have a multitude of talents and a multitude of skills and they enrich our society by making it more diverse. it is crucial that the contribution they can make, and that is why we must promote it and ensure that the plans these women have are heard. today, with this debate, we are going to create a positive awareness of diversity and we are going to make the culture of difference prevail, because it is the one that generates the most social advantages. these women face the challenge every day that we make them invisible. women who are blind, deaf, who live in a different way, who have no mobility; in short, women with disabilities are women who are excluded by society. it is often a question of mental barriers: it makes them invisible, and so there is a lot of discrimination in all sectors in all countries. we will talk about education - inclusive education, which means that we all participate freely in society and we all contribute and contribute to it. when discrimination is made in education, the diverse student is made guilty of this exclusion; that cannot happen. inclusive and accessible work and education are the tools to link us to society and to participate in all sectors; only 18.8% of women with disabilities are employed in the european union, a lower percentage than their male counterparts or, undoubtedly, the rest of the non-disabled. we also need to talk about digital literacy, because a significant group of these women are over 60 and so we must develop a strategy for older and disabled women. we will also discuss the need for the full participation of women with disabilities in all matters; they cannot be left out of anything; and, of course, to guarantee the active and passive suffrage of these women. a legislative amendment has recently been made in spain to this effect. we will talk about equal treatment: the need for everyone to be equal - one of the values of the european union. for this to happen, active and public policies must be created to break down all the barriers to equality and, above all, to provide these women with truthful, simple and effective information so that they can develop their rights. accessibility is the prerequisite for participation and equality. it is true that on 8 november we were informed that the council and the commission had agreed to the european accessibility act, which is more than we had and less than we asked for, but which is a step forward in working towards a europe without barriers. accessibility means that everything is done in all languages, in all forms, in all formats. you think, for example, in gynaecological check-ups, women with disabilities have accessibility problems to go for a mammogram or a gynaecological check-up. there is difficulty in accessing many health services, many services against gender violence, support services, maternity services, protection, communication. we must break down those barriers. the social pillar is an opportunity to be able to include women with disabilities and make them protagonists too. and we'll also talk about dignity. we must break the silence about the harassment suffered by these women: one in three women with disabilities has been or will be abused and victims of gender-based violence. that is why we need a strategy of support and respect in this regard. and we will also talk about other forms of discrimination, such as forced sterilization, forced abortion or exclusion from the right to adoption or maternity. it is also full-blown discrimination and inhuman treatment. and we will also talk about the need to have indicators to know what the situation of these women is; gender indicators; disability indicators in the european disability strategy itself and in all departments. and i'll end by telling you that goal 5 of the sustainable development goals was about empowering women. empowering women with disabilities is empowering humanity. today we have an opportunity to learn, to feel, to live and to create. being a woman says a disabled and good friend i love it; i have a disability and i have many abilities like anyone else, but above all i am a human being, with all the rights that i deserve; i hope i never have to justify why again.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, the life programme is one of the most emblematic programmes of the european union and the only one which exclusively finances actions in the field of the environment. that is why it is always a priority for this parliament. my colleague, mr dantin, the epp group spokesman on this report, cannot be here today and i, on his behalf, will mention the priorities for our political group. firstly, the protection of biodiversity and protected areas. in addition, in response to the challenges in various european regions in relation to the proper management of large carnivores, our group has tabled an additional amendment for this programme to finance this project. secondly, support for farmers to adopt increasingly sustainable farming practices. thirdly, support for the outermost regions in the life programme: given the high value of biodiversity in these regions, the programme should explicitly include them. and finally, the simplification of administration. this issue has been raised repeatedly by all the beneficiaries of the life programme. both the rapporteur, mr gerbrandy, and mr dantin have done a great job in a very short period of time, and it is only right that we should congratulate them. for my part, i would like to stress the importance of the programme increasing its financial allocation and continuing to support the protection of the natura 2000 network, and in particular of priority natural ecosystems, species and habitats, over the period 2021-2027.
mr president, commissioner, the life programme is one of the fundamental pillars for protecting our natural environment and for making progress in adapting to climate change. a climate change, against which this week from cp.24 in katowice we must conjur and lead the necessary changes to keep the temperature rise below one and a half degrees. with the new life we must improve this good tool we already have; facilitate access to these funds at all levels of governance, from local authorities, which are the first window of access for citizens, to the member states themselves, and with special attention to environments that are potentially most affected by climate change, such as the mediterranean islands; and finally simplify their access, as mrs schrijer-pierik said. in my constituency, the life programme is playing a vital role in the preservation of the ebro delta, as one of the programmes financed through these funds is geared to the study of sediment transfer in the final stretch of the river. in the last century, the contribution of sludge to the delta has been greatly reduced by the construction of dams along the river, with the consequence, on the one hand, of its sinking, and on the other, the entry of sea water, which directly affects the balance of this unique ecosystem that is a biosphere reserve. i wanted to mention this example as the contribution of the life programme to the real improvement of our planet.
madam president, thank you very much to the rapporteur for this work. at present 53% of annual deaths from work are due to exposure to carcinogens or mutagens. this second phase of the directive takes a step forward by assigning exposure limit values to eight new carcinogens. however, implementation is one of the biggest challenges. more controls, monitoring and dissuasive sanctions are needed to ensure the application of this and all other safety and health rules. in this connection i would like to recall the biggest mercury poisoning accident in europe, which affected 49 workers at the asturias zinc factory of the multinational glencore. this november they went on hunger strike, six years later, with severe and degenerative consequences for their physical and mental health and still waiting for the company to take care of the health care they need and for the administrations to recognize their incapacity. this, ladies and gentlemen, is happening in europe.
member of the commission. – mr president, thank you very much indeed for the opportunity to speak on this important proposal. whenever we talk about our health and that of our children, people are absolutely right to ask for the highest standards of transparency and scrutiny. in recent years, european citizens have expressed such a clear demand for more transparency in the way that risk assessments are conducted, and i have been listening carefully to them and have been active on this issue since the beginning of my term of office. some of you in this house have expressed the same legitimate demand. in fact, when the european parliament voted its resolution on glyphosate one year ago, it stressed the following: that the european union’s authorisation procedure, including the scientific evaluation of substances, should be based only on published studies. the european citizens’ initiative in relation to glyphosate also asked the commission to base its decision on published studies, and the findings of the recent ‘fitness check’ on the general food law regulation confirmed this priority. today’s debate is a significant stepping stone on the way to meeting these expectations and to showing that the eu can deliver on our demands, on your demands and on citizens’ demands. allow me to draw your attention to the main features of the commission’s ambitious proposal. i would like to explain briefly how we have pursued the objectives of reinforcing transparency and trust. i believe it is through greater transparency that we will increase citizens’ confidence in the risk assessment system. the new legislation will thus contribute to increasing the legitimacy of the european food safety authority (efsa) and of the commission’s decisions when it accepts or rejects requests for approval. with this goal in mind, the commission has proposed proactive public disclosure of all safety—related data – let me repeat, safety—related data – supporting applications for authorisation, and we have proposed that this be done early in the risk assessment process. early disclosure is essential to ensure maximum transparency and public scrutiny in an effective way, while maintaining a timely and effective risk management process. of course, transparency can also help us to avoid potential bias in science. it is crucial to restore trust in the eu’s evidence—based food safety system and trust in science. let me insist on one important point. postponing transparency until the opinion is published would, as we know from practice today, risk feeding suspicion and controversies. it would not permit a real scientific debate between different views, but would lead to more political controversies – and we have had too many of those recently. as long as the principle of early disclosure is retained, however, its exact timing could be the subject of further consideration. for example, it could coincide with the moment the underlying application is found admissible. this disclosure of studies is also closely linked with two other measures in our proposal: first, the public consultation of submitted studies; and, second, the disclosure of the relevant information in the union register of commissioned studies. these measures will ensure that efsa has at its disposal the broadest relevant scientific evidence possible before it drafts its scientific opinion. and, of course, any rights stemming from the access to documents regulation and the aarhus convention remain intact and will continue to apply. at the same time, i am aware of concerns in relation to the protection of innovation, but i want to reassure you that, when we prepared this proposal, we also had in mind the need to maintain the european union’s high food safety standards together with the competitiveness of the eu food and feed sector. there is no controversy as between food safety standards and competitiveness, and that is why the proposal sets out safeguards for the protection of justifiable, confidential information. it includes a closed positive list of items that may be claimed as confidential. confidentiality can be claimed if the applicant can prove that public disclosure of such information would significantly harm its competitive position. at the same time, the proposal respects existing intellectual property rights, data exclusivity rights and rules on the protection of personal data. these are recognised as key to stimulating innovation, and for the worldwide recognition of eu product safety. furthermore, to assist applicants – most importantly, small and medium-sized enterprises – we have introduced the possibility of efsa providing pre—submission advice. this advice will facilitate a better understanding of the application process and will make life easier for innovators in europe. finally, the proposal also provides for the possibility of commissioning additional studies for verification purposes. this may be done in exceptional circumstances, for example in the event of public controversy or scientific divergence about a product. further to the provisions on transparency, and to ensure the long—term sustainability of efsa’s high level of independent expertise, it is proposed that member states will be represented on the efsa management board. similarly, and without jeopardising efsa’s independence, there is provision for more active involvement by member states in ensuring the presence of experts on efsa’s scientific panels. it has also been recognised that there is a need to improve on our communication of risk. it is important that strong, clear messaging on risks is available to our citizens. to this end, the proposal lays the foundations for a comprehensive and effective risk-communication strategy to ensure that, whether the message comes from the commission, efsa or member states, it will be clear, comprehensive and consistent. the european parliament, the council and the commission are all responsible for maintaining and reinforcing an eu food safety system based on scientific assessments. transparency and risk assessment are therefore a shared duty for all of us. with this proposal, we are, more than ever, playing our part. i would like to thank all those involved, including the rapporteur, ms sommer, and the shadow rapporteur as well as the rapporteurs for opinion, for their active commitment so far – and, i hope, for their continued engagement and dedication in advancing with the commission proposal and defending transparency. who can be against transparency in science? no one. i look forward to a positive outcome in the plenary vote and to the start of the trilogue discussion as soon as the house is ready.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, commissioner, i would like to start by congratulating mrs sommer on this report and, of course, supporting all her proposals. i understand the aim of the proposal to strengthen transparency in the risk assessment process, but i want to stress as the contact person for the agency that efsa is independent and scientifically sound and that it adheres to the current regulation. however, i sincerely believe that there has been a lack of political ambition to reform the regulation in depth and to update the tasks of efsa which, after almost twenty years, is overburdened with tasks that are far removed from what is strictly food safety. as regards transparency, efsa should be homologated to other union agencies such as ema and echa, i.e. information on applications and baseline studies should be published at the time of the publication of its scientific opinion. i agree that we must strengthen the agency's transparency, but without ideological overtones and without this conditioning the applicants' capacity for innovation. finally, this regulation in force established the rapid alert system, but despite being revised in 2011, we still do not have a harmonised procedure for action by all member states and we have not strengthened the commission's powers in managing alerts. it is not enough to have a simple support manual, as we have today, and this is an opportunity to solve this and to avoid a repeat of the social alarms we have had in the past.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the work they have put before us today in the house. european citizens expressed concern about the transparency of the evaluations that efsa has been carrying out - and did so through a european citizens' initiative - following the reports used for the evaluation of glyphosate. i should like to begin by saying that i was pleased with the reaction of the european commission, which has just made a proposal to amend the legislation to ensure the much-needed greater transparency. i believe that the proposal which has come from the committee on the environment responds precisely to these consumer needs with a firm commitment to the protection of human health and the environment. risk management, assessment and communication must be guided by the precautionary principle and must be carried out through a clearly transparent, objective and independent process. that is why i would like to ask the house today to adopt this very proposal from the envi committee tomorrow and to continue with this ambition, so that there is no setback. i would like to say that the amendments which refer to the need to go backwards and to the publication of the studies to be taken into account at the end of the report are a step backwards. to ensure public participation they should be available at the outset. and confidentiality should be reserved for strictly commercial matters. we must send a clear message to the public and regain their trust. the ultimate objective is human health and the environment, and that is what i am calling for.
mr president, commissioner jourová, dear sergei stanishev, i came to this european parliament in 2009 and, as chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and former spanish minister of justice, i took very seriously the reading of the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force that very year, and of the area of freedom, security and justice, whose first promise - article 67 - is the free movement of persons within an integrated management of the union's external borders. and since 2009, exactly nine years ago, this european parliament has been calling for the full incorporation of bulgaria and romania into this area of free movement of persons because they have done their duty since then. we have therefore consistently called for the council's decision to adopt a single legal act recognising the total abolition of land, sea and air borders with bulgaria and romania to be a reality, because unless it is, the european union will continue to fail to deliver on its promise. where the european union contributes most to the area of freedom, security and justice, the european union still has a score to settle with bulgaria, romania and the bulgarians and romanians.
the rapporteur. mr president, i am very grateful to the commissioner for honouring us with her presence at this evening session. she was a key figure in the successful introduction of this new law which will govern the european agencies, including the one for which i was rapporteur. now, madam president, allow me to speak to cervantes in this plenary session of the european parliament. it was not all rosy and we had to face some difficulties, which explains why it took a year and a half to negotiate and why we had to devote so much time to it. well, it was worth it, because if we take into account that eurofound's fundamental mandate dates from 1975 - if i remember correctly - we have been doing a job which we hope will last at least twenty, thirty or forty years, as the previous one. you had to take it seriously. some feathers we had to leave from the parliament or from this ponencia. the most painful, perhaps, has been the inability to rationalize, not so much economically as administratively and logically, the executive committee, which ended up having "just" ninety people, that is, more than twice as many as the entire international labour organization. this is not only sad - the only sad thing - because it is a bit ridiculous that there are, for an agency of one hundred and five workers, some ninety representatives on the executive committee, but because it reveals the mania towards the renacionalization that we are experiencing at this european moment. we could have reduced the executive committee, seeing that it was a european agency and that we did not need to be in all the member states all the time. and therefore, respecting the tripartite, we could have done it. he couldn't do it. but if they have done many good things, it is time to congratulate my two compañeros, who have already praised me with their words, the señora sander y el señor hoc. it is time to thank the commission and the bulgarian and austrian presidencies for all the efforts they have made to ensure that this important new agency has continuity, that it was already functioning well and that it is still more productive and operational for the future. it's very important this agency las demás también, solo que hablo de la mía. why? because this agency is the one that feeds us with reason, knowledge, and the empirical basis that makes it possible to maintain a characteristic of the european legislative aspect: it is not based on feelings, it is not based on visceralities, it is based on reason and the exact knowledge of the problems, a good way to combat fake news. the agency has the obligation, first, to provide information to the european institutions and, second, to help the member states, the social partners and even international institutions to know the most accurate possible truth about the problem we are going to tackle, so that they can legislate on it. it is an essential element of the way in which all the actors involved operate in europe. it had to be renewed, since some things had evidently become obsolete; other things were adapted to the pre-technological era, from employment contracts to many other aspects. but by renovating it we have also added what i believe will allow it to perform its function even better and more quickly. for example, a major professionalization with the reinforcement - as has been said here - of the executive director, his capacity to appoint a deputy director, something that we were asked by the social partners to respect the creative spirit of eurofound, but professionalizing the relationship between them and professionalizing everything that is the performance. we have also reinforced - and this is very important - the presence of the parliament through a link which will be present, without vote, in the executive committee and also through more information on its development. of course, we have tackled a thousand technical details to make everything more operational, to make it more economically efficient and, of course, i think that europe can be satisfied with having a single instrument to make its laws better. i only ask one thing of this parliament in particular: let us use it much more. long before other agencies were thought of as a european agency, europe now has an excellent instrument for, at least we hope, the next twenty years.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate the parliament's negotiating team on the work they have done during the trilogues on this three-part report, noting the many hours and meetings that have been necessary to finally arrive at the desirable result. in the light of this, and as i have argued from the outset, i reiterate that these three european union agencies - eu-osha, eurofound and cedefop - are necessary. they are necessary to know with data the reality of what is happening in the not so small world of work; they are necessary to make effective policies, to find the points to be improved and the problems to be solved and they are necessary because, moreover, they are the example of the importance of social dialogue and how to articulate in a tripartite way. because of this importance, we cannot forget that, in order to carry out their work efficiently, these agencies must be provided with sufficient financial and human resources and stability, without any doubt, in such changing contexts. in the case of eu-osha, i would like to recall first that, since the beginning of the crisis, we have seen a gradual increase in accidents at work. the main reasons are cuts in public policies and lack of investment in many companies, which have sidelined the work they have to do in this area. the reductions in prevention programmes are particularly marked in this area. and on the other hand, there are also the reforms of labour regulations, such as that which took place in spain, which weaken collective bargaining and the possibility of creating new plans and preventive measures to improve health and safety at work. the attack on working conditions, the normalisation of temporary work, subcontracting, deregulation and so on are not exactly what we want to promote. eu-osha itself points out that investment of one euro in occupational safety and health has a return of 2.2 euros in benefits. but this is not the most important thing, because there is no economic interest over the health and safety of workers. and this cannot be measured in terms of cost and benefit. agencies are a necessity; let's bet on them.
madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur. i would like to stress the importance of cultural heritage, which contributes to the strengthening of european identity. such cultural heritage shows that our ancestors have been united across national divisions and borders. romanesque, gothic, renaissance and baroque are not national styles, but rather major european artistic trends - some would even say philosophical. i am thinking also of the current european cultural routes and the first of them, the camino de santiago, as a testimony to this european unity and identity. in caring for europe's cultural heritage, in preserving it, we also care for the idea of europe, we also care for the process of european construction, as you well know, commissioner. we must all contribute to the care and conservation of our cultural heritage, including the european union. i shall therefore read the action plan recently presented by the commission with the greatest possible attention. i would certainly like an ambitious plan; i would even like a specific european programme or fund to help finance the task of recovering, reconstructing and conserving europe's cultural heritage and thus make visible the special importance that this heritage also has for the institutions of the union.
madam president, on 2 december last there were elections in andalusia, a region of southern spain with eight and a half million inhabitants, in which the news was no longer that the extreme right was entering parliament in a strong way; the news today is that the europeanist, democratic and constitutionalist parties intend or are ready to join the extreme right in order to achieve government. and that is that in democracy we can clearly say that not everything is good. that is what mr verhofstadt said to his counterpart, but we have not yet heard mr weber say the same thing. on 26 may we will be holding elections to the european parliament and it is not enough to say that the wolf is coming, we must fight it. and the wolf, as i say, is here. and the pro-european groups, which declare themselves pro-european, must reaffirm the rules of the game, and the rules are the defence of tolerance, fundamental rights, freedom, equality and this europe which the far right wants to destroy. this parliament must therefore take a decision now, and especially in view of the forthcoming elections in may.
madam president, the murder in chile of the mapuche communero camilo catrillanca demonstrates the failure of repression as a way of solving the conflict in the region; a conflict in which land is key. the militarization and violence follow a model of dispossession of mapuche territories in favour of forestry, mining and hydroelectric power. the carabineros protect the businessmen and attack the communities that oppose the occupation of their land. camilo, before his death, had already been watched by the police for his defense of the mapuche cultural identity. their community is the most active in the defense of the territory. we demand that these facts be clarified and those responsible brought to justice. if the state does not respond to the historical demands of the mapuche people for reparation and recognition, there will be no peace, civil coexistence and progress in the region. we have all the support from here, from the european parliament, and our solidarity with the mapuche people.
madam president, as we celebrate the anniversary of human rights today, the mediterranean is running out of lifeboats. how we have to thank aquarius because human rights were not just paper. human rights is rescuing the most vulnerable. human rights is to combat the advance of neo-fascism in the world and in europe. the universal declaration of human rights enshrines common values and principles and neo-fascism is contrary to them, because fascist ideology and intolerance attack democracy itself. i am glad that on 25 october we gave a sign of courage in this parliament. the european parliament voted against the impunity enjoyed by neo-fascist and neo-nazi groups in europe, but we are on our guard, on our guard against the fascism of the streets, the digital one of fake news and the institutional one, such as vox in spain, the one of the francisco franco foundation. since that day, 25 october, we have had new reports of fascist attacks in europe, including one in my own country.
madam president, today was international human rights day. do you know what this is? this is a compilation of stories that oriol junqueras, former deputy in this house, has written to his children. he had to write them from prison, where he has been imprisoned for 403 days, in pre-trial detention, for having organized a referendum so that we could vote. oriol has seen his children lluc and joana in a year 36 hours, or what is the same, lluc and joana have seen their father who is a person who has always been committed to democracy, to justice and to dignity just one and a half days. are we talking about human rights today, which is international human rights day? are we talking about the nine catalan political prisoners, four of them on hunger strike? the complicit silence of the european union institutions with regard to what is happening in catalonia is a sign of weakness and hypocrisy. we are not looking the other way. we are the true europeans who defend fundamental rights everywhere and at all times. today too, and in the european union too.
madam president, yesterday we celebrated the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights. seven decades of broken promises and human rights violations around the world. seven decades later we are faced with a european union where the extreme right is growing and xenophobic rhetoric is advancing, while the most basic social rights are being violated. this is the result of the austerity policies we suffer from, which have normalized cuts while infecting us with fear and hatred of the different. today we live in a world that is richer, but above all it is more unequal. it's time to learn from our history. rights don't exist if they're not exercised. it is time to look back on the past 70 years and commit ourselves to the defence of the human rights of all. gentlemen of the council, as nelson mandela said, "to deny people their human rights is to question their own humanity". they don't question anyone's humanity.
madam president, the european council will finally have a first substantial discussion on the upcoming multiannual financial framework (mff). on the one hand, this comes late: the council does not foresee an agreement before autumn 2019, and even this deadline could be unrealistic given the renewal of parliament and the commission next year. on the other hand, this delay will probably allow us to have a proper debate during the european election campaign on the kind of political priorities on which the eu should focus in the coming years and give the final say to the next parliament. for reasons of legitimacy, this seems to me to be a reasonable option. we all need a good final deal, but the negotiating box circulated by the austrian presidency contains some worryingly ill elements, particularly as regards the mix between elements falling in the consent procedure and those falling under co—decision. let us be clear: parliament won’t accept that the council and the european council decide unilaterally on elements that have to be co—decided.
madam president, president juncker, when we go to the polls next year, 2019, it will be no less than ten years since the treaty of lisbon came into force, which made a promise to 500 million europeans: among other things, it promised an area of freedom, security and justice ensuring the free movement of persons and the integrated management of the external borders. this council deals with migration and is still waiting for the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen. this council is talking about migration and a common migration policy is still pending. it speaks of fake news and it turns out that many people believe, intoxicated by the manipulation of information, that there is uncontrolled immigration as a result of european policy, when immigration itself is not uncontrolled, although it is true that there is still no common european policy on migration and the management of asylum and refuge. and finally, this council is talking about a common foreign policy which has yet to be invented because the marrakesh summit has unfortunately shown that the european union does not have a common position, even in multilateral decision-making fora.
president of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. a few brief concluding remarks: i am very much in favour of the council dealing more intensively with the medium-term financial framework than it is doing. but i must commend the austrian presidency: the commission has presented its proposals at an unprecedented early stage and the austrian presidency has worked on the negotiation boxes at a pace unlike any previous presidency. if there are no negotiating boxes, there will be no medium-term financial framework. i would be glad if the european council would refer to these negotiation boxes so that we can take this over into the next few months and into the next presidency. this is of vital importance. secondly, i am disappointed that - i believe it was the home and justice ministers - we have not been able to agree on the commission's proposal that we should move the border and coast guard towards a force of 10,000. this was a proposal from the commission, this was a proposal from the austrian presidency. i am not at all surprised that for years - and not just in sunday speeches, but also here and in national parliaments - the word 'stronger border protection' has been repeatedly used, and when the proposal comes, one gets cold feet and refers to national sovereignty. either or! either we strengthen the external border guard or we should stop these speeches now instead of demanding something that can be had tomorrow morning! (applause from the centre) as for the multiannual financial framework, after having listened to ourselves and others and having read the unreadable parts of what has been put on paper in different capitals, i continue to believe that the budget for the next seven-year period which the commission has submitted to your consideration is going in the right direction. we had the choice, comment dire, entre rien and tout. the european council, the various instances of the council and the parliament have agreed on new priorities: research, innovation, defence, erasmus, etc. we should include these new priorities in the budgetary resources available to us. so we had to reorganise the structure of the budget by reducing the funds allocated to the common agricultural policy and the cohesion policy, which are not old policies, which are policies for the future, but we have to take account of the different economic and social developments in the different countries. if we had integrated in a single proposal the new policies i have just mentioned, plus the old policies which remain modern, the budget would have reached a ceiling of 1.4%. even the parliament has a crude wisdom in limiting the ceiling to 1.3%. if i were to come before you with my colleagues to present a budget of 1.4%, we would have no chance of seeing budgetary figures reach such levels in any member state. so i think we'll have to speed up our work. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i am not the spokesman for the austrian chancellor, nor for the austrian government, nor for the council of ministers. but i would like to point out, as someone who has held four or five council presidencies, that there has never been a council presidency with which parliament has been completely satisfied. i, as president-in-office, was never fully satisfied with my own personal contribution to european progress. i've had my share of bouts of weakness. a weak point was that austria did not sign the migration pact. but the austrian federal government is not alone in this case. so it is not enough to criticize the presidency here. then you have to - by naming the states - name all those who refuse to sign this pact. i would have liked to have seen the european union come to marrakesh in a united fighting formation instead of as a headless chicken coop. this is not in keeping with the european identity foundation in the field of foreign policy. but it's not the austrians' fault. the austrian presidency has also taken a number of initiatives, and has led to many decisions in the transport council and others, which show that, with the exception of this small weakness, this is a good presidency. there have been council presidencies in recent years that have been subject to more criticism than the austrian one.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, president juncker, honourable members, thank you for your comments. let me first address the subject of migration. i can assure you our presidency has invested heavily in this subject in order to find solutions. we felt that only if we tried to unite all member states behind solutions would they be implemented seriously. the presidency suggested a broader concept of mandatory solidarity, which would allow member states to choose from a set of solidarity measures when one member state is in need – with allocation being one of the possible measures to choose from. this concept was first discussed during bilateral meetings at ambassador level over the summer. it was further developed and discussed over a ‘tour des capitales’ conducted by the austrian presidency to seek member states’ views on what additional elements they deemed necessary to operationalise the concept. another question we looked at was the possibility of making progress towards adoption of some elements of the package. however, the austrian presidency has also been working intensively on all three dimensions of migration. in addition to the internal dimension, there is the common european asylum system (ceas) package, and the austrian presidency has also considered the external dimension, as well as external border protection, and has examined possible measures that member states can adopt in those areas. this new approach was also presented to the council at the working lunch of interior ministers on 6 december 2018 and, prior to that, at the technical meeting on 22 november. the participation of european citizens when discussing this and other european issues is very important. thus, let me say a few concluding words about the pan-european exercise of the citizens’ dialogue and citizens’ consultations. this was a unique endeavour to engage with citizens across europe and it was a truly inspiring experience. i myself had the opportunity to participate in several events in austria. besides those organised by the member states, the consultations and discussions with citizens on the future of europe undertaken by this house and by the commission – which has already done its own citizens’ dialogue for a very long time – as well as the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee all contributed to this process. the outcome will be presented to the leaders by chancellor kurz this week in order to further reflections on the strategic agenda. thank you very much for your attention.
in writing. the 2019 european elections will coincide with the 10th anniversary of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which made a promise to 500 million europeans: among other things, it promised an area of freedom, security and justice ensuring the free movement of persons and the integrated management of external borders. this european council deals with migration and is still waiting for the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen. this european council is talking about migration and a common migration policy is still pending. it speaks of fake news and it turns out that many people believe, intoxicated by the manipulation of information, that there is uncontrolled immigration as a result of european policy, when immigration itself is not uncontrolled, although it is true that there is still no common european policy on migration and the management of asylum and refuge. and finally, this european council is talking about a common foreign policy which has yet to be invented because the marrakesh summit has unfortunately shown that the european union does not have a common position, even in multilateral decision-making fora.
in writing. next year's european elections will coincide with the 10th anniversary of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which made, among other things, a promise to 500 million europeans: the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice ensuring the free movement of persons and the integrated management of external borders. this european council deals with migration, but it is still pending nothing less than the accession to schengen of two member states such as bulgaria and romania and the adoption of a common policy on migration and the management of asylum and refuge. it speaks of disinformation and fake news and it turns out that many people believe, intoxicated by the manipulation of information, that there is uncontrolled immigration as a result of european policy, a falsehood easily verifiable in view of the fall in arrival flows. finally, it speaks of a common foreign policy which has yet to be invented, as was again shown at the marrakesh summit, where, unfortunately, the european union has shown that it lacks a common position also in the multilateral decision-making forums on this matter.
in writing. the 2019 european elections will coincide with the 10th anniversary of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which made a promise to 500 million europeans: among other things, it promised an area of freedom, security and justice ensuring the free movement of persons and the integrated management of external borders. this european council deals with migration and is still waiting for the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen. this european council is talking about migration and a common migration policy is still pending. it speaks of fake news and it turns out that many people believe, intoxicated by the manipulation of information, that there is uncontrolled immigration as a result of european policy, when immigration itself is not uncontrolled, although it is true that there is still no common european policy on migration and the management of asylum and refuge. and finally, this european council is talking about a common foreign policy which has yet to be invented because the marrakesh summit has unfortunately shown that the european union does not have a common position, even in multilateral decision-making fora.
in writing. the 2019 european elections will coincide with the 10th anniversary of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which made a promise to 500 million europeans: among other things, it promised an area of freedom, security and justice ensuring the free movement of persons and the integrated management of external borders. this european council deals with migration and is still waiting for the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen. this european council is talking about migration and a common migration policy is still pending. it speaks of fake news and it turns out that many people believe, intoxicated by the manipulation of information, that there is uncontrolled immigration as a result of european policy, when immigration itself is not uncontrolled, although it is true that there is still no common european policy on migration and the management of asylum and refuge. and finally, this european council is talking about a common foreign policy which has yet to be invented because the marrakesh summit has unfortunately shown that the european union does not have a common position, even in multilateral decision-making fora.
in writing. the 2019 european elections will coincide with the 10th anniversary of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which made a promise to 500 million europeans: among other things, it promised an area of freedom, security and justice ensuring the free movement of persons and the integrated management of external borders. this european council deals with migration and is still waiting for the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen. this european council is talking about migration and a common migration policy is still pending. it speaks of fake news and it turns out that many people believe, intoxicated by the manipulation of information, that there is uncontrolled immigration as a result of european policy, when immigration itself is not uncontrolled, although it is true that there is still no common european policy on migration and the management of asylum and refuge. and finally, this european council is talking about a common foreign policy which has yet to be invented because the marrakesh summit has unfortunately shown that the european union does not have a common position, even in multilateral decision-making fora.
the rapporteur. mr president, first of all i want to thank everyone involved - the alternative rapporteurs, the teams, the bulgarian and austrian presidencies - for having a new regulation which will put a fundamental european agency in place for the next 20 or 30 years. we must realize what we end up voting for with importance. and i would also like to ask all members and those who are coming: please, it is a great european agency, use it, use it!
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. so far this year, 2,133 people. and every tragedy has a human face. we have worked very hard in this european parliament to give it a more humane response and for that i want to thank the shadow rapporteurs, who have worked side by side to make an attempt to build a more humane response possible, and the conference of presidents, who give us the opportunity to vote here and now. it is an exercise in responsibility, with a more humane response to at least open up the possibility of a legal path of access to europe for those who flee the horror like someone fleeing from the mouth of a shark, and who do so without losing their lives in the process or at the hands of unscrupulous traffickers. yesterday marked the 70th anniversary of the universal declaration of human rights and three years ago the european union received the nobel peace prize. and i see no better way to honour this legacy than to vote in favour by qualified majority of this response and this legislative initiative on humanitarian visas.
rapporteur. – mr president, in view of the vote and in view of article 59 of the rules of procedure, i request a referral back to the committee responsible for interinstitutional negotiations to get started with the trilogue as soon as possible. i ask for a positive vote for the referral.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, thank you, rapporteurs, thank you, commissioner, and thank you, alternative rapporteurs. we are obliged to understand the changes in the terrorist threat, its mutations, to anticipate as much as possible and to identify which legislative instruments should be developed in the next term, to be effective and to reach consensus where possible. i have tried to remember this, and i have not forgotten the testimonies of the survivors of the bombings or the families of the victims. on behalf of my group and myself, i would like to stress some of the recommendations. the level of information exchange between member states can be improved. we therefore call for more intensive cooperation and coordination between the european union agencies, national agencies, intelligence and police services, and for the obligation for member states to comply with minimum data quality standards when entering information into the system. some member states find it difficult to understand that european cooperation improves their operational capabilities. my group, the alde group, has therefore asked the european commission, by means of an amendment, for a proposal to extend europol's mandate so that it can initiate investigations on its own initiative. the fight against violent radicalisation is one of the outstanding issues. that is why i think it is so necessary to ask for the creation of a centre of excellence for the prevention of radicalization, which will be able to measure the effectiveness of the programmes. we need to improve the evaluation of instruments against radicalisation and develop prevention, counter-narrative and local work in an orderly manner. for the first time - and this is a milestone - the commission is asked to come forward with a legislative proposal on victims of terrorism, including a common definition of their status and rights and of the procedures for accessing the necessary care. and it is also very important that it recommends specific functions for the european coordination centre. the european parliament has called on the member states to refrain from paying homage to terrorists by condemning them in the strongest possible terms. i can assure you that this is a very important measure of terrorist delegitimization and prevention and a message for judges, prosecutors and governments. the balance between security and individual freedoms is the vault key to our work. and we can harmonize it.
mr. chairman, thank you, commissioner. i would like to dedicate this report to all the victims of terrorism in europe and i would like to have a memorial for my brother alberto and his wife ascen, who were killed by the terrorist organisation eta for defending spain. i therefore thank the rapporteurs for including the recommendations on the rights of victims, in which we call for the creation of a coordination centre for victims of terrorism, which would respond in the event of an attack in one or more states; for a comprehensive response with material, psychological and access to justice support; for the criminalisation of apologising for terrorism, which humiliates victims and attacks their dignity; and we call on the commission to come forward with a specific legislative proposal for victims of terrorism, which would include a clear definition of what constitutes a victim of terrorism and provide a short and long-term response. this report responds to the need for a more effective strategy than we have, because european society is the real victim of terrorism, because they want to destroy our freedom and our values, and in the face of this we must prevent and protect citizens, and do so without any qualms by fighting radicalisation and with greater police and judicial cooperation. it's time to move from words to deeds. we cannot let our guard down because we europeans have the right to live free and safe. i don't want to cry anymore, or bring more flowers to the graves of the innocent, i want them alive and i want to give heartfelt thanks to those who have sacrificed their lives for the freedom of all of us sitting here.
madam president, commissioner king, in the fight against terrorism, the right to liberty and personal dignity has the same status as the right to the security of europeans. we know very well that the right to security is a fundamental right. this is the case in article 17 of the spanish constitution and article 6 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. and, as has been made clear here, spaniards have suffered and learned in the fight against terrorism, and we know that we need specialised justice, a prosecutor's office, criminal law, prison law, but also fight against the stigmatisation of the different, fight against social exclusion, which is often at the root of the jihadisation of discontent. that is why we know that the rule of law against terrorism is needed, but also that the fight against terrorism must respect the rule of law, which means that we cannot be complicit in stigmatising any category of people, as if they were particularly dangerous because of who they are. to that end, he has no doubt that he will have the full support of this european parliament across the board, in all the member states and parliamentary groups with experience of counter-terrorism.
madam president, i would like to congratulate all the rapporteurs and their teams on the work they have done. i call for more attention to constitutional breaches in some member states which prevent the integration into european intelligence of police with the skills, knowledge and capacity to combat terrorism. i am glad that our proposal to organise websites in all the states is incorporated to make it easier for victims to access care programmes, to manage them from the emergency coordination centres and to recognise the local and regional role. i am glad that the principle of reinstating the criminal law and the cleanliness with which the terrorist challenge must be met are underlined. the highest judicial authorities in a member state, repeatedly condemned here for failing to investigate torture, undermine trust between judicial systems. and i support the exchange of good practice because there is also local and regional knowledge; it will help to avoid mistakes such as the one which led to a citizen who suffered more than twenty attempted attacks having to be acquitted by the strasbourg court of the incomprehensible sentence imposed on him in his member state for a non-existent collaboration with his executioners.
the union has suffered an unprecedented wave of terrorist attacks. the union has fought and is still fighting to respond adequately to the terrorist threat through new legislative proposals and the strengthening of existing mechanisms. the creation of a special committee in the european parliament has been a key piece, particularly in its recommendations on cooperation, data exchange and prevention of radicalisation. the role of europol and its iru and ectc units in the framework of the identification and removal of extremist content on networks needs to be highlighted. the tftp agreement to prevent the financing of terrorism is also noteworthy, and the need for a similar mechanism at union level has been highlighted. the new interoperability proposals will facilitate the exchange of information and increase police cooperation. it is also essential to involve all institutional and citizen actors in the fight against radicalisation. the fight against the terrorist threat must be continued by strengthening the tools mentioned here and recommending that the union and the member states equip them with the technical and human resources needed to combat terrorism.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the course of this debate various colleagues have stressed the strategic nature of this agreement, which comes at a very particular moment in our calendar, after long and arduous negotiations, after the g20 meeting in buenos aires, where president trump has presented the new version of the agreement with his country, mexico and canada, and almost at the end of this legislature. i think the commission should be congratulated on the conclusion of these negotiations and on its trade policy, which is one of the great successes of the juncker commission. this is corroborated by the agreements with canada, the agreements with vietnam, singapore and mexico and the mandates with australia and new zealand. and i also think that the commission should be recognised for its efforts to lead a trading order based on rules and values. the subject still to be dealt with, commissioner, is the mercosur agreement. i hope that after 20 years we will seize this opportunity and i hope that tomorrow there will be a large majority for this eu-japan agreement, which will benefit our citizens, give our companies greater opportunities and create more and better jobs.
madam president, i was here at 3 p.m. i've asked for the 3:00 p.m. speaking shift. i can assure you that many of those who were here, who have intervened in the turn of "catch the eye" were not. i don't know what the procedure was for requesting it. i'm a member of the international trade commission. this is a debate on international trade and i do not understand, in this case either, why i have not been given the floor.
madam president, no, i have not left the chamber since the debate began. in fact, i was in this room before the previous debate was over. that's not an argument either.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, hdp co-chair demirtaş must be immediately released. according to the european court of human rights ruling, which is binding, the fact that he was in pre-trial detention during two electoral campaigns for the constitutional referendum and for the presidential election did not just undermine his political rights, but also the rights of the citizens to be represented. this, therefore, undermines pluralism and democracy itself. when state authorities abuse pre-trial imprisonment to silence opponents and limit freedom of political debate, we cannot remain silent. nor should we remain silent waiting for another echr ruling concerning similar situations that exist today in the eu: for example, those of the catalan political prisoners in pre-trial detention who are also mps who cannot exercise their duties as elected politicians, and some of them were even prevented from participating in the electoral campaign. we will stand by human rights, or again we will be recklessly using double standards.
mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs, mr mcallister and mr paşcu, and say that the credibility of the european union's foreign and security policy, and the safeguarding of our principles, will depend to a large extent on our being able to equip ourselves with the necessary tools to complete - as mr mcallister said - the soft power we have with the security demands of our citizens. in the last two years we have made clear progress within the framework of the common strategy, seeking our strategic autonomy, seeking cooperation from the member states through permanent structured cooperation with our allies and within the framework of the atlantic alliance, and launching the european defence fund and the european peace facility. we are clearly moving in the right direction, we have reason to be satisfied, but there is still much to be done. madam high representative, i encourage you to continue along this line and to work on the decision-making mechanisms. while our allies act and take decisions overnight, we are blocked by the principle of unanimity and it is clear that we must make progress in resolving the deadlines imposed on us by immediacy and speed.
mr president, the european union is in a complex, difficult and changing external and security context. only in our neighbourhood do we have interstate conflicts, failed states, terrorism, open violations of international law, hybrid wars, and so on. and, on a global level, multilateralism and the international order of the last few decades are increasingly being questioned. globalization has made us all more interdependent. the choice of retreat or inaction is meaningless. europeans must be active at international level and we are stronger together than apart. we need an ever more solid, determined and effective european foreign policy, combining soft power with so-called hard power. i therefore support mr mcallister's report, which also stresses the need to make progress on the common security and defence policy, which is the very subject of mr paşcu's report. the report by mr mcallister, whom i congratulate, deals with transatlantic relations and the neighbourhood policy, particularly in relation to the countries of the southern mediterranean, which are of such importance to the european union. but fortunately it also concerns relations with latin america, those countries which i like to call the natural allies of the european union. i would like to conclude by saying that i hope that the negotiations with mercosur will be concluded soon.
mr president, mrs mogherini, when we look at these two reports, we realise the great original sin they have at a time when the european union is unraveling and is also experiencing a disintegrating moment. and i am referring to the extreme defence of the sacrosanct transatlantic bond, which clearly states that it is a european union without strategic autonomy. the united states is not interested in a coherent, strong, voiceless and good-neighbourly european union. and we see it every day: the differences on the climate issue, on the trade issue, on the issue of, for example, relations with iran or china. and in the military field we see the exact same thing happening. we must heed what nato tells us: 2% to the glory of the arms companies, and a movement that goes against our neighbourhood, a military movement. it will be another sunrise in this disintegrating process of the european union.
mr president, madam high representative, today we are talking about the security and defence policy and the foreign policy of the european union, because europe is really facing a world that is more hostile to it and that speaks a language to which we are not so accustomed. a more hostile world, with transatlantic relations that are not as reliable as they used to be, with a really conflicted neighborhood and with an asian ancestry that is going to change absolutely everything. and a language, the language of hard power, the language of great power competition, that we are not used to. the message from parliament and the other institutions is therefore clear: we need better and greater cooperation in defence to gain strategic autonomy, to have a strong position in the world in defence of our values and to be able to keep pace with the enormous soft power in diplomacy and trade that the union today supports. we must be able to be flexible and autonomous in order to defend our position, our values and our interests in the world.
mr president, it is impossible for me to list in a minute the thousands of human rights violations that exist in the world, but i will mention a few: for example, those affecting children who die by the thousands in yemen or children who are exposed to abuses such as forced marriages, trafficking, child prostitution, genital mutilation or the use of child soldiers. this report is about freedom of religion and i would like to remind you that 75% of all those persecuted for their faith are christians, who are killed in dozens of countries around the world and who deserve effective action by the european union. finally, i would like to refer to the situation in venezuela, where venezuelans are emigrating by the millions because of hunger and opponents are being killed and tortured, while maduro is selling as legitimate elections that are a clear violation of the right to democracy of the brave venezuelan people.
mr president, first of all i would like to express my gratitude on behalf of my group to mr stavros lambrinidis. i think you have done a great job and i congratulate you on behalf of the socialist group. mrs mogherini has said that the human rights narrative needs to be strengthened, and she is very right, because there is a dangerous ideology that is devaluing the importance of this great conquest of human dignity. there is a dangerous tendency to devalue this importance, including with the withdrawal of the united states from the united nations human rights council, which i think is very serious news. i think that we should emphasize two points which i believe are key in the report. the first is the fight against corruption. there are countries in latin america in particular that are burned by corruption, with a serious violation of human rights. and secondly, i think it is important that we further strengthen the advocacy of human rights defenders around the world and of the ngos that do so.
i am not saying that the european union should be a mere institution, but that it should be a political body, a political body, a political body, a political body. and so i want to start by thanking the excellent work done by the whole negotiating team of the european parliament, but also commissioner oettinger and minister löger, and i especially want to congratulate mr viotti because he has managed to lead budgetary negotiations which were obviously complicated. we have once again been on the verge of a budgetary crisis, on the verge of no agreement, because the council has not been able or has not been willing to enter into serious negotiations. and that is not how europe is built, because we are talking about a budget that represents only 1% of gdp. we are talking about increases which are ridiculous from a budgetary point of view but which are very important for the citizens. for example, we have secured an extra 240 million for erasmus, which will enable some 65 000 more students to have this experience; or an extra 150 million for research programmes, which are key to our future; or an extra 116 million for the youth guarantee, which will enable young people to continue their training or to access their first job; or an extra 160 million which will give opportunities and hope to our neighbours. and this is what the european parliament has achieved. and this is what the council initially refused us. and it has been quite sad to see some european leaders block this budget after making grandiloquent speeches that were obviously full of cheap europeanism. because speed is demonstrated by walking, and that is what the budget is all about, translating the raison d'être of this european union into concrete things and making unimaginable projects a reality. and, by the way, projects that no one, much less terrorists, will be able to stop, because we must continue to defend the values of the european union, of peace, coexistence and solidarity, no matter who cares.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would also like to thank the commissioner for her presence and, above all, i would like to thank the rapporteurs, mrs virkkunen, although she is here on the subject of industry, but above all mr marinescu and mr telička, for the good cooperation we have had in this second edition of a new mechanism for 2021-2027. thanks to good cooperation we have managed to cope with some attempts at cuts; we have maintained the 50% co-financing rate for studies; we have also managed to get co-financing up to 50%, particularly for railway hours, which means a little more capacity; also for cross-border projects, which may also receive higher funding; and above all, i think it is important to emphasize everything related to the greater involvement of local and regional authorities and the greater capacity, too, to make these corridors really a fundamental element of the future. and i want to say to you in particular that in the annexes we have also been able to include a railway section essential for my region - let me make this small point - the railway section between zaragoza, teruel and sagunto, with which we have done, so to speak, a little more justice by including it in the priority corridor 'mediterranean'. i must also say that there is a pending link 'el pau-huesca', very close to my heart, which has also been accepted. all i ask is that we be able to make a strong, powerful final vote. the financing issues are possibilities which we will have to strengthen later in the mff, but right now what we need is the greatest possible financing capacity, including the transfer of the cohesion fund. we've done very well so far, and the future will be good too.
mr president, i would like to say that this new connecting europe facility for the next seven years, as it has come to us in this house, is quite disappointing to our group. in addition to the rough negotiations between the alternative rapporteurs, we feel that this mechanism means that many opportunities for progress are lost. on the one hand, it declines to establish health and environmental standards to prevent electromagnetic pollution. on the other hand, it continues to finance co2-producing energy and technologies, while still upholding the absurd principle of neutrality. ladies and gentlemen, we know that liquefied natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, is going to be in the energy mix in the short term, but to be neutral in terms of promoting technology or infrastructure, i think it is to cheat the loner, because in a few years zero-emission energies are going to be the ones that prevail. thirdly, it is obvious that it will strengthen the climate criteria for projects, which prevents us from complying with the paris agreement, and on top of that it will continue to finance macro-structures that are widely rejected by the population, such as the tunnel under the alps for the tav between lyon and turin. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
in writing. the ecm is not just about transport, a sector that generates more than 20% of greenhouse gas emissions and causes almost half a million premature deaths in europe from pollution. the ecm is also energy. the commission is therefore planning to spend a further €70 billion on gas and fossil fuel infrastructure with emissions equivalent to the combustion of petrol, but which is more like coal combustion, given the leakage it produces, and is 80 times more potent as a greenhouse gas than co2 itself. this is in contradiction with the recent commission communication on the european strategy to achieve climate neutrality, where the presence of gas is minimised in the scenarios put forward by the commission itself to achieve the paris targets. the commission is obstinately financing gas infrastructure worth millions of dollars, when in its own scenarios it recognizes that it is a source that will be discontinued.
i would like to begin by saying that it is difficult to continue this debate with what has just happened outside this parliament in the city of strasbourg. all my sorrow and condolences to the french people. at a time when science and research are undergoing the greatest revolution in recent history, horizon europe must respond to the needs of all citizens and at the same time anticipate the consequences. i therefore think it is important that the need to measure the results has been introduced, not only in economic terms but also in terms of social impact. i am also pleased that the impression left by parliament on the commission's proposal includes the reintroduction of the instrument for smes, which has been so positive; and also that gender is introduced as an operational objective in a transversal way, because there will be no quality research and science if they are not provided on an equal footing. i also welcome the introduction of the social sciences and the humanities, and of course climate reinforcement. i would also like to ask for a final effort in terms of agriculture. i think the commission has made a commitment to this parliament, particularly in view of the possible major cut in the cap, and i think it is very important that if we want to help sustainable and competitive agriculture, the 'horizon europe' programme should accompany it. i also believe that the amendment which is being tabled is a balanced amendment which does not represent a significant reduction in any of the other chapters or clusters. we should therefore make it possible to recover the agricultural budget.
mr president, my first words are also to the victims of this brutal shooting and to their families, and i also want to wish the recovery of the injured. thank you very much, inspector, for your excellent work. i believe that without a doubt the most important thing we can offer the citizens is a better future. and to offer them a better future, we have to guarantee them quality jobs with decent wages, and that can only be achieved if we are able to compete in the global environment, and that requires more innovation, more science, more research, but it also requires two considerations that i want you to keep in mind. firstly, the importance of all innovation, research and development reaching the whole of the small and mediumsized enterprises; that is why it is essential to recover the instrument for smes. and two, don't just look at innovation as the technological aspect; design is a fundamental element of creativity and quality.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr president anastasiades, as a spaniard and as a representative of the alde group i defend and we defend the absolute and radical unity of the republic of cyprus. for me and the alde group, there are not two communities, but one nation and a few cypriot european compatriots. a single republic of cyprus. but, mr president, cyprus has a pathology both internal and external. when we talk about cyprus having three guarantor countries - namely, britain, which is about to leave the european union; another country outside the european union, turkey; and another country within the european union, greece - we are dealing with a pathological situation that does not exist in any country in the world and is the result of a situation that you know, which is the horrible war of liberation and independence and the intercommunal war before 1960, with the situation of eoka and what you know. the bloody christmas of 1963 saw horrific events in both communities, and the withdrawal of the turkish community from the institutions in 1964. the republic of cyprus has too many taksim, has too many megali idea, too many enosis ideas in the past. and it also has the story of nikos sampson's coup against president makarios in 1974. and what is a pathology, and i say this from what i know, is that for one part of the cypriot community - and i am talking about the cypriot community, a single cyprus - there is an occupation, but for another part of that cypriot community it is a guarantee. and that is pathological. so the first thing we have to ask is why all this exists and not simply ask it as a question of a metaphysical situation, but of the real situation in the split, divided and separated cypriot society. and this brings me to the next questions. the first one. almost half a century, mr president, half a century of two separate communities living side by side; generations that have not met; generations that live looking the other way. this objectively means a situation of deepening social division, apart from the geographical division. if we continue in the situation of blockage, which is what is happening now, we will continue to sink into two social situations that will not be understood because they do not know each other. the second one. and this brings me to the politicians. the agreement reached at crans-montana was very close, but how far has there been a lack of political will? that decision was made by a political leader, winston churchill, when he was able to take the risk of putting the interests of the british nation first and not the interests of his particular political interests. and in crans-montana, so near and so far. the next question is therefore: when will cypriot politicians understand that the nation is more important than their particular interests? the third concerns the objective situation. when you enter the parliament of cyprus, one part of the parliament is empty, that of your fellow countrymen - my fellow european turkish cypriots - who are absent. here, on the other hand, all the seats in the european parliament are filled, but they do not represent the whole cypriot community, they represent a part of it, and that is also a pathological situation. and this brings me to my final question. crans-montana was so close and so far away that there is talk of a new agreement, a new understanding, a new meeting. do you think that, with all the experience of almost fifty years of failed talks, of the annan plan, which went nowhere, will a new meeting be worth anything or will it serve to permanently maintain a division which also decisively affects the national and economic future of the island? and so i ask you, mr president: is it not time that we abandon the external protectors, which are in fact the external blockers many times, and go to arbitration by the member countries of the european union - of your european family - and put an end to the pathology of the island of cyprus?
president of cyprus. mr president, first of all i would like to express my warmest thanks to the vice-president and to the leaders of the various political groups in the european parliament for both the kind words and the criticisms that have been made. criticism, when it is in good faith, when it is based on facts and evidence, is a guide for a government to re-adjust policies and adopt such decisions as will create even better living conditions for its citizens. i would like to make a general reference to the cyprus problem, the economy, inequality, what has been said, citizenship, policies concerning the granting of citizenship, etc. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are talking about a state that was completely united with people who lived in mixed communities. it was composed of mixed communities, greek cypriots and turkish cypriots. as a result of the crime and the actions of the greek junta against makarios, under the pretext and pretext of protecting the turkish cypriots, turkey invaded to restore constitutional order, despite the fact that no action was directed against the turkish cypriots, despite the fact that makarios returned to cyprus, constitutional order was restored. the turkish government has not yet taken any action to prevent the turkish government from using its right of intervention, which is an anachronism, to invade and divide the republic of cyprus, as has been its policy since 1956. since then, since the invasion, we have made a historic but painful compromise: accepting the bi-zonal bi-communal federation. we have made efforts, we have accepted political equality, we have accepted active, effective participation in the various institutions. but every time we concede, in order to find a solution, some excessive if you will or excessive rights based on democracy, the turkish cypriots come back at the behest of turkey to demand more. i'll give you an example: the demand of the turkish cypriot community, which represents 20% of the population of cyprus, to have one positive vote for every decision of the central government, whether it be the government or any other institution, tell me how it can be accepted? however, and for the sake of finding a solution, we have said that we do not deny the right to a positive vote if and as long as it is exercised in order to protect the rights of the turkish cypriot community from any decisions that may be taken by the majority in abuse of rights and to the detriment of the turkish cypriot community, provided, of course, that there is still an effective dispute settlement mechanism. it was not accepted. i'm coming to crane montana, where we were too close and too far. we were indeed very close, if the six points of the parameters, as set out by the secretary-general of the united nations, mr gutierrez, for the creation of a normal state, were adopted. what were these six conditions: abolition of the anachronistic guarantees, the rights of intervention, a vertical reduction of the occupation army to 650 and 950, i.e. the conditions provided for by the guarantee treaties and the treaty establishing the republic of cyprus, the way in which the right of a positive vote is exercised by turkish cypriots, in which institutions, when and how it is exercised and how the smooth functioning of the state is ensured, the issues of territorial adjustments that were absolutely necessary, the issues of the property of the greek cypriots - the problem must be regulated - but also a further claim by turkey that greek citizens should be treated equally with turkish citizens, as if the greek citizens had the right to be treated. the greeks are not given any special treatment. the greek cypriots were treated as other europeans were treated, but the demand was that for every greek who settled in cyprus under european law, we should have a turkish citizen in return. and i ask you: there are only 800,000 of us. if something similar were to be accepted, would we have or not have in no time a change in the demographic character, when this is already happening in the occupied territory? today there are more turkish nationals than turkish cypriots. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i would point out that we had submitted answers to all six of the secretary-general's points, which were consolidated and integrated. the european parliament has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and it has been very active in the fight against terrorism, and it has been very active in the fight against terrorism. and i ask you: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. so it's a mystery who led and how we got to the dead end. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. i would like to say that within the next few days mrs lute, the secretary-general's representative, will be in cyprus. we are determined to cooperate. what we expect is the same goodwill on the other side. and i want to make one thing clear: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. as far as the economy is concerned, i want to say that not only are we not sorry for the decisions we were forced to accept, but we are also grateful because if we were not in the european union, i do not know who would finance us so that the state would not go bankrupt, and i would remind you that in 2013, when we took over, we had cash available for the salaries of civil servants for only one month and liabilities until june that exceeded three billion. therefore, immediate action was needed. roger that. there was a proposal which was more favourable than the one which was finally adopted. it was not rejected by parliament; it was its right. but we must say that by taking decisive and bold steps we have achieved both reforms and rationalization of the economy and we are determined to continue in this way. the citizenship policy: i mean that somewhere there is a strong if you will targeting of cyprus. i would like to inform you that in the last five years from 2013 to august 2018, the total number of citizenship granted by the republic of cyprus does not exceed 4,700, representing 0.3% of the total number of citizenship granted by other states of the european union. we have set strict criteria. we've been audited by moneyval. we have adopted policies that limit the number of people who can acquire cypriot citizenship per year. we are trying and have decided to employ a foreign firm to control the necessary procedures and to exercise control over the financial resources of the investors. we are being very careful to avoid cases like the one i hear some people say about, that some people are being allowed to acquire european citizenship at the expense of the security of the european union. but there has never been a terrorist attack in cyprus! it's not my country that's being attacked by terrorists. it is not in my country that most of the football clubs are owned by oligarchs from other countries, third countries, or that the headquarters and the big buildings and the big real estate have gone to russian oligarchs or arab oligarchs or others. it is not a bad thing, but it is not possible to target a small country because it has granted 0.3% of the citizenship granted by the rest of europe, and i do not want to mention how many tens of thousands have been granted by the various countries. i'm stopping here. as for some phenomena on the issues of inequality and so on, i would just say that when we took over, the economy was in the category of junk. · 22 relegations. today we have managed to overcome all the problems through upgrades and to be back at the investment stage. we are in the fourth year of 4% growth. we have had budget surpluses of 3% for the last three years; unemployment has fallen from 16 percent when we took over the state to 7 percent. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the cypriot people are not deprived of their basic rights. of course, it is a matter for each individual to judge as he wishes. what i'm saying is that our ears are open to suggestions. we are ready to work with everyone in order to achieve better days for our country. the european union is not only a political union, but also a political union, and i am sure that the european union will be able to play a part in this. we are doing everything possible, in accordance with our size, to consolidate regional peace and to establish strong regional cooperation, which is also to the benefit of the european union. we will continue to act in the belief that we can achieve much more together, if we are united, if we are in solidarity, if we share the same goal: the future of our common european home.
mr president, mr anastasiades, allow me first of all to express my solidarity with the cypriot people following the torrential rains last week which took the lives of at least four people in kyrenia. tragedies like this remind us of the importance of being able to guarantee the safety of all; the importance, indeed, of continuing to work towards reunification. mr anastasiades, you are demonstrating to the rest of the world that you are making the greatest efforts to unite cyprus again, and you demonstrated that in the crans-montana negotiations. as a european and a spaniard, i hope that the national question will be treated by all as a matter of state. and, of course, so are you. that is why we must move together towards a resumption of the talks. it is in the interest of all european citizens and especially those living on both sides of the green line. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. you have our recognition and also our support.
mr president, in this city of strasbourg, la marseillaise was composed in one night. if i knew, what i'd do this morning is sing it. i want to show my solidarity and our solidarity with the victims. our support for the french authorities and our condemnation of terrorism. last night this parliament felt more the solidarity of the whole of europe than the fear imposed by the terrorists. we spaniards know that terrorism is defeated with unity and democracy. democracy is killing terrorism. that's why we have to convey to the citizens the message that we will pursue the terrorists to the last corner where they hide. they're not gonna win. mr president, what do you think of a single defence system in europe?
mr president, mr anastasiades, spaniards, like so many europeans, have suffered and learned in the fight against terrorism and therefore all our infinite solidarity with the victims and our determination that the terrorists will not succeed in taking away our freedoms. but we have also learned the value of the european union in stimulating reconciliation of historically divided communities. i have had the honour of being the rapporteur for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs on the disappeared in cyprus, an extremely sensitive and delicate issue, in which the right of families to recover the remains of relatives who have been forcibly disappeared must prevail; they must be assured of the commitment of the european institutions - the commission, but also the european parliament - to carry out the task until the remains of the disappeared can be returned to the relatives. and i salute the committee on missing persons, a respected, cross-cutting institution which deserves the full support of our european parliament.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i would like to thank everyone for the opportunity to contribute to this debate. let me start with digital taxation: i would like to give you a brief overview of the work of the austrian presidency, and i would like to summarise the ecofin council outcome and the next steps, as we see it. all member states agreed that the fair taxation of the digital economy is very topical. we also all agreed that, in the long term, this requires a global solution. it becomes more and more evident that global changes in economic models might require a larger overhaul of agreed international tax rules. if we design specific rules targeting only some of the digital business models, we risk not capturing all and not making the rules future—proof. international rules have to be adapted and this has to be done – preferably in an orderly way – by reaching international agreements with a wide scope, both in terms of ambition and in terms of the number of economies adhering thereto. there are discussions currently ongoing at the level of g20 and the oecd. the european union is actively contributing to these discussions. the g20 has set the oecd the deadline of 2020. i believe this is a realistic deadline, and the oecd should be given a fair chance to negotiate and implement revisions to the international tax framework by that date. keeping in mind the wider global context, it is our firm belief that, when it comes to interim levies, a common eu approach is preferable to unilateral national measures. until now, 11 member states have announced that they have, or shortly will have, a national digital service tax in place. we are convinced that, if we do not reach agreement on the eu interim measure, even more member states might consider taking this path. we could see a proliferation of different national taxes with different rates and scopes. this could lead to the fragmentation of the single market and could harm the competitiveness and growth of the eu economy. in this context, the austrian presidency devoted considerable efforts to the digital service tax directive. all technical and legal aspects of the proposal were examined in great detail. numerous meetings took place at technical, as well as at political levels – most notably at ecofin council meetings on 6 november and 4 december 2018. for the meeting of the ecofin council last week, we prepared the compromise text, which had the broad support of member states. in our view, that compromise was balanced and legally sound, representing elements with the most support. unfortunately, before the ecofin meeting, we could see that we would not have unanimity on the text. during the meeting, two delegations – germany and france – in an effort to constructively contribute to the discussions, suggested that we should continue discussing the directive, but with a narrower scope. we have not yet had in—depth discussions of this new suggestion, since delegations need to study it in their capitals. however, many delegations confirmed their willingness to discuss it. therefore, as the presidency, we will try to take discussions forward on that basis. the incoming romanian presidency is closely associated with these discussions and will be ready to seamlessly take over as from 1 january 2019. last but not least, on the topic of digital taxation, i would also like to thank the honourable rapporteurs, mr tang and mr rosati, for their work on this and we welcome the fact that you will very soon adopt the two reports. on the second topic that you have proposed to discuss today – the need for a majority rule for taxation – i can be very brief. as the treaties currently stand, taxation is subject to unanimity. i am aware of the passerelle clause in the treaty on european union. should there be such an initiative on the table, it would be examined in accordance with the procedure foreseen by the treaties.
member of the commission. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. i am here to represent my colleague mr moscovici, who is due to meet the italian prime minister in brussels this afternoon. i would like to thank the two rapporteurs, mr tang and mr rosati, with great respect, for two competent and, in my opinion, comprehensive reports which facilitate the work of the commission at european level and which i can largely endorse. that is why the commission presented an initiative in march of this year. we believe that in the digital age, the corporate tax system in the member states is no longer fully up to date in europe and globally. the decomposition works very, very well in the analogue age for products and services, and therefore also the fair allocation of sales, revenues and therefore possible taxes. but in the case of digital services, this is increasingly difficult to do when there is no physical presence and when data from europeans and european events generates sales and revenues, but also taxes, outside europe. this trend will increase. the share of digital services and big data in global gdp is increasing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the tax system is fair and that the revenue of the public treasury is stabilized. we have therefore made two proposals to ensure fair and efficient taxation. i would like to say at the outset that we are prepared to optimise and develop our proposals. we have made a contribution and are able to work flexibly at any time on further developments with the aim of reaching an agreement. the first is the reform of corporate tax rules to ensure that europe gets a fair share of profits and revenues. and it's about a temporary tax - a temporary tax - targeting the most important digital activities that are currently escaping europe in terms of an increasing amount of revenue. i am glad to see that parliament and the commission are allies on this and other issues. i also thank the presidency for its active role in moderating the council debate, which i believe can be very useful. the two reports - i have mentioned them - show a high level of competence and support the commission's proposals in general. by deciding on these two reports here tomorrow, you will send a clear signal to those member states which are still hesitant to speed up the debate in the council. we think that the franco-german initiative can be helpful here. paris and berlin have proposed to limit the scope to advertising sales in order to reach an agreement by spring next year, with the aim of having a corresponding digital tax come into force on 1 january 2021, but doing everything in time to still reach international solutions at the oecd plus level. the digital tax will enter into force in january 2021 and would expire in 2025, if there is no solution at the international level. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of certain substances and preparations is based on the principle of proportionality. the other argument that needs to be seen is that the trade war with the united states, which we want to avoid and have avoided so far, could become a little more likely again. we must make that assessment in the coming months. the paris and berlin proposal is not quite as ambitious as the commission's, but it is an opportunity to reach an agreement. we agreed that the tax should be temporary. we agree that the optimal solution should be of a structural and global nature - that is why the oecd level is the next level of dialogue. and we have to agree that the lack of agreement would lead to a disorderly approach, with 10, 11 or 12 or more national solutions. this would be a fragmentation of the european, and especially the european digital single market. the digital tax dossier shows once again that it is difficult to solve tax problems within the framework of the unanimity principle. we will therefore propose to this house, as announced by president juncker, in the state of the union address, the adoption of a qualified majority in taxation at the beginning of next year. we would gain the ability to act, and we could also get results faster and with a high probability. examples where the majority principle would be useful include the proposed common consolidated corporate tax base, the reform of vat legislation to create a single vat area and the reform of digital taxation. a transition to qualified majority voting would also broaden the scope of tax policy in europe. we believe that taxation can help to achieve general policy objectives in the field of environmental protection or energy policy, in the rural sector, and financial transaction tax, energy tax or climate tax are examples of this. it would also be a democratic advance. in a union of 28 or 27, unanimity is not really practical; it has become cumbersome and counterproductive. we therefore ask the house to take a favourable view of our proposal at the beginning of next year.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, the design of a stable and modern tax framework is essential to open up digital opportunities to individuals and businesses in a market of over 500 million consumers, the european union. the objective which we have sought to defend in this report is that each company should pay what it is due and, moreover, where it is due. what we cannot allow is that digital companies pay on average half as much corporation tax as traditional companies. this is an injustice to our smes and it is an injustice to all citizens. the proposal that the commission has put before us - and which we support - has introduced a 3% tax on the income of large technology companies, with the aim of establishing a level playing field between the digital and the traditional sectors. we reached a good agreement in the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, with a number of commitments to keep the tax at 3%, while at the same time widening the scope so that more companies in the digital sector would be subject to this tax. but once again the socialist group has failed to comply with its agreements and has unfortunately decided to break the commitment we made just over a week ago at the last meeting of the alternative rapporteurs. his word is worthless and believe me, i'm sorry. in the proposal we wanted to ensure that this is a temporary measure and i think the important thing is to work on a long-term solution - i hope not just at european level but at oecd level - which ensures that all companies play by the same rules and that smes are not the ones who suffer a competitive disadvantage. our role as a parliament must be to contribute constructively to this debate, being aware of the complications the council is having. however, we must ensure that this measure strengthens our digital single market and not allow some member states to decide to implement their own measures while others freeze the proposal.
the next item on the agenda is the debate on the council and commission statements on conflict of interest and protection of the union budget in the czech republic (2018/2975 (rsp)).
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, it is clear that we need to establish a more ambitious strategy to combat possible conflicts of interest, which are not massive but are very worrying, and we have been seeing them for direct management. and there is an example of a commissioner from the group of the people, who is there and who has even appeared in the panama papers, mrs gräßle. you always tell me: "i'm going to do it, i'm going to do it". but the fact is, it doesn't. in shared management: regional governments, local governments and the government of mr babiš, of course. in indirect management: the day before yesterday we were clearly told that the internal audit of the european investment bank, headed by mr hoyer, also had possible and serious conflicts of interest. not to mention other institutions. the court of auditors. there is mr pinxten, in whose case we have also had problems of conflict of interest. not to mention flagship companies like volkswagen, also with some conflict of interest and with european funds and aid. it is therefore clear, commissioner, that we need a comprehensive, sound and modern strategy to combat, prevent and manage conflicts of interest, and thus regain the confidence of the public. rather than a case by case approach, as in the case of mr babiš, which only exacerbates euroscepticism and populism, what we need is a sound strategy with maximum transparency and which certainly complements the rule of law. and in this case we must also acknowledge that the czechs from transparency international complained to olaf, that olaf did its job, and that the project has been withdrawn - which i fear will fall on the backs of the czech citizens - and the rest is up for debate. that too must be acknowledged. and i thank you, mr oettinger, for explaining this to us in your replies to the approval of the management for 2017. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is 'blue card'. mr zdechovský, i think you have spoken without hearing me and that worries me, because what i have said is the opposite: that what worries me is that we are doing a case by case, a cherry picking, which only makes it appear in the newspapers once in your favor, again in my favor. it is not about that, it is about offering a solution to all the conflicts of interest that are appearing like mushrooms and that, in the end, end up rotting the confidence of our citizens. that is what we are demanding and that is what we are trying to achieve. and a casual resolution every now and then, well, i think that is very good: i support it, there is no problem. we shall table our amendments and support it, but that will not solve the situation, it may perhaps get a few more votes in its favour, but it will certainly not solve the real problem of european citizenship. that's what i want, that she be understanding, that we can deal with all the cases, those of her opponents and those of my opponents.
mr. chairman, i deliberately did not enter this debate because the prime minister is suggesting to us, the other politicians of the czech republic, that this is a political game. but the debate today has made it clear that this is a real problem, as described by the commission representative, as described by mrs gräßle and other meps who are not from the czech republic. it's very important that this be said today. it is a real problem, involving european money, and therefore the european institutions have the right to discuss it and to deal with it within their legal capacity. i am convinced as a person who was the minister of justice of the czech republic for five years that the czech authorities will not simply solve this. if andrej babiš is the prime minister, the czech authorities have no chance to solve this. i ask you, mr. oettinger, as the commission's representative, to do everything possible to ensure that this matter is resolved and investigated impartially. otherwise, it will be a big problem for the czech republic to be an active and important country of the european union in the future.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. i thank you for this intensive debate, which shows me how seriously members from different positions take the matter and therefore also have high expectations of the commission - of me, of my colleagues and of the commission services. i want to live up to this high expectation in the coming weeks. we were asked why the anti-corruption report is no longer being presented. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the financial interests of the union. that is why we have made anti-corruption and the fight against corruption a separate section of the european semester and we want to continue to develop this. the rule of law, freedom from corruption and the quality of administration in general are factors which should play an important role in the country specific recommendations and, before that, in the semester. you will find there how we assess the state of corruption-free in the member states member state by member state. secondly, it is of course a shared responsibility of the commission. but i must point out: our options are limited in the operational business. unlike national governments, we have no infrastructure. the basis for budget implementation is the member states, the regions and their authorities, and this is all the more true in the case of shared management. that means we're particularly active when we have reasons, when we have suspicions, when we have clues that things are not right. we are generally assuming that there is an orderly administration, that the tasks are carried out on the basis of european national law. and may i point out: article 36 and article 63 (4) of the financial regulations say exactly that. i can read this in english: [...] applied to shared management requiring member state authorities to put in place effective internal control including the avoidance of conflicts of interest. i would like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems which have arisen in the past, and that it is not unreasonable to ask the commission to take action in this area. i therefore see every reason for the commission to intervene, given this mistrust and the complaints. this is what we do. i was asked when the audits will take place. the directorate-general for employment will be in prague with a team of experts from 8 to 11 january, dg agri from 14 to 18 january, dg regio from 28 january to 1 february and 11 to 15 february. i expect our services to report to me and my colleagues in brussels after they have examined all the necessary documents. i can assure you, because of the question, that bart staes asked this: i want to present a comprehensive report to this parliament by mid-april at the latest, that is to say before the last plenary session here in strasbourg, which you can then use for debate, evaluation and comment, if necessary. the stork nest case has been brought up. this was a project - i think 1.8 million co-financing was applied for. following investigations by olaf, the czech government withdrew its co-financing no money has been paid from the european budget. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. thank you for today. i am happy to be able to answer your questions bilaterally in the new year, perhaps also to refer to it again at the discharge, but as i said, i will report to this parliament in full before mid-april. (applause from the centre)
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, commissioner, honourable members, as i already said at the outset of this debate, it is indeed of the utmost importance that strong mechanisms are in place to protect the union’s financial interests and that they are applied. i listened carefully to your debate and to the concerns you expressed. i also took note of the comprehensive explanations provided by commissioner oettinger. we will follow in particular the further steps that the commission announced.
four motions for resolutions were tabled to wind up the debate, in accordance with rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on the report with recommendations to the committee by mr tadeusz zwiefka, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the accelerated settlement of commercial disputes (2018/2079 ((inl)) (a8-0396/2018).
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this debate which confirms the ambitious vision for future measures to improve the resolution of commercial disputes in the union. i will only repeat now at the end that the commission will use all the instruments we have to hand, especially the justice score board, which is a very useful benchmarking tool. this is the comparison tool which also serves to help the member states to look at the progress they and the other member states made to interpret the reasons for such progress, because it is very important to see why in some member states the progress hasn’t been made. as mr maštálka said, yes we see slow progress, but still – as i said – it is slow, and we need to do better. what is the lesson from the justice score board? it is that digitalisation is not a magic wand, but it is a very important tool which the member states use to make the processes more rapid and more efficient. it is quite clear that where progress is slow or there is no progress at all, it is a matter of capacities. we need to increase specialisation and professionalism of the judges, and that’s why we are also investing in training. the other matter we look at is how to use the european semester, and here it is an interesting development in the commission itself, because we stopped looking at the finance which should be covering the expenditures of the judiciary as if they were costs. we more and more look at them as investments, and this is a very important factor when you look at the european semester where we cover the matters which have direct influence on the economic development in the country. that we make a very clear line between a well working judiciary system which has a positive influence on the economy, which gives the guarantee to investors and entrepreneurs that the law is properly enforced in the country and that there is stability in the functioning of the judiciary system and many other things which simply are clearly favourable for the economic situation and progress in the country. we put this topic of finance in judiciary to the vienna conference, which we had two weeks ago. we had the opportunity to hear how well the world bank is looking at this connection between financing and the judiciary system, and i think this is something which the member states should also take into account in planning their budgets. so, once again, a very inspiring report. we will work with it; i will summarise for my followers all the knowledge and the things which should be covered by possible future legislation. i will not promise you that we will start revising rome i and brussels i, but we will do the proper analysis with some conclusion and some advice for the followers in the sense of possibly working on the update of the european legislation.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow.
the next item is the debate on the report of ms eleonora evi, on behalf of the committee on petitions, on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2017 (2018/2105 (ini)) (a8-0411/2018).
i would like to thank the ombudsman for his work, because he plays a very important institutional role in monitoring the european institutions, examining the cases of maladministration which, unfortunately, are still very common in this union, as we have seen recently with the appointment of the new secretary-general of the commission. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mrs evi, for the work she has done, because the text we are going to adopt strongly supports the ombudsman's work and calls for the greatest possible transparency in decision-making and in particular in the work between parliament, the commission and the council. it is essential to put an end to the revolving doors and the opacity of decisions in the union's institutions, bodies and agencies. i would also like to thank you for including many of my amendments on technical matters such as the updating of the transparency register. enhanced knowledge of the external staff chosen by the commission for its expert groups and increased funding for the ombudsman's office, as well as inquiries into the opacity of decisions in the council or abuses of staff in the european external action service. finally, i would like to call on the commission to respect once and for all the mandate of this house and to initiate the procedures which will allow member states to have access to documentation of investigative procedures. this is to guarantee both the right to petition and the right of access to the available documentation. it is, in short, a question of respect for the rights of citizens of the union.
mr president, the ombudsman, mrs o'reilly, i am sure you have noticed that those of us in this european parliament who regularly take part in the debate on its activities do so out of appreciation, out of respect for the work carried out by a woman at the head of an important european institution. i remember that when you came to this european parliament seeking the qualified majority you needed to exercise your mandate, you promised to reinvent the figure by re-launching it with initiative, and i encourage you to do that, particularly in three areas. you will have seen how many times we have insisted on the fundamental rights of articles 41 and 42 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union good administration, access to information, transparency, but they are connected with the guarantee of confidentiality in the handling of data; therefore, communication with the european data protection supervisor. the second area is communication with the eu agency for fundamental rights, because there is discrimination in the behaviour of the institutions and, of course, a source of complaints is the objective profile with which discrimination is carried out by the institutions. and the third is, of course, olaf and the newly created european public prosecutor's office, because there are many complaints about abuse of power and corruption. good luck with your job, town defender.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to make a proposal to the council to amend the directive on the protection of the environment by means of a directive on the protection of the environment. unfortunately, we continue to see a lack of interest on the part of the states to transpose or apply the legislation correctly. we have seen an irresponsible attitude on the part of the state authorities in applying, for example, the air quality directive, the water framework directive, international humanitarian aid obligations, the directives on the protection of precarious workers, the ratification of the istanbul convention or respect for the principle of free movement of citizens to avoid expulsions in member states. after assessing so many cases, which also affect my country, we cannot be surprised by the crisis of legitimacy of this union, which we are witnessing and suffering at the moment. i am also still outraged by the lack of reaction from the european commission in many cases. the european commission needs to be more involved in its responses, please, and in its actions. it often takes the commission several years to bring infringing states before the court of justice. we must be clear that infringement proceedings should not be prolonged in matters of protection of fundamental rights or environmental or health rights, for example. finally, i would ask that we have access to all possible documentation on open inquiry procedures, that they be based on petitions and that the involvement of the other parliamentary committees in this house be strengthened when we ask the committee on petitions to report on the issues that also affect them.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament mr president, this report on the annual deliberations of the committee on petitions in 2017 highlights our committee's most important task: to be the bridge between citizens and the european institutions. the report underlines the strong concern of europeans and europeans about environmental issues, water, air quality in our cities, but also issues such as railway safety. it should be remembered that on 17 january there were victims in the worst accident in european history in the last 25 years, the accident in santiago de compostela in my country. for the future, i think it is important that we have a strengthened committee on petitions, where it is even more obvious that the role of the committee should be the centre where complainants can express their concerns to their representatives. the commission should be more easily accessible and transparent in dealing with complaints. it is also very important that we as meps can see and hear the hopes on the ground and invite petitioners to brussels to present their cases at the meetings which are at the heart of our work in this committee in the european parliament. i came to this parliament on 1 march and had the very clear idea of returning to this parliamentary committee because it is the best in the european parliament.
member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mrs angelika mlinar. thank you very much for all the work done with the fictitious rapporteurs, and thank you also for the strong support you have given us. i would like to thank the members of the committee on industry, research and energy for their massive vote in favour of the report on the establishment of the digital europe programme for the period 2021-2027. this vote also reflects for us the importance and necessity of this programme for the future of our citizens, our businesses and our european leadership. for the first time, we have proposed a digital agenda in an eu budget that puts priorities at the forefront, building on what we have already achieved in the digital single market strategy, but also on a vision, a very clear ambition to continue together to maximise the benefits of digital transformation, both for our citizens, our businesses and for the public administrations of the union. so we have sort of set the stage, we have set the stage with the establishment of eurohpc, the high performance computing joint undertaking, with the proposal for a european network of cybersecurity competence centres, as well as a new competence centre for industry, technology and research in cybersecurity. this 'digital europe' programme is essential. we must act now, without further delay, and give europe back the tools to ensure its digital leadership. to do this, let us be clear, member states on their own will not be able to cope with the scale of change and investment needed to compete globally. the key word here is union. together, let us put our resources at the service of the common european interest. we can take the reins of this digital transformation and reap the benefits. it is in this context that the digital europe programme aims to strengthen digital investments in key areas such as artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, high performance computing and advanced digital skills. you know how much this is important to me. but our european approach is to put new technologies at the service of all our citizens, our businesses and public administrations. the example of the digital innovation hubs network is a good example of how all these benefits should reach all regions and all people living in both rural and urban areas. now is the time to put the word into action: we need to dramatically increase our investment in the digital future, this is essential to regain our leadership. at this level, ambition will not be enough, we will need to continue to have broad and solid support, including financial support. we take note that today's report indicates that the budget proposed by the commission should be considered as the minimum amount for the digital europe programme to be successful. yes, ladies and gentlemen, like you, we are convinced that the digital europe programme, the horizon europe programme and the connecting europe facility will enable us to support and encourage the digital transformation of our european society in a synergistic and complementary way. it is time to act together, to achieve our goals together and to defend together the interests of our citizens, our businesses and our economy.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, i’d like to thank the commissioner for being here with us today, and thank you very much, too, to the rapporteur – she was an excellent rapporteur and our cooperation with her was excellent. we now have the first ever digital europe programme, and this is something we can congratulate ourselves on. this programme, by investing eur 9.22 billion, will align the next long-term eu budget 2021-2027 with the increasing digital challenges, providing the digital capabilities needed to seize all the opportunities of the digital transformation. who will the main beneficiaries be? the main beneficiaries will be european companies and especially smes, setting a precedent for future initiatives. the key capacities that the programme will focus on concerns high-performance computing, artificial intelligence, cybersecurity, advanced digital skills, and ensuring its wide use and accessibility across the economy and society by businesses and the public sector alike. european smes will have the possibility to use our future super-computers to perform their data analysis and to exploit the future ai capacity that will lead to innovative businesses and services. we must not forget that currently the super-computers we use extensively, paying very high fees, are located in third countries. from now on that will be possible here in the european union. this is a real opportunity to put europe in the front line of the digital transformation. now our economy can be the most competitive in the world.
in the name of the gue/ngl group. mr president, since european governments decided in 2016 to close the borders of the balkan route, thousands of people have been trapped in bosnia and herzegovina in inhumane conditions. we must denounce the way the croatian authorities are acting at the border. from january to august this year alone, unhcr has recorded more than 2 500 unlawful returns. human rights watch has denounced violence by security forces against migrants. six people have died as a result of this violence in recent years, the latest being a six-year-old girl. and the activist organizations that fight this with solidarity are being criminalized with police harassment and intimidation. but the most serious thing is that what the croatian government is actually doing is in perfect harmony with the european commission's migration policies. what they are doing in croatia is not so different from what is happening at the other external borders of the european union. for example, in ceuta and melilla the situation of violence at the fences and the hot returns are also being denounced by the organizations. in viktor orbán's hungary, violence and violation of human rights are systematic. and on the great external border, which is the mediterranean sea, the policy of the european union is to let them drown. and of course all this is against european law. the problem is that the european union's own migration policy project violates its own rules. so the responsibility is croatia's, spain's, hungary's or italy's, but not only. the european union model of closing borders, of not letting anyone set foot in europe, of wanting to deport everyone, is what gives shelter to these kinds of policies that lead to the deaths of thousands of people. it is the model of the european union. the european commission, the member states and the meps who vote in favour of these policies are responsible. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
blue card reply i am not accusing croatia, i am accusing all the governments of the european union and the european commission of immigration policies that are absolutely inhumane and unsolidarist. the responsibility is not only croatia's, spain's or italy's, or any particular country's. it's all of us. the whole european commission, the council and - as i have also said - the majority of meps who have voted in favour of these policies. (the speaker agrees to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the answer is 'blue card'. i cannot be accused of being a populist or of trying to win votes on the immigration issue when in a debate on the situation of migrants he talks about crime. that is populism. in fact, it's much more than populism. that's right-wing. talking about crime and migration all together in the same debate is what is giving wings to racist and xenophobic positions.
mr president, the number of refugee and migrant arrivals in bosnia and herzegovina during 2018 has increased significantly, with more than 22 400 arrivals recorded since the beginning of the year and compared to 755 in 2017. many are trying to move through bosnia and herzegovina to enter the union, crossing croatia. however, others remain in the country. the unhcr estimates that around 6 000 people were present on bosnian territory in mid-november 2018. local communities and international organizations have taken over basic assistance: food, shelter, primary health care. however, the country's capacities are overwhelmed. since june, the union has mobilised over eur 9.2 million in immediate and medium-term assistance. this makes it easier, but not much easier, to access essential services that are far from the migration routes. the western balkans route is mainly used by afghans, pakistanis and syrians. throughout 2018, the migratory pressure on this route has been increasing, which has led to organized crime groups increasing their criminal activity around human trafficking. this is one of the main reasons why europol has identified this region as a priority for increased cooperation. our charter of fundamental rights, the universal declaration of human rights, the 1951 convention relating to the status of refugees and the 1967 protocol commit us to this. and they commit us, fundamentally, from a humanitarian point of view. i applaud the states which signed the global compact on migration in marrakesh. all this commits the european union as a defender of human rights unequivocally.
the question of the 'blue card'. i would like to ask mr dzhambazki a question about this insistent reference to encouraging illegal immigration. is there anyone who wants illegal immigration in europe? because it seems that some say that others want it, those of us who insist on respect for human rights, on the proper use of european union funds - which are those of all europeans - to ensure that international law is respected, that borders are properly ordered, that the agreements we have are respected, including the agreement on the reception of refugees. who wants illegal immigration in europe, mr dzhambazki?
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, the west is living in a feminist moment. a moment of nonconformity with the inequality that women suffer. but our problems should not blind us to what is happening elsewhere. in iran, when a woman takes off her hijab, she is conducting a political protest. it's a heroic act, because they know they can end up in jail, but not just them. nasrin sotoudeh, our 2012 sakharov prize laureate, is a human rights lawyer in iran and has been imprisoned again. this time, for defending women who took off their hijabs in public. if we truly believe in freedom and equality, we will do everything in our power to free nasrin. if we really believe in human rights, we will work to clarify the tens of thousands of executions and disappearances carried out by the iranian regime since the 1980s. the feminist cause and the humanitarian cause are universal. human rights are the rights of human beings, of all human beings. europe is undoubtedly called upon to take the lead in these areas and must do so.
mr president, yesterday this european parliament awarded its sakharov prize for this year. but in 2012 it was obtained by nasrin sotoudeh, a lawyer who defends the cause of human rights in a context of enormous difficulty: iran governed by the supreme leader ali khamenei, to whom the institute of human rights of the international bar association has addressed in 2018 a letter requiring the immediate release of nasrin sotoudeh, who has been imprisoned on several occasions for defending just causes of freedom of expression and especially women's rights. as a former minister of justice and as a former chairman of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and always committed to the right of defence, to the legal profession and in particular to this woman, who defends the right of women to be free from the hijab in a highly repressive context, we demand from iran her immediate release.
author. – mr president, this compromise resolution, which will enjoy large support in the house, is very clear on two fronts. first, it’s the strongest condemnation to date by parliament of the horrible, terrible human rights situation in egypt. secondly, it calls on the eu, in a very clear way, to step up its response and to prioritise the situation of human rights defenders in its dialogue with egypt. parliament is saying loud and clear: no more eu ‘business as usual’ with a regime that has wiped out its entire human rights community. taking up a proposal from my group, the motion calls on the eu to envisage targeted sanctions against individuals for their responsibility in the current repression. we will be carefully monitoring the eu-egypt association council in a few days and we expect concrete action on the release of the individual human rights defenders listed in the motion.
author. mr. president, in 2013 the egyptian army killed hundreds of people protesting in rabaa square. while none of those responsible has been brought to justice, 75 of those protesters have been sentenced to death. this is yet another example of the impunity and general repression that is being experienced in egypt. a country where in the last five years 65 000 political prisoners have been imprisoned and more than 1 500 people have been victims of enforced disappearance. a country where human rights defenders are being persecuted: women like amal fathy, imprisoned for denouncing the government's failure to protect women who, like her, have been victims of sexual violence. a country that is forcibly deporting asylum seekers from sudan, eritrea, yemen or syria. a country which, according to the european union, is an example to follow in the matter of migration and, of course, a great trading partner. we call on the european union to react, to suspend the association agreement and all cooperation programmes agreed with the egyptian authorities until basic democratic rights are respected. we call on member states, such as spain, to stop selling arms and surveillance equipment to egypt because they are being used to repress civil society. once again, we repeat in this house: economic and commercial interests cannot take precedence over human rights.
on behalf of the green group, mr president, commissioner, the european union is continuing to negotiate with egypt, a country which persecutes and kills human rights defenders. we have seen it there and so we have passed it on to the high representative in the framework of the political dialogue. this resolution is an urgent call to european states to stop the sale of security equipment technology to egypt, to order the suspension of all military support. but this has not happened, because we see how the member states continue to sell guns, tanks and torture equipment that injure and kill the egyptian population; also to human rights defenders. like the spanish state, for example, which closed a business of arms sales for more than one hundred million euros between 2016 and 2017. how many human rights defenders and civilians are going to continue to be killed, in this case also by the bombs of the spanish state? what is the commission doing to stop this blood trade which is against the egyptian people and, above all, which is violating all international and human rights standards?
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, this is more than a debate, it is a denunciation of the serious deterioration of human rights that is happening in tanzania. a deterioration which is visible to all of us who have a certain sensitivity to the protection of fundamental human rights. in the face of this accelerated deterioration, this persecution, almost hunting, against the lgbti group, it is our duty to ask the member states and the commission to urgently review our relations with tanzania; to demand from tanzania a change in its repressive legislation, its absolutely degrading legislation, also in its action, against the most vulnerable groups: gays, lesbians, transsexuals, also women, girls. and so we are here to demand that the council approach relations with tanzania from this perspective. respect for human rights; respect for minorities; respect for all sexual choices; and, if not, urgent review of our relations with that country.
the question of the 'blue card'. mr. sośnierz, i wanted to ask you: do you have daughters? do you have sisters? do you have a mother? you say you don't care what happens to women there. i care, and most of us here do. and what you say about it not changing anything is not true. i guarantee you that i have many venezuelan friends, friends in exile, people who are threatened, people who are in prison and tell us: "please, do not be silent, do not be silent". because any cause has to be spoken for with a loudspeaker and we here are the loudspeakers for the people who have no voice. we are lending our voice to them, because the citizens have elected us to speak on their behalf, on behalf of human rights.
mr president, the european parliament has voted in this plenary session on the free trade agreement between the european union and japan. but i would venture to say that 99% of the citizens of europe have no idea. and they have no idea why the european commission wanted it that way. they want to negotiate our rights and the planet without anyone knowing so that no one can question it. but this agreement is very much like the ttip that was being negotiated with the united states, or the one that was signed with canada: all of these agreements where multinationals have more power than states through arbitration tribunals, where public services have been privatized or where our environmental standards are useless when japan is one of the main markets for timber from illegal logging or protected species fishing. the european commission insists on a model which harms small producers, workers and smes, but which gives good benefits to large corporations. and it does so with the support of the european people's party, the liberals and the social democrats, and also the psoe. the european left voted against.
mr president, the approval of jefta will have tremendous consequences for the citizens. it is the most ambitious treaty negotiated by the european union, but it cannot be debated or amended in national parliaments. this is particularly scandalous because the process has been really opaque and the european commission, in a fit of its supposed transparency, has only consulted the big business lobbies and the corporate lobbies. this is how they manage to impose, as already happened with ceta, the negative list approach to services, severely limiting the powers of governments to manage public services such as health, education and transport, or to encourage their remunicipalization. jefta will grant unprecedented privileges to transnational corporations, including a mechanism that allows them to influence governments through legislation. this is an intolerable reduction of democracy again, of labour rights and of the ability to fight financial speculation, for example. that is why we voted no to jefta.
mr president, the connecting europe facility promotes an energy model at the opposite end of what we need in this time of climate emergency. it promotes an unsustainable centralised model with mega-infrastructures such as the midcat gas pipeline, the tav or, for example, the electricity interconnection of the bay of biscay. far from stopping funding fossil fuels, this mechanism will continue to finance the misnamed natural gas, which will continue to receive billions of euros when we know that its effects on the climate are very, very harmful. nor does this fund put the principle of energy efficiency first, which is what we should be doing by reducing our consumption first rather than promoting infrastructure whose justification is more than doubtful. in addition, the money to finance this mechanism will come from the reduction of the cohesion fund, the main instrument for correcting territorial inequalities within the european union. finally, it is advocating the militarization of transport infrastructure, with the introduction of a pernicious dual use of civil and military: its way of bringing in the military dimension.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, the connecting europe facility promotes an energy model at the opposite end of what we need in this time of global climate emergency. it promotes a centralized and unsustainable model with mega-infrastructures such as gas pipelines like the midcat, or the tav, or the electricity interconnection of the bay of biscay. far from stopping funding fossil fuels, the misnamed natural gas will continue to receive billions of euros, when we know that its effects on the climate are very, very harmful. nor does this fund put forward the principle of energy efficiency, which we should apply by reducing our consumption first rather than promoting mega-infrastructures whose justification is often more than doubtful. in addition, the money to finance the mechanism will come from the reduction of the european cohesion fund, the main instrument for correcting territorial inequalities within the european union. finally, there is a call for the militarization of transport infrastructure, introducing dual use, civil and military. and this is their way of bringing the military dimension into the sectoral and civil policies of the union through the back door. we are in favour of a europe of peace and of the ecological transition. that is why we voted against this mechanism.
i am speaking on behalf of the gue/ngl group. mr president, there are more than 6 000 rare diseases affecting 30 million european citizens. they are often chronic and life-threatening. as eurordis says, rare diseases are rare, but rare disease patients are many. there are also many problems they face: among others, lack of access to correct diagnoses and information; social, educational, employment, leisure, etc. consequences; inequality in the availability of treatments and high cost of medicines. the list of problems is very long, but the solutions boil down to providing sufficient resources to implement public health policies. strengthening public health is essential because it is the only guarantee that all patients can have access to diagnoses and treatments under equal conditions and not depending on the financial resources of individuals or families. because this is precisely what creates additional inequality. it is also essential to provide resources for research, and - i repeat - it must be public: we cannot leave the solution of these problems to private research, precisely because of the costs it entails. and also resources for non-medical care: for dependents, family support, social support, for rehabilitation and a long list of others. we have the opportunity to promote these public policies, which are necessary so that patients do not have to suffer, in addition to isolation and vulnerability, inequality and indifference.
i am very pleased that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to express his concern about the situation in the european union. one of the biggest confusions is the concept of rarity. rare diseases are rare, but people with rare diseases are many in europe. i know many families who pay high costs, who have to even campaign in the media to speak out, to ask for money to pay for these treatments. it's hard for these families; they feel alone. one disease may affect only a handful of patients, but another may affect a total of 300 000 people or 10% of the european population. the commission recognised that those affected are particularly isolated and vulnerable. what is important, as the commissioner has said, is to codify, inventory these rare diseases, investigate and extend the centres specialised in european reference networks for rare diseases. and also, for us, we need more funding, possibilities to cooperate across borders, to cooperate across countries and to have these appropriate treatments. i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his report, which is a very good report, and i would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i welcome this debate brought here by the committee on agriculture and rural development to discuss the situation of african swine fever. the timing is not the best, but it does not detract from the importance of this debate: it is important that it takes place when it does. we cannot say, commissioner, that the commission is not doing things. he's making them. but sometimes they're not being explained well or they're being explained inadequately. i say this because we have had representatives of the responsible directorate-general in the committee on agriculture and rural development who have given us more uncertainty than certainty. i say this because you have explained today - and i understood you correctly - in your speech everything that is being done, everything that is possible, but it is not always being communicated, and that, in terms of trade, in terms of the sector, creates a lot of uncertainties. it has sometimes been reported that the spread via wild boar is very difficult to control... we must convey that things are being done and assurance that we will face this situation. i am spanish, and besides andalusia, we have suffered from african swine fever for 40 years. we eradicated it. that takes money and a lot of work. and now what is needed - and this is why this debate is timely - is a truly comprehensive european strategy, beyond its competence, because transport and other elements are involved. we therefore need a european strategy, not just for animal health, but for all animal health. in my opinion, there are three moments. one, the moment of infection: it enters the baltic countries from russia and infects the baltic countries and a third of poland. poland is keeping things under control, and three quarters of polish territory is still free of ppas, but the situation in the baltic states does not seem to be so controlled. secondly, the situation in romania. mr buddha has spoken well, he is from there and he is concerned about this situation. there, in romania, the outbreak has occurred in a major way. in my humble opinion, i think it is because of their production system, which is perhaps very old, and their veterinary system, which is in my opinion deficient. we must help romania. because in the end, if romania is not helped, the problem will be with all of us. the problem of the production and veterinary systems must therefore be solved with european funds from all of us, not just the second pillar and the aid from the second pillar of the cap. we need more funds and romania needs them to make a proper conversion. and thirdly, the situation in belgium, the czech republic and hungary, where there are isolated outbreaks in wild boars and we will see how they develop. i think the most important concern, apart from progress, is the situation in romania. that is why i insist that we must help with extraordinary funds to resolve this situation with an integrated strategy, because the problem is general. you can't tell them that eradication is very difficult; it's difficult, it's true, it's a virus and it's complicated. we in spain know this well, but it can be done. in fact, poland is also tackling this problem well. we therefore need this strategy, because european producers have made great strides, they have evolved in the pig sector, they are very competitive, and to have an asf infection means, of course, to sink again the export possibilities of all countries. and of course we in spain are concerned, but we are concerned about any situation that occurs in europe, because this sector can be ruined. what will happen to the baltic and polish producers affected? what will they have to endure? i don't know, i hope they're helped, because the situation isn't provoked either. this is not a situation that the producers are causing. it's all connected. and you have referred to it: travellers, tourists, transport operators, they all intervene in this situation. so let's get on with it. and i understand, commissioner - and i am concluding - that you are asking me: and with what funds? with what funds can we act? i mean, beyond the cap. because there are not enough funds for rural development in romania to fix this. they need extra help. and he says, "with what funds?" i would like to see a veterinary fund which does not increase, a multiannual financial framework with cuts in animal health, and i can certainly understand why you say that the situation with the funds is very difficult. let us all call for more funds and more resources for animal health and not for them to be frozen or reduced, as is happening in the last financial frameworks. the second point which the commission must ask for, besides funds, is the firm defence of our system of regionalization vis-à-vis third countries. it is also an opportunity because we have large exports and we do not want them to fall. the only thing i would encourage you to do, commissioner, is to look for funds, to help resolve what i believe is the most serious situation, that of romania, and to clearly address this situation with a comprehensive strategy.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, african swine fever represents a serious threat to pig farming with indirect devastating economic losses for the pig sector due to rapid and complete third country bans on pigs, pigmeat and pig products imported from countries where the disease is detected. commissioner, in our group we are very worried about how the commission will ensure robust coordination between all competent authorities in the areas of animal health, well—being, road transport and customs. you mentioned the budget and the financial assistance for farmers affected, who are in the front line of the problem, but how can the commission take immediate measures to stop the disease from spreading? we are also worried about how the commission is tackling disproportionate bans adopted by certain third countries on exports of pigs, pigmeat and pig products from the ten eu member states affected.
mr president, commissioner, african swine fever is a serious threat to the pig sector, as it is deadly to pigs and wild boars and causes significant losses to our livestock. it already affects ten member states. knowing how easy it is to spread in a market without borders, the priority must be to have no more outlets. controls must be maximized to prevent further spread of the virus. commissioner, my country - spain - is the leader in pig production, with a sector worth €7 billion. a flare in spain would be lethal. i know you're doing everything in your power to protect healthy farms. on the other hand, it is clear that a global approach is needed to end this disease. it is important that the commission coordinates closely with the other authorities in order to give the necessary information to the farmers. the aim is to enable those on the front lines to take action. and of course, we do not lose sight of the hopeful news coming from spain. if all goes well, the vaccine of dr. sánchez vizcaíno, from the region of murcia - which is my region, for more information - could be the key to eradicating this epidemic. i hope that your research will have the full support of the european commission.
