madam president, firstly, like my colleague mamikins, i would like to express my gratitude to those of you who supported non-citizens in estonia and latvia during the last plenary vote. secondly, i would like to draw your attention to the debate regarding the resolution on protection of minority rights. the problem is the same: voting rights of so-called aliens. i would like to counter disinformation that is spreading in this house. some colleagues argue that, according to the constitution, the right to vote in estonia is an integral part of citizenship. this is not true. the estonian constitution was adopted 12 years before we joined the european union. there is not a single word about european elections in this document. it speaks only about elections to the national parliament and referendums. the second argument is that citizenship is an exclusive competence of member states and there is no ground for us to intervene in this case. this is not true either. the fact that today we do not have an efficient tool to solve the problem cannot be an excuse for not taking a position on an issue which is so important for more than 300 000 non-citizens living in the baltic states.
in writing. progress was made in several important areas during the estonian presidency. as one of the recurring themes of the presidency was digitalisation, it is not surprising that estonia aimed to bring digital benefits to europe to facilitate cross-border transactions and make the eu more competitive in the world. the first digital signature of an eu act was carried out, a successful digital summit was held in tallinn and agreements were reached on both geo-blocking and the free movement of data. these regulations remove location-based restrictions in e-commerce as well as unjustified location-based restrictions on data. it is hoped that the estonian presidency has been able to generate interest and will to develop digital issues progressively in the eu and in the member states. estonia was also successful on environmental and energy issues, agreeing on an emissions trading system, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and all electricity market legislation under the fourth clean energy package. in agriculture, estonia can be proud of the omnibus regulation on the mid-term review of agricultural policy, which set out new crisis management measures. the elements of simplification and greater flexibility for member states are very important here, as they benefit young farmers, who are increasingly needed in rural areas. the commission also adopted a communication on the implementation of the eu's new strategy for the environment (2007-2013) and the eu's new strategy for the environment (2008-2013). all these achievements have a long-term impact on the european union and its member states. of course, there is still much work to be done, but estonia can certainly be proud of its first presidency.
in writing. during the estonian presidency, a number of important issues were taken forward. progress was made, inter alia, in the area of eu defence cooperation, where the establishment of a permanent structured defence cooperation (pesco) was agreed. there are conflicts and wars around europe that pose a direct threat to security. closer european defence cooperation is essential and the timing is right. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states and the commission. the cyber training in estonia at the level of eu defence ministers was a good example of how to build mutual trust and raise awareness among member states about cyber threats. it is important that the achievements in the field of cyber security continue to be promoted. i am therefore pleased that the european parliament is also preparing a report on cybersecurity.
madam president, dictatorships will never last. they are bound to end sooner or later. but i think the latest surprise demonstrations, which included more than 140 cities in iran, reminded us of this possibility. because what is interesting is the scope and message of the demonstrators. protests against the high cost of living developed within two days into political demands, into the slogans ‘down with dictatorship’ and ‘we want iran back’. what is significant is that iranians made no difference between so—called conservatives and moderates. they targeted the regime as such. i think the lesson for the eu is that counting on reformed dictators with a human face is betting on a dead horse. the nuclear deal should, of course, be kept intact despite all the problems. i am firmly for this. but, at the same time, the deal cannot be seen as the only centre for our relations with iran. when a regime continues to use some breathing space from sanctions not to address the burning problems of their citizens – half of them need state support and 10 million out of a population of 80 million are jobless – but instead to speed up the export of terrorism, conflicts and ballistic missiles, then as my colleague, mrs schaake put it, they are playing a toxic role. i am also worried about the sharp contrast between the us and eu reaction. i think this is very important. whereas the us administration and congress, on a bipartisan level, sided immediately with the iranian people, the eu message has been weak and vague. it has been said that in a spirit of respect we expect all concerned to refrain from violence. the regime has never refrained from violence during the last 39 years. so our attitude must be very firm and clear. it must be based on conditionality: release all prisoners, allow free demonstrations, and stop spreading ballistic missiles. our understanding should be that the iranian people are fed up with their government. they need a change of regime. we should also prepare for this option.
madam president, the extensive and unnecessary use of force against peaceful protesters in iran by the security forces and riot police is unacceptable. the riots took place because iranian people were expecting life to get better when sanctions were lifted after the deal in 2015 over iran’s nuclear programme, and were expecting to get more political rights and freedoms. however, economic mismanagement and corruption has left iranians feeling cheated of their hopes for a better life. unemployment is high; the economy is not doing well. years of political, economic and social grievances sent iranians into the streets in the largest protests since 2009. instead of channelling this money from the lifting of sanctions into the economy and the social system, and improving the lives of the iranian people, iranian leaders have opted for spending the money elsewhere, mainly developing iran’s political and military ambitions in nearby countries such as syria, lebanon, iraq, yemen and others. people must be given a chance to have peaceful protests. investigations must be made into the unlawful use of firearms against unarmed demonstrators, and also into prison deaths. detainees must be protected from possible ill—treatment and torture. society in iran must be allowed more freedom.
mr president, this is not a point of order, and i understand colleagues hate their rapporteurs grandstanding in the midst of votes, but it’s important. we have two very good candidates to be nominated to the court of auditors in luxembourg, and they both deserve at least mentioning before a vote, and ms eva linström from sweden, among many other good qualities, also improves the gender balance in luxembourg.... (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur. – mr president, i apologise for my first intervention. statistically obviously i get two speeches in plenary now! the important thing is that we have two very good candidates, as i said, from sweden and from ireland, but in particular, i would like to draw your attention to the irish method, which was an open public competition for the nomination. i would like to make an oral amendment to this report. i shall read it: ‘calls on member states to pay attention to, and if possible take inspiration from, the open competition model used by ireland when selecting their nominees;’.
mr president, i’m listening to this debate with a strong feeling of déjà vu. i was born in the soviet union and when i was a child i heard about anti-soviet propaganda each and every day. if there were no meat or coffee, books or cars, we always knew who was guilty: western capitalism and, personally, ronald reagan. today when the european union is facing challenges, crisis in catalonia, problems with democratic institutions in a member state or a low level of trust in europe as such, some of my colleagues know exactly who is guilty: anti-european propaganda and, personally, vladimir putin. as a former journalist, i cannot agree with such a black and white approach. and the main solution i see in terms of counter-propaganda is an honest, open and professional media. a media which is free from censorship and which is not regulated or directed by politicians. we should not make the mistakes of soviet leaders but today, sorry, i have a strong feeling that we’re dangerously close to that. and of course i fully agree with mr van baalen, the media have to be transparent. but it also concerns statcom, where you will find not a single name of these guys who are writing this information review.
mr president, tensions between western societies and russia have given rise to the flow of fake news that aims to weaken the european union. europe must become less naive to be able to defend itself given this surge of false news and propaganda. a few examples. most european hotels show the tv russia today alongside ordinary channels. some months ago, in this very same european parliament building an exhibition was opened showcasing russian views on the events in syria. would anyone imagine having the same kind of eu exhibition in the russian state duma right now? also, european journalists have to be very professional. there is a need to go back to classical journalism rules. all facts must be checked. you must be critical of your sources and no russian media channel should be considered a trustworthy source. one must be able to distinguish between propaganda channels and real journalists, and it is not that difficult actually. so europe itself can do a lot to protect its societies from propaganda attacks by using common sense and being less naive.
mr president, i would like to thank first of all our stratcom team for their excellent efforts which should be taken extremely seriously by our governments and foreign policy leaders. still, they are too small and need much more funding. but one field where russian propaganda has had a lasting effect: it has succeeded to make us believe that the russian duma is freely elected, not a putin selected body and that by fostering personal contacts with duma members we can exercise some influence on the conduct of russian rulers. i think the opposite is true: duma members are instruments of putin par excellence. they have a very clear programme and they are ten times better prepared for spreading disinformation among european parliamentarians than we are. we should keep this in mind.
in writing. – as we all know, fighting the influences of russian propaganda, or any disinformation campaign for that matter, is not exactly straightforward. since we do not want a ministry of truth, we need a more sophisticated approach. i myself am not susceptible to russian propaganda, having lived half of my life in the soviet union i have no trouble discerning facts from fiction, but there are plenty of impressionable people out there, especially on the internet. some studies indicate that six out of ten people do not even read the articles that they share and repost on social media. the geier / tarand report on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2017 decided to create ‘a strategic communication capacity budget item in line with the european council conclusions of march 2015 and equip the eeas with adequate staff and tools to face the challenge of disinformation from third states and non-state actors.’ we might indeed need to provide the eeas east stratcom task force with more financial and human resources, but before we do that i would like to see a thorough impact assessment of their work so far, especially considering the complex nature of combating this problem.
first vice-president of the commission. – madam president, i can be brief. seldom in my three years in this parliament have i experienced such a unity of purpose. everyone agrees that we need to do something; perhaps not everyone agrees on the measures we need to take or the speed with which we will do it. but let me give you one guarantee: this commission will try everything it can to put on your table legislative proposals in those areas where we can come up with legislation. we’ve already started with reach on micro-plastics in cosmetics, paints and in detergents, but sometimes we need more analysis. how are we going to deal with micro-plastics coming out of tyres on cars or coming out of our clothes when we wash them? these are complicated things and we want to make sure we get the science right before we put legislation on the table. and as far as packaging is concerned, we will be extremely ambitious and we will come up with legislation, and we want this to happen very quickly. but we’ve also seen that the unity of purpose in this room is shared by industry: by and large they want to be part of this. they know they need to be part of this. we need to create the circumstances for them to be part of it and for it to become a profitable business. but i believe that plastics will continue to have a huge role in our society. i’m not an enemy of plastics. plastics can be fantastic if they’re the right plastics, and we need to get the science right. that’s why we’re putting eur 100 million extra into research through horizon 2020. so i see the message you gave to us today as a strong endorsement for this commission to continue along this path. this is what we will do – and this is a promise i make on behalf of all of us – we will make proposals for legislation where we can. but we will not rush into things, especially if we haven’t got the science right yet or if we can still wait for industry to do its part. if industry won’t do its part we will step in. but i have the feeling that given the sense of urgency that is shared by industry, we will be able to do a lot of things together as well. if we do this in a holistic way, if it is part of our circular economy, if it is part of the fourth industrial revolution and the benefits it brings, we will lead in the world and make sure that the health of our children and grandchildren will not suffer and our environment will not suffer more than it already does as a result of the waste of plastics. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, thank you very much for your strong support. this debate made me really happy, and i do believe that we can deliver. thank you very much for the ideas. i have four points: firstly, why do recycled plastics not account for more than 6% of the entire volume of plastics used? it is because we don’t have european-wide quality standards for recycled plastic, and this we will change. we need a single market tool for recycled plastics. why don’t we recycle more packaging waste, plastic bags and waste? because there are too many different types of plastics used for packaging. so that’s why we want to change this. we need quality standards and other standards in order to create a more harmonised approach for producing plastic packages. this enables us to create a single market. these two measures enable us to create a well-functioning single market for plastics. secondly, we also need to look at the regulatory framework for biodegradable and compostable plastics. you are right that bio products can be an alternative source for producing more sustainable plastics, but we need to get this regulatory framework right. our consumers must also know that you cannot mix biodegradable plastics with oil-based plastics, otherwise recycling is impossible. so we have to encourage or empower consumers. thirdly, we certainly need more innovations. horizon 2020 has already financed plastic-related innovations worth eur 250 million during this period, and an additional 100 million will be made available. furthermore, fc and structural funds can provide public financing. but even more money is available in private sector if the regulatory environment is right, and that’s why we have to concentrate on this part of our work. fourthly, on china. i must say that i could not blame china at all when they decided to ban plastic waste imports. i must congratulate them. it’s actually a good incentive for europe to find solutions, sustainable solutions. how to deal with plastic waste. it puts pressure on us, but it also create incentives. it will change the market, and this is what we need: a sustainable market where profit is coming from more sustainable behaviour. finally, thank you once again very much for an excellent discussion. (applause)
in writing. – eight million tons of plastic end up in the sea every year; 80% of litter in the oceans is plastic; 85% of beach litter is plastic. according to un estimates, by 2050 practically 100% of seabirds will have ingested plastic, and around 600 marine species will be harmed by plastic. i welcome the commission’s strategy to address the usage of plastic in europe, where 25 million tons of plastic waste is generated every year, of which only 30% is collected for recycling. whereas this strategy is a step in right direction, it still fails to target the problem as a whole. the ec strategy focuses primarily on circular economy, on developing bio-degradable and reusable plastic. we eat plastic, we breathe in plastic in the environment. plastic is everywhere. it should be a european goal to dramatically reduce the usage of plastic to a minimum, especially when it comes to packaging. it is not enough merely to ban single-use plastic bags. i call on the commission to go far beyond its current proposal and offer a vision of a plastic-free europe. we need an ambitious goal to save the next generation from drowning in a new ocean of waste.
author. – madam president, 30 million christians live in the northern part of nigeria, where peace and stability have been dramatically undermined by ongoing attacks, murders and kidnappings by the islamist boko haram group since 2009. during this period, more than 20 000 people, belonging to different denominations, have been killed and 2 million have been displaced. according to the ngo open doors, two-thirds of the 3 000 christians killed in the world in one year, up to november 2017, met violent deaths in nigeria. the latest attack happened in omoku, with 14 killed and many wounded after a new year’s eve church service. i urgently call on the nigerian authorities to increase efforts to protect the christian community and end violence there. decisive efforts are needed to defend citizens’ rights to worship freely and in safety.
in writing. female genital mutilation is still extremely common in many societies, while being unhealthy, dangerous, and humiliating. although the incidence of genital mutilation has decreased, it is still a major problem that needs to be addressed. the resolution calls for adherence to the un 2030 agenda for sustainable development to combat gender-based violence and for attention to be paid to the problem, in particular in areas such as health, social work, asylum procedures, education, law enforcement, child protection and media and communication. to raise awareness and eliminate the problem in these societies, it is important to educate people, to do prevention and explanation work. in addition to girls' and women's education, it is important to train social and medical workers, community and religious leaders, and police and law enforcement officials. and it is of course important that eu member states which have not yet ratified the council of europe's istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women do so without delay.
mr president, i would like to welcome the commission’s balkan strategy because it’s about our common strategic interests, but it also needs a transformation from both sides. the western balkans is not a neutral ground. fake alternatives are promised by russia, china, turkey, saudi arabia and islamist. the only chance for permanent stability and economic reforms, and also for reconciliation, is european integration. i agree with commissioner mogherini that the western balkan region will succeed together or fail together and this will be our shared opportunity and responsibility. however, strengthening democracy and the rule of law remains the concrete responsibility of each country in that region. progress and stability cannot be achieved at the expense of good governance by neglecting the rule of law and respect for democratic procedure. i think the best chance to catch up with the 2025 target is a practical demonstration of political will to cooperate nationally in advancing the common eu goal. my final key word is about reconciliation, and here it is opportune to make reminder also of the former macedonian president, boris trajkovski, who took a personal lead to bring the different balkan leaders together for reconciliation, friendship and mutual understanding.
mr president, it is high time for change because zimbabwe since 2000 has struggled to feed its people. poverty and unemployment are endemic. the history of zimbabwe has been a history of mismanaged and misused opportunities. about three million people have fled the country, and politically-motivated violence since 1980 has taken the lives of approximately 200 000 people. remember that the change is not a revolution. yes, people supported the resignation of mugabe enthusiastically, but now they must be guaranteed that real, lasting democratic change is going to happen. the only way to guarantee the legitimacy of this change is through fair and democratic elections. the future government has to be open to cooperation with different political forces. as it is now, mr mugabe, instead of taking responsibility for numerous crimes, is planning to establish a new political party. important in terms of the legitimacy of the latest events is that millions of zimbabwean citizens abroad, most of them having been forced to leave, should be able to participate freely and easily in the coming elections without having to face excessive bureaucratic obstacles. this should be seen as a litmus test of whether the new leaders are prepared to be leaders of all the nation.
madam president, thank you for this debate which i hope will be fruitful. regional policy is an important aspect of the fight against poverty. in europe there are regions where many more people than the eu average live at or below the poverty line. however, in a particularly bad situation are those regions that suffer from poor quality of eu relations with the european neighbourhood. in my native country, estonia, ida-virumaa county is an example of a territory with such problems. it is a very poor, de-industrialised region, geographically isolated on the eu-russian border and populated by a russian linguistic minority. in such conditions the fight against poverty is also an important security issue. in regions like ida-virumaa the fight against poverty must be comprehensive. for this, both economic restructuring and normalisation of relations with neighbouring russia are needed. i support the expansion of all opportunities to support out of the european structural funds any national policies aimed at the reduction of poverty, and, of course, the implementation of the social pillar. for i strongly believe that poverty causes indifference, and indifference is bad support for protecting european borders.
madam president, it was about time to stop unhealthy practices in europe, practices which cause harm to children, grown-ups and domestic animals. the practice, which was invented to serve the interests of a war economy, a practice introduced by tsar nicholas ii and kaiser wilhelm ii, practices loved by no less than hitler and stalin. so what are we waiting for? what is the problem? let common sense prevail and let’s accept that the laws of nature are more powerful than the laws made by man, even by women and men in this powerful parliament. and to those who believe that by changing the time on our clocks and on our wrists – that’s a shamanist way of thinking – that it can influence the sun to create more light, they are wrong. i’m sorry to say that. but by way of consolation, you will survive without summer time.
in writing. the original idea behind the clock was to save energy. years later, there is no evidence of significant energy savings, but there are examples of how this affects other areas of people's lives, based on studies and polls. watchmaking has negative effects on human health, causing fatigue, migraines, and sleep problems. adapting to the clock is particularly difficult for older adults and for children who are developing sleep disorders that may affect their academic performance. the human body may take from four days to two weeks to adjust to the clock. this practice also affects animal health and the agricultural sector, where the change in time leads to losses in milk sector income. in the transportation sector, too, figures have shown that the number of accidents is higher in the week following the shift, and this may be due to sleep disturbances and difficulty concentrating. citizens have expressed concern about this practice and 62% of people want it to end. there is already a lot of research on this subject and we should of course start with a scientific analysis. however, experience has shown that the clocking system has a negative impact on a large proportion of our citizens, and we therefore have sufficient reason and motivation to put an end to it. human and animal health are of paramount importance and should be the first priority.
author. – madam president, i am happy that all groups are voicing joint concern and protest about the arrest of memorial representative oyub titiev in a place most hostile and deadly to human rights, namely chechnya. chechnya was the original base for putin’s rise to power. and titiev’s case is not just one more violation of basic human rights. memorial is a winner of the sakharov prize. an attack against this organisation and its representatives is an attack against us – a hostile act against the eu’s highest democratic body. however, can we hope to have a serious impact on the behaviour of the russian authorities if our protest is limited to deploring and worrying? political gangsters value only determination and ability to cause real pain. to make a change, all member states need to introduce magnitsky-type lists against those responsible, and we need strong resolve to apply further sanctions if the russian authorities do not allow free elections and free ngos.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, i am appalled that we even have to have a global slavery index. slavery is something that should not exist anymore. even more saddening is the situation in haiti, with child slavery ranking high. one in 15 children lives as a restavek in haiti, and 60% of these are girls. many of them are also sexually abused. it is a consequence of the huge amount of poverty in haiti. the international community can, and must, help the haitians in their fight against poverty and help them make education accessible to each child’s biological family, all over the country. it is imperative to see that resources are spent on community-based services to strengthen the ability of families and communities to care for their own children. the legislation must be put in place to detect and investigate child slavery cases, traffickers must be brought to justice and labour laws must be updated to address child labour. the european union can also help haiti to break free from its cycle of extreme vulnerability to natural disasters and make it more resilient.
in writing. the un international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia, established in 1993, has now closed its doors, having convicted 90 people of crimes including genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. the tribunal has done remarkable work in so many respects. he sent a signal that the international community is committed to ensuring that the most serious crimes and their perpetrators do not go unpunished. also, thanks to the work of the tribunal, there is now a vast archive of what happened in sarajevo, srebrenica and elsewhere, and it will not be forgotten in the future. in addition, the creation of the tribunal has contributed to the creation of a larger system and has increased the understanding and need for the international criminal court. it is important that as many countries as possible accept the jurisdiction of the icc in order to continue to prosecute people for crimes against humanity, and hopefully the fear of prosecution will act as a deterrent in some cases.
member of the commission, in writing. – the commission recalls that under the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making of 13 april 2016 the european parliament, the council and the commission agreed that in order to swiftly and correctly apply union legislation in the member states, the time limit for transposition of directives would be as short as possible and, generally, not exceed two years. in view of the particular timeframe for the application of directive (eu) 2016/97 and of the delegated regulations adopted under this directive, which resulted in difficulties for small and medium-sized insurance companies and insurance distributors to implement the required changes in time for the application date of 23 february 2017, the commission exceptionally submitted a proposal to amend directive (eu) 2016/97 by setting the date for application to 1 october 2016. the co-legislators have also agreed to postpone the transposition date for directive (eu) 2016/97 to 1 july 2018. the commission considers that this cannot be interpreted as creating a precedent, as it must be ensured that all member states are treated equally, but notes that exceptionally it will not stand in the way of this agreement. the commission expects member states to fully comply with their obligation to bring their national transposition measures into force at this date at the latest, in order to give insurance companies and insurance distributors enough time to finalise their preparation and adaptation measures with the full knowledge of the european and national legislative frameworks.
madam president, as a democrat i appreciate the decision of a parliament and very much welcome your vote in favour of the belgian candidate.
, member of the commission. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your report. i hope that you will accept that i have great respect for the commission and for the importance of parliament, and that i am not arrogant, that i do not want to treat you like children, that i take your questions seriously and that i also take the investigation very seriously and calmly. let's show each other respect. secondly, fraud, corruption, scandal, intrigue, personal gain: this was suggested by some speakers. that is why we have, and i have the greatest interest in an objective inquiry in and by the committee on budgetary control. all questions will be answered there. questions received in writing by 5 march date of postmark will be answered by 14 march, apart from today's relatively short consultation period. why am i here? because that is what the conference of presidents decided. it was your house, it was your president, it was your group leaders who, in the face of the disagreement between the ecr and the gue, said by a large majority: 'oettinger's portfolio', so oettinger must come. that's why i'm here. i'm sure if the conference of presidents wanted to speak to my president, he would be there. i am here because the conference of presidents, your conference in preparation, has expected this from the commission. we're living up to your expectations. it was spoken of by secretary-general martin selmayr as a gray bureaucrat. this german selmayr, nobody knows him. i quote! i would like to ask you to do the same for the european parliament, and i would like to ask you to do the same for the european parliament. if the press writes about a monster, it's a matter for the free press. but i think every official, whether he's a junior or a senior, deserves the care and respect of all of us. it is said that the germans are ruling europe again with this decision. i often hear in germany: why is each member state represented by a commissioner? why do the smallest member states have a commissioner like the big ones? i think it's right. i believe that each member state should be represented on an equal footing in the court of justice, the court of auditors and the commission. but please take my word for it: in the large member states, people are asking why only one in 28 member states has a budget of ecu 1 billion. or that in this upper house the small member states have one representative representing ninety thousand inhabitants, while in the large member states one representative represents nine hundred thousand inhabitants. one man, one vote. i think it is right that malta and luxembourg should be represented by six members. but i want to be clear here: on the question of the fair representation of our member states, of nationality, we are all... (interruption of the debate) i have listened to you, madam president. if you have a question in the meantime, i'd be happy to. otherwise, i'm going to ask you to ask your questions in an orderly and comprehensive... i'll answer all your questions, madam president. it was 20 questions. you'll also notice that i'm trying to answer your questions. one thing at a time, patience and respect. the question of nationality is completely secondary to me. i feel like a european citizen, one of 28 in the commission. i think that's why the question of where you were born and the date of your passport should be of less importance. it was said that the commission had not been elected. i strongly disagree. a candidate for commissioner is proposed by his democratically elected government. he's being grilled by this high house on the technical committee. he is elected by this house. he shall be elected by the european council. i know of many member states where you become a national minister without any involvement of the national parliament. for example, if the chancellor is elected in germany in two days, the ministers are chosen by the parties and confirmed by the president. no elections, no hearings, nothing at all - as in the european parliament, for example. i therefore say that the commission is more democratic than many other bodies at national level. i can tell you that this commission did not intend, and does not intend, to organise for all commissioners, after they have left the commission, official cars, drivers, offices. i think this is fake news. we've been over this a number of times, and i can assure you right here: there is no proposal under my responsibility which is to change anything on this subject with regard to all the commissioners after they have left. it has been said by some colleagues that the rules may have been followed to the letter. i think letters are the foundation for following rules. that is why i look forward to the reviews. we followed all the rules to the letter. this is doubted by some. let's check this out. i'm very happy to ask your questions here. but this statute on how to make promotions and appointments in the commission is not a statute for the president. the statute on the basis of which martin selmayr was appointed secretary-general is a statute adopted by this house and the council. it's your statute, it's your letters, it's your rules. if you want to change it, we have to talk about it. i am sorry, but the staff regulations and what the council has decided are the result of the democratic institutions of the council and parliament! this can be changed. but these appointments are not made at the whim of the commission, but on the basis, in the letter and in the spirit, of what has been decided and decided in the european democratic bodies. we have three ways of deciding on the filling of posts and appointment to them: internal recruitment, external recruitment and transfer within the service. all three internal tendering, external tendering and transfer are provided for in our statutes. officer martin selmayr was chief of staff to our president for three years. and that is precisely what the chief of staff is to the director-general, while the chief of staff of a commissioner is to the director-general. and that is why, with your knowledge, he has carried out and fulfilled a task for the last three years which enables him to be elected to the post of secretary-general in the manner we have used. we should not be making a mockery of mr selmayr. he is neither a party man, nor a monster, nor incompetent. so my request is that you give him a chance with your stern eye in the execution of his duties in the coming months. i am sure he will do an excellent job, and that as a servant of president juncker and the commission. i don't think any kind of carving is appropriate here. if you don't like him, if you don't trust him, just say so! but no one in this house has given a negative judgment on his qualifications and his working abilities and his various positions over the last few years. we are happy to meet the committee on budgetary control and will also answer written questions. i am also prepared to come to any of your committees, to your group meetings, to bilateral talks, and i will gladly take the time to answer all your concerns and questions in the coming weeks by giving clear answers with regard to the european statute and to the law and the rule of law to the satisfaction of all those who ask questions.
in writing. – to everyone’s surprise, the eu’s executive body has turned the replacement of its secretary-general into an absolute fiasco. the recent coup d’etat or the so-called “selection” process, is another shameful example of bending the rules and ignoring norms. this “blitzkrieg” method of appointing mr. selmayr, who orchestrated his own selection procedure, the legitimacy of which is questionable at best, is a little reminiscent of the case of former commissioner kallas. the latter was himself at the source of a set of transparency rules, which led to the creation of the transparency register, but a couple of months after his term as a commissioner, he simultaneously held positions as special advisor to the commissioner dombrovskis and consultant at a private-sector software company nortal, without having himself or nortal registered in the transparency register. these, and many other commission’s gimmicks, where they claimed having done things “by the book”, are becoming increasingly detrimental to the integrity of the eu institutions and will be scrutinised in the parliament’s cont committee. but this should not remain the standard, as i call for the college of commissioners to take collective responsibility for such administrative calamities as the abovementioned affairs.
madam president, the estonian presidency managed to focus the attention of the council on the digital dimension. it was good, but not enough. now it is crucial to move ahead, including with the files on the digital market. eu governments need to decisively deepen the single market, especially their services market, and put an end to deep-seated national protectionism, otherwise optimistic talk about deep integration will remain just talk. by the way, i hope that president trump’s hurried decisions could be used as a positive incentive to finally overcome the eu’s traditional cautiousness about our own free trade. regarding the energy market, yesterday the british prime minister declared that there could be no business as usual with russia after their apparent use of chemical weapons on uk territory. how can one think today that there can still be business as usual on nord stream 2? the council cannot continue to avoid this challenge. it is not about differences between the council and commission legal services; it is about protecting eu common interests, exercising our energy solidarity in practice and preventing mr putin from undermining eu security and unity on such vital issues.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, as so often happens in the committee on budgets, i agree with mr deprez – so i could save the next 50 seconds and not say anything – but i will still make four quick points. i appreciate that the rapporteur has brought to the attention of the commission and council the need for a properly managed negotiation process, and i hope this serves as a warning to encourage the full engagement of all parties. we need to do that. i am glad as well that the youth employment initiative, erasmus, research and climate will lead these future negotiations because it was about time to acknowledge that our climate action goals are falling short and it is about time we engaged decisively to achieve them. finally, i am speaking on behalf of my group, but i have a slightly different approach to defence issues. so give us more defence. otherwise, we will all be killed by some kind of nerve agent.
mr president, in today’s le monde, syrian and lebanese politologists conclude that the international community is resigned to the current, monstrous scenario, which has become a ‘new normal’. let us be clear, the assad regime would not have existed today if russia and iran had not have forcefully intervened to prop it up. they intervened and there was a void left by the absence of a clear commitment by the eu and us. we also need to be clear that there are terrorist groups, but also terrorist regimes. all of them have to be assessed on the basis of the criminal deeds and mass murders. the eu has planned to take strategic approach to this conflict, to use all means to enforce security council resolutions. there is one thing we have to be very clear about: there can be no sustainable peace without accountability for the crimes committed. there is no doubt about the main actors responsible. while isis has been mainly defeated, there remains the assad regime, russia and syria and now iran. therefore, these main actors cannot be allowed to walk away from the economic and human consequences of their military intervention and indiscriminate use of force. there must be strong international moral and political pressure not only to end the intervention, but to make them contribute fully to the reconstruction of syria. additional targeted sanctions should be imposed on russia and iran following their role in the bombardment of the syrian population in eastern ghouta.
blue-card question. – mr schaffhauser, i want to ask you a question. how would you react to the question that the cornerstone of middle east peace is an independent kurdish state which would cut iraq and syria into different territories?
in writing. the humanitarian catastrophe in syria continues and is being exacerbated by the actions of syria and its allies russia and iran. this has already resulted in the loss of more than 400,000 lives; 6.1 million syrians are internally displaced and 5 million syrians are displaced in other countries. the continuing chemical attacks and bombings against civilians, aid and medical workers and civilian infrastructure must stop immediately. syria, russia and iran must respect un security council resolution 2401. the united states has not yet ratified the un security council resolution 2401. humanitarian aid must be able to reach conflict zones safely. the eu must continue to strengthen sanctions and ensure that the perpetrators of these heinous crimes are brought to justice and punished.
mr president, the proclamation of the european pillar of social rights opens up new opportunities for us. among the goals of the european semester are structural reforms to create more jobs and growth. the pillar aims to provide equal opportunities on the labour market to improve social protection and inclusion. the challenges of balanced economic growth and social protection are closely interconnected, since poverty undermines economic development. in addition, poverty is a security risk. poverty reduces the people’s trust in the european project and prevents support for important reforms. poverty degrades human dignity and is not compatible with the european values that we defend in this institution. poverty distorts democratic processes and gives a chance to irresponsible populists. therefore, the pillar should become an important and necessary tool for ensuring a better future for europe. at the moment, the 20 principles of the pillar are important, but not legally binding declarations. to start the work of the pillar, we need legislative initiatives from the commission. the progress of the country-specific recommendations shows that the member states are reluctant to implement advice that is not based on legally binding norms. if there are no legislative initiatives, the pillar becomes an empty formality. without a doubt, we cannot afford that now.
mr president, cyber security has become a part of global affairs and the threat is real, with possible lethal consequences. imagine the consequences of a successful cyber attack on a nuclear plant, on an air-traffic control facility or on a hospital. there are more and more network disruptions for political purposes, and various state actors have been involved in malicious cyber activities in pursuit of political, economic or security objectives, including attacks on critical infrastructure, cyber espionage and disinformation campaigns. because of this, we need to update european cyber defence capabilities, we need more cooperation among member states, the eu, nato and other like-minded countries. we need to build trust. we need to train more experts in cyber defence. we need more joint exercises and we also need to improve accountability, which requires further development of a common understanding of the international law applicable to cyberspace. the next attack might create far more damage than we have seen so far, and every future conflict can have a cyber dimension.
mr president, let me fire my salvo. currently intelligence agencies like the nsa have a habit of hoarding security vulnerabilities and exploits in order to gather intelligence. this means that they don’t disclose these vulnerabilities in a timely manner to the manufacturers of the affected products, who thus remain unaware and can’t immediately patch their products and services. unfortunately, this modus operandi relies on the hope that these vulnerabilities are not discovered in parallel by anyone else, which is not very probable, especially if enough time goes by. this in turn makes everyone vulnerable, be it to attacks from a hostile nation-state or cyber criminals. due to the nature of digital technologies themselves we are either all secure or none of us are.
author. – madam president, the declaration of a state of emergency in the maldives, despite the peaceful protest of hundreds of citizens and international condemnation, has led to a large number of human rights and fundamental freedoms being suspended and abused. the authoritarian rule of president abdulla yameen is damaging the country and its people. of grave concern is the threat of resuming state-sanctioned executions. the shift towards radical islamism and increasing radical islamist militancy is worrisome. the european union must use all instruments to promote respect for human rights and democratic principles in the maldives, even if that means suspending financial assistance or using targeted measures. the state of emergency should be lifted. fundamental human rights and the rule of law must be respected. in the meanwhile, the eu also needs to coordinate its travel advice for european tourists.
in writing. digitisation has transformed the way information is accessed and disseminated, and has created opportunities for learning, working and participating in public and political debate. however, women use the internet less than men and only about 16% of the almost eight million people working in the ict sector in europe are women. improving digital skills offers a great opportunity to improve work-life balance, increase access to education and training, facilitate labour market inclusion in rural and peripheral areas and create entrepreneurial opportunities. it is important to make more targeted use of the digital agenda and the digital single market strategy to address gender inequalities in the ict sector. it is also important to introduce early on-the-job ict training into the curriculum and to encourage girls to learn more real-world subjects.
madam president, today the amendments to the education act in latvia come into force. by 2021, bilingual secondary education will be abolished. for russian speakers – 37% of the population – everything will be in latvian. at the same time, the education act preserves the possibility of teaching in the official languages of the european union. similar changes in ukraine in educational law were criticised by the venice commission as discrimination against russian speakers. this is also contrary to european values. the latvian reform is ill—founded. graduates of russian schools have no problems with the latvian language. sixty percent of their studies in secondary school is in latvian. behind this controversial reform is the latvian unity party: this is a shameless election campaign. we cannot tolerate the struggle with the linguistic diversity of the union. this reform is also a security risk for europe: it leads to marginalisation of the russian minority and provides opportunities for foreign manipulation.
mr president, strikes against the use of chemical weapons were justified and necessary, but the crisis is continuing. i agree with my colleague, mr salafranca sánchez-neyra, that syria has been the biggest failure of the international community for years. however, the primary killer of the civilian population is not chemical weapons; it is indiscriminate, systematic aerial bombing. assad’s goal is clear: to bomb and gas all opposition to total surrender, leaving no space for substantial negotiations or compromises. russia and iran, by siding with assad and backing him in full, have defined themselves as co—responsible for all atrocities and crimes. by the way, five years ago, russia managed to prevent president obama from reacting by force to the use of chemical weapons by offering itself as guarantor that this would not happen again, taking responsibility for removing chemical weapons from syria. today, russia has lost any credibility in this role. we need to make sure that peace cannot be achieved without justice, and the eu has a substantial role to play here.
madam president, it is clear that the kremlin’s strategic goal is to target us all: to weaken and demolish the very foundations of the western rule of law system, to break international norms on conduct, and apply an indiscriminate policy of brutal force and lies. some colleagues have spoken about respecting the national interests of russia. what were the national interests of hitler? this is not about the russian national interests, but the interest of mr putin and his criminal associates. no eu country today can cherish hopes that they will be exceptions and bargain better positions with mr putin. the immediate requirement is new tough sanctions targeting the responsible individuals among russian elites. russia is as strong as the eu is weak and hesitant. putin can be successfully contained, but only from a position of strength.
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, this has been a very useful exchange. i would like to thank the members for their speeches. from this debate, i conclude that we all share, more or less, a common interest in retaining above all a united, realistic and balanced approach towards russia. we will continue to look at how best to use all the instruments available to us, first of all in strengthening our own resilience. secondly in supporting our partners and continuing political dialogue, and in supporting russian civil society. thirdly, we must insist on human rights and democracy and people—to—people contact. i think this is our obligation and our moral duty in order to provide what the russian people need inside russia. thank you very much again for this very fruitful discussion. i strongly believe that the role of this parliament in keeping this important issue on the agenda remains very, very important.
in writing. – taking into account russia’s behaviour on the international arena, such as the attacks in georgia, crimea, ukraine, and syria, and more recently the use of military grade novichok nerve agent on uk soil, it would be most inappropriate to reward russia by letting it host the 2018 fifa world cup. to this end, i will promptly launch an initiative urging fifa to reconsider the host country for the 2018 world cup.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, north korea has long been a country with a very poor human rights record but with great military ambitions. it has for decades been very aggressive and threatening towards its neighbours, south korea and japan. the size of the north korean armed forces is ranked fourth in the world, and now the threat of nuclear weapons has been added. north korean actions have been met with an international response in the form of sanctions, and it is good that china has finally also started to follow the sanctions policy. the meeting planned between the us president, mr trump, and the north korean leader has been met with slight but careful optimism in north korea’s neighbouring countries. however, it seems unlikely that as a result of just one meeting, both sides will be able to agree on something substantial. it is a fact that north korea has only caught the attention of president trump because it now has nuclear capabilities, and it will be very hard for north korea to give up this privilege so easily. the united states, the european union and other nations cannot withdraw sanctions before north korea has significantly changed its behaviour, so we are probably going to continue in this limbo. what that the eu can do is make sure that the sanctions are kept in place and that they are followed by the member states. we also need to make an effort to ensure china also keeps following the sanctions policy until north korea gives up its nuclear weapons ambitions and stops violating human rights. this is the one thing that influences the behaviour of north korea. it is not only the nuclear weapons that is the problem. it is also the grave violations of human rights in north korea that needs to stop, and the aggressive policy of north korea towards its neighbours, especially south korea and japan.
madam president, i would like to thank my colleague, ms schaake, for this clear and common—sense approach to the vital topic. we actually call for a policy—driven and principle—based use of the external financial instruments that should operate within, and in harmony with, the eu’s strategic policies. the central idea for me is to develop a maximum of synergies and coherence between all the instruments in question. at the same time, regarding the idea floated by the commission and the external action service to pool all instruments into one, i remain sceptical and agree with ms schaake that we cannot provide a ‘carte blanche’ for this idea. at the same time, i do believe that the eu has to apply stricter conditionality as for the beneficiaries. it would actually be useful to strengthen the ownership of the beneficiaries, having them fully on board from step one. there is also the need to make sure that the eu rules and procedures for funding are fully understood from the beginning. the monitoring and evaluating of the process is a must. in situations of serious political backsliding, funds need to be suspended faster to make the beneficiary comply with the eu rules and principles. lastly, i think the eu has a task to have maximum visibility for its external instruments and their impact.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am rapporteur on the european food safety authority (efsa) file only, and there is a delicate border between the report as such and the ongoing court case. my hope is that the agency will act in accordance with the court’s decision, when it is made. mr url has promised me that he will do so, and i have no reason to doubt his word. i think that we will do fine with the efsa discharge report. as a shadow rapporteur on commission discharges, i would like to bring up two issues. first, we all know that that some commissioners are getting pensions from the – soon to be insolvent, perhaps – voluntary pension fund. as a token of sympathy and an act of goodwill, i will not mention the names of the commissioners. but i ask commissioner oettinger to ask his colleague whether he is aware of why bismarck invented pensions. he invented pensions so that, after long decades of hard work, the person who has lost his ability to work will have the means to survive in his elderly days. pensions are not meant to be paid out to people with the full ability to do an important job. second – and i am not harsh because it is the epp group, if it was a green commissioner i would be twice as harsh – let me go to alde, and this brings me to the issue of special advisers. there is a huge number of special advisers – with the wrong gender balance: one woman to three and a half men – but the problem is that some of them are former commissioners. they appear to be lobbyists, entering with their badges and working for private companies during their cooling-off period, ignoring the ethical code of the commission. when i asked a question in 2015, the commission failed to answer in time and, again, as a gesture of goodwill i did not pursue it. i appreciate that the commission has made changes in this particular case, but the rule as such has not been changed. i call on the commission to look very clearly into this matter so that citizens can understand what kind of advice a former commissioner, now governor of a small village in estonia, is giving to vice-president dombrovskis on eurozone economies. i mean, why does mr dombrovskis need that? it is suspicious. having said that, on the positive side, i heard dear colleague ms ayala sender complaining that there is too little speaking time. president sassoli, if you could cut my second intervention by 50% i could donate my minute to ms ayala sender and that would be good, i think, for the debate in plenary. if i can cut my speaking time by 50% i see no difficulty for the commission to cut special advisers in the same way, by 50%. send them home, we need them there. having said that, i would like to thank all the rapporteurs, shadows and colleagues from the budgetary control committee. it has been a real privilege to be in this enlightened bunch of members. thank you very much.
rapporteur. – mr president, first of all i must apologise for my former speech, where i referred to my own parliamentary question to the commission and made it happen in ‘1915’. it does not do any honour to a member of the committee on budgetary control (cont) when his error rate is one century! of course i meant ‘2015’. but i agree with the commissioner and others who have said that assessing the error rates is not enough, and we should be able to evaluate the achievement and value added in european spending. so perhaps we should also, in particularly close cooperation between the commission and this parliament, start to analyse the opportunity costs. let me give you an example: if we were to spend one billion of the connecting europe facility’s money not on the best, but on the second best, of available options, we would miss that very same billion on the right option, not to mention correcting the mistakes cost. i am referring to rail baltica. i am convinced that members of parliament could be helpful for the commission to guarantee that kind of process. again, thanks for enabling me to be part of this important process.
author. – mr president, president duterte’s war on drugs has taken the lives of around 12 000 people, including women and children. in addition to the killings and massive violation of human rights there is harassment of human rights defenders, critics of duterte’s actions, indigenous peoples and so on, not to mention duterte’s own unacceptable behaviour, with his remarks and calls for violence that amount to violation of international humanitarian law. the threats, intimidation and violence must stop. it is extremely disappointing that the philippines has decided to withdraw from the international criminal court. the reasons for this step are obvious. it is an attempt to avoid accountability for the crimes committed. the icc initiative to inquire into this matter of crimes against humanity in the philippines is highly welcome and needed, and all those responsible for the heinous crimes must be brought to justice.
the commission presented the priorities for the next eu multiannual financial framework (mff) for the years 2021-2027. it is important to bear in mind that the eu's role in ensuring security and stability in the world is growing, and brexit leaves a large hole in the budget. with this in mind, the next mff will provide for cost reductions and the creation of new revenue streams. the commission proposes to set the mff at a total amount of eur 1.135 billion over seven years, equivalent to 1.11% of the gross national income of the eu-27. it is welcome that the next mff will provide for increased spending on eu security and defence issues and also focus more on supporting eu border guards, which will be able to manage the eu's external borders better and more efficiently thanks to increased funding. the future eu budget must be flexible enough to cope with unexpected issues, as was the case during the refugee crisis in the previous programming period. the commission therefore proposes to create a new eu reserve to cope with unforeseen events and to increase flexibility between funding programmes.
mr president, three days before the entry into force of the gdpr mark zuckerberg testified before the european parliament. he stated that in three days’ time facebook will be fully compliant with the new regulation, but as was rightfully said, how do we know that you are telling us a truth? is facebook being honest with us? the question answered itself on friday. hours after the gdpr entered into force, a lawsuit has been filed against facebook and two of its companies, whatsapp and instagram, in three countries for breaching the gdpr. it is alleged that these companies never gave the users the real choice regarding the use of their data. if you don't agree you simply cannot use your facebook account anymore. this is unacceptable. apologies and handshakes are not sufficient anymore to get facebook off the hook. i welcome the lawsuits filed by digital rights activists and encourage action on a european level. it is great to see europeans defending their own rights, but we are the ones who should be protecting them.
in writing. – the financial times is spreading panic that poland and other eastern european countries are being stripped of their funds to finance the mediterranean fiesta. the people who believe this should read the documents released by the commission and the documents this parliament has produced. and for the ones who sit in the plenary of the european parliament and still believe it, i would suggest reading the documents twice and getting their homework done before the ‘bell’ rings. this is not the time for cultivating the art of madness or illiteracy, but it is rather a time to understand the sense of ownership in every policy we undertake. therefore, i urge my colleagues to heavily engage in getting the multiannual financial framework post—2020 adopted during the mandate of this parliament.
madam president, i fully agree with my socialist colleague atondo that there could be no socialism without democratic liberties. the crisis of democracy in nicaragua has resulted in massive repressions by the government, accompanied by attacks on civil liberties and silencing journalists. i would like especially to remember ángel gahona, an investigative journalist who was shot dead on 21 april. tomorrow will mark six weeks of such brutal repressions, and that is really enough. i would suggest four priorities. first, we demand that the nicaraguan government immediately stop violence against their own citizens. second, these violent acts need an independent international investigation to bring to accountability those responsible for the deaths of demonstrators. third, the functioning of civil liberties and freedom of the press must be fully restored, and we call for an electoral reform which will provide for fair and credible elections under international standards. early elections would be a sensible short- term compromise in such a dramatic standoff, offering both sides a democratic solution. people in nicaragua are entitled to express their voice now, and it is really alarming that the government has so far refused the solution, and we call on the european commission and the member states to exercise coordinated pressure on the nicaraguan authorities to make them follow the priorities presented by the european parliament.
in writing. what is happening in nicaragua is regrettable. the repression and intimidation of peaceful protesters must end immediately, the duty of the nicaraguan security forces is to protect the citizens, not to leave them unprotected or to kill them. a thorough investigation should also be carried out to identify and prosecute the perpetrators of the violence. to end the violence and resolve the crisis, both sides need to return to the negotiating table. unfortunately, the temptation of corruption in the country seriously undermines the functioning of state institutions and restricts foreign investment. the continuous extension of the term of office of president ortega is also contrary to the judicial system and illegal, clearly violating the right to democratic elections. the eu must monitor the situation in nicaragua closely and take appropriate action if necessary.
my dear colleagues! the negative effects of the economic downturn are still felt by young people and have affected their employment and learning opportunities. we all want our young people to be independent and ambitious, to have no debate, to have everything done for them. but in order for them to be able to stand up for their future and plan their lives, they need to be given opportunities, and that is why a youth strategy is extremely important. in such a highly competitive and economically challenging environment, young people are often willing to do internships after internships and therefore it is easy to take advantage of young people by offering them work experience but at the same time unfavourable or even non-existent compensation options, unrealistic working hours and conditions and so on. this internship is not conducive to the future of our young people and internship opportunities must be of high quality with certain working conditions and benefits. concern for the future of young people should not be a matter of national concern only, but regional and local authorities should be actively involved in youth policy. it would be particularly welcome if local authorities offered individual support to their young people, depending on their economic and social situation, but also on the preferences they wish to pursue and to be involved in.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, petitions are an important signal for this parliament. they show the concerns of europeans and reflect the situation on the ground. in this case they showed problems regarding precarious work. during this mandate the committee on petitions has received over 80 petitions from 10 different member states on precariousness and abusive use of fixed-term contracts. as a response, the committee organised hearings on these issues and now we have an oral question and a resolution. this resolution sends a powerful message. it sends a message to the petitioners that we have heard them. it sends a message to those who are in precarious employment that we care, and it sends a message to the commission and member states that we all need to act. in the last few years the labour market has been changing. there is a trend to move away from traditional contracts and to move towards more flexibility – flexibility for the employer and the employee. but this shift was not foreseen in the current eu labour laws. therefore, it sometimes happens that these more flexible workers are less protected. as the labour market changes, we need to adapt. the gaps in current laws should be closed to guarantee inclusive labour standards. but it is not only the eu which needs to act. the member states have the most important task: they need to implement the laws to protect the workers. incorrect implementation leads to insecurity. infringement proceedings started by the commission take a long time, even years, and during that entire period the workers suffer. there are also occasions when member states can do more, by introducing, for example, better safeguards against abusive use of fixed-term contracts. member states have the competence and power and should definitely use it. i am therefore happy to see that this resolution covers these issues. people in precarious working conditions are always in the weaker position. they need us to stand up for them and ensure that they are protected.
mr president, commissioner, of special concern today is the swedish-iranian researcher ahmadreza djalali, sentenced to death. there at least 14 other persons of dual citizenship who have been persecuted. in fact, iran has intensified arrests of civil society activists, human rights defenders and journalists. we call for the immediate release of all of them – but calling is not enough. on iran, i think we need a similar approach to that proposed in our next resolution on saudi arabia. first, introduction of targeted measures against individuals responsible for grave human rights violations, and second, providing active support for civil society groups and defenders of human rights. i would like here to extend our sympathy and support for the iranian people who have, since the end of last year, repeatedly demonstrated for social and political rights. if we are serious about our own values, it is our first duty to be actively on their side in their quest for civil liberties, human dignity and democracy. (applause)
author. – mr president, it is imperative that sudan overturn the death sentence on noura hussein hammad, ensure her safety and give her access to psychological help. hopefully the movement ‘justice for noura’ and the international attention this case has been given will help in noura’s case, but will also spread wider knowledge in sudanese society about the rights of women and children that need to be upheld. the sudanese authorities are the ones that need to review and reform the laws in sudan as regards the rights of women and children. the age of marriage needs to be raised. all cases of gender—based violence and sexual violence need to be prosecuted and their perpetrators held liable. the implementation of laws which already exist must be enforced. forced marriage and marital rape is a deep-rooted problem in sudanese society and regarded as something normal. this needs to be tackled at the highest level, starting with the president of sudan, who should also finally acknowledge the role of the icc.
mr president, it is very bad that we have come to a situation where allies such as the european union and the us have such diverging opinions on iran and how to move forward. the iran nuclear agreement is not perfect, but to change it, the allies – meaning the us and the european union – should work together, not act unilaterally. the unilateral actions of the us undermine this much-needed alliance and also the international legal environment. it is also clear that some expectations that came with the iran nuclear agreement have not been fulfilled, such as the way iran is spending the money that it has received due to the lifting of sanctions. instead of using this money to build up its country and help people, it is using the money to enhance its military structures and support conflicts in its neighbouring countries like yemen, syria and iraq. also, the continued threats against israel are unacceptable and must be addressed also by the eu. of course, the eu should think of plan b, should iran go ahead and resume the enrichment of uranium, as the iranian president has threatened.
mr president, i will make three points. one element is missing here. there was not one serious word addressed to the iranian people. you mentioned just the human rights dialogue, which has failed to produce any tangible results. i think that an issue which is no less important than the nuclear deal is the continued repression of the iranian people by the extremist fundamentalist regime. second, i am worried that the eu approach has been tilted towards protecting eu companies’ access to the iranian markets rather than protecting with equal commitment human rights and civil liberties there. and third, ms mogherini mentioned that the deal has avoided regional escalation. i think the opposite is true. the iranian military expansion in the middle east has recently reached the israeli borders. there is a direct threat to the very existence of israel, as tehran has repeatedly called for the annihilation of the jewish state. has there been any serious reaction to that from the eu?
mr president, today i think it is time to draw lessons from the half—hearted reaction by the eu to the russian invasion of georgia 10 years ago. it is crucially important that the eu unconditionally continues to stand up in support of the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia. we have a clear and firm resolution on it, but it was alarming that attempts were made yesterday to define abkhazia and south ossetia just as self—styled breakaway territories. the fact is that aggression is progressing. encroachment into the georgian territory continues from one week to another, metre by metre. russia is reinforcing its military presence in georgia’s occupied territories. the russian government, as the occupying power, is directly responsible for the abnormal situation in abkhazia and south ossetia. we need to show strong solidarity with the georgian people and it is vitally important that only a consistent and firm stance against russian aggression can assure a peaceful solution to the conflict.
in writing. georgia, which is celebrating its 100th birthday this year, will also mark 10 years since russia occupied the regions of abkhazia and south ossetia in august. russia has unfortunately not complied with the 2008 ceasefire agreement. russia is steadily pushing its administrative border deeper into georgian territory, refusing to grant eu monitoring missions access to agreed areas, and human rights violations in the occupied territories continue. the eu and the international community must take a consistent, coordinated and common position on the russian occupation. the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia must be continued to be supported and work towards a peaceful solution to the conflict. at the same time, the international criminal court must continue to investigate war crimes and crimes against humanity committed during the conflict. of course, the most important thing is for russia to end its occupation of georgia. the resolution of the georgian conflict is essential for enhancing security and stability throughout europe.
in writing. ten years ago, when russia attacked its tiny neighbor georgia during the peacetime of the olympic games, priit heinsalo and i published an appeal in the newspaper eesti ekspress for volunteers from among the estonian reserve officers to go to georgia to fight the aggression. the initiative did not generate a major controversy, but the european parliament reacted unexpectedly, with a written request from its then member, the german communist sahra wagenknecht. why do estonians want to bring the whole of europe and nato into a war over some trivial incident? he got an answer, too. i mention this incident and wagenknecht only to show how dangerous is communist naivety, "putin inversionism" and the belief that the kremlin has the right to terrorize all its neighbors by force.
madam president, macrofinancial assistance (mfa) is important for ukraine, not only to cover its additional financial needs, but also to provide incentives for speeding up the nation’s reform efforts. we now look forward to the signing of the memorandum of understanding next month. the eu is standing, and continues to stand, with the ukrainian nation and government. by adopting last thursday the benchmark law on a special independent court for addressing corruption, a significant step was made. however, the eternally crucial issue remains: that of the implementation. we expect an informal but radical and determined effort by the rule of law establishment to enter into the space of shady business and to take accountability of all those who distort law and justice in their own or in their group’s interests. at the same time, putin’s regime will do everything to compromise the newly opened path to transparency justice. only by taking real control of corruption can russian aggression and intervention be credibly depleted.
rapporteur. – madam president, dear colleagues, cybersecurity has fast become an indivisible part of global affairs. cybersecurity threats are real, they can be very damaging and may bring about lethal consequences. one can only imagine the effects of a successful cyber-attack on a nuclear plant, on an air traffic control facility or on a hospital. eu member states are often subject to cyber—attacks by either state or non-state actors for political, economic or security purposes, including attacks on critical infrastructure, cyber—espionage and disinformation campaigns. therefore, urgent reinforcement and development of european offensive and defensive capabilities is needed. we need to build up and improve our cyber—deterrents and defence if we are to truly modernise european defence. while cyber—defence remains the core competence of the member states, nevertheless, due to the borderless nature of cyberspace, it is not possible for any one state alone to tackle the threats and challenges. member states must cooperate closely and this is where the eu can be of help. the eu can provide a platform for european cooperation and ensure that the new endeavours are closely coordinated at an international level and within the transatlantic security architecture. as we have all seen, with the development of the european defence policy over the last few years, so too has the cyber—defence domain been developing. pesco and the european defence fund are the latest initiatives with the necessary scope to facilitate co-operative projects in the cyber domain. we have a huge deficit of cyber—defence specialists. while there are already some initiatives in this field that need continued support, like the military erasmus programme and some others, we see the need to do more. it is important to increase the availability of virtual cyber—defence training. we need to create wide-ranging technical platforms and establish a community of eu experts to develop a platform to facilitate the pooling and sharing of training and exercises. in 2016, at the nato summit cyberspace was recognised as an operational domain, together with land, air and sea. this was a big step at the time. we need to broaden cooperation with nato in cyber—defence by increasing operational cooperation and coordination and expanding capacity-building efforts, intensifying joint training for staff, building trust and conducting joint exercises. like-minded strategic partners should also be taken into account. as regards international norms and rules, i am glad that the un group of governmental experts would agree on some of the concepts concerning cyberspace. it was agreed that international law applies and should be enforced in cyberspace. however, it is necessary for the eu to assume a leading role in the ongoing and future debates on international norms in cyberspace. on civilian-military cooperation, again trust is a key issue. this needs to be developed further between companies and defence and civilian end-users. also, private companies have a great role in preventing, detecting, containing and responding to cyber—security incidents, as well as in stimulating innovation. it is therefore also imperative that there is more cooperation with the private sector. so in conclusion, we need to continuously update european cyber—defence capabilities. we need more cooperation at the level of member states, the eu, nato and other like-minded countries by building trust, training more experts, having more joint exercises and improving accountability. the next attack might create far more damage than we have seen so far.
madam president, commissioner king’s presence here is very much welcomed. essentially, cyberspace comes down to trust and cooperation. since the very beginning of debates on cyber issues we have been calling for deeper and wider cooperation among member states and among the eu institutions. furthermore, cybersecurity and cyber—defence have been mainstreamed into common foreign and security policy. we have been calling on this continuously and we call on it again. eu—nato cyber—cooperation is crucial. a prime practical example of that cooperation was last year’s strategic high—level exercise in estonia with the participation of the nato secretary—general. lastly, may i make a personal call on cyber—hygiene. everything comes down to the individual user. cyber—hygiene is essential in every domain by people who deal with critical infrastructure and information, yet we do not even have cybersecurity training for european parliament staff, not to mention students in schools. let me congratulate colleague paet for continuing this work and for proving himself a true liberal by accepting practically all the amendments to this report.
rapporteur. – madam president, i wish to thank everyone for all the comments and feedback we have heard and, of course, i especially thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the very efficient and effective cooperation we had preparing this report. we have a responsibility at all levels to increase the security of our citizens, and this means also increasing cyber—defence at member state level, as well as that of the eu, nato and like—minded countries. i want to stress that i believe it is imperative that top—level exercises are also held every now and then to bring the matter closer to the leaders of our countries to make them realise the problem is not going away. each and every country must do their utmost, each on their own, but of course also together. thank you very much, and i really hope that tomorrow during the vote we can have the result which is long awaited by our citizens from our member states.
author. – mr president, there are more than 720 000 rohingya children in bangladesh and myanmar in dire need of assistance and protection. more than 43 000 of them have lost at least one, if not two, parents. all of them have witnessed atrocities, and many of them are suffering from malnutrition, physical abuse and illnesses. rape is used as a tool by myanmar soldiers in their campaign of ethnic cleansing. rohingya women and children are extremely exposed to the risk of being trafficked into prostitution and to the risk of sexual harassment, and the situation of the rohingyas is already getting worse due to the monsoon. the international community must do its utmost to find a sustainable approach to the tragic situation, but the myanmar authorities should bear in mind that ethnic cleansing does not go without punishment. the european union should seek accountability for those responsible in myanmar and work towards referring the situation in myanmar to the international criminal court.
in writing. climate change is having an increasingly significant and serious impact on various aspects of human life and the geopolitical situation. given the eu's leading role in combating climate change and the objectives of the paris agreement, it is important that the eu has a clear understanding of how to better shape climate diplomacy in the international environment. this requires the development of an action plan, improving eu structures within the eu institutions, and involving more member states as well as other stakeholders such as the scientific community, the private sector, etc. it is also important to address the causal link between climate change and migration.
mr president, on 13 june, the majority of this chamber supported the report on cybersecurity. the report stated that european institutions should not use software which is confirmed to be malicious, such as software from kaspersky lab. the statement was ill-founded. there is no proof that software from kaspersky lab is malicious. the commission earlier stated that there was no information about threats associated with kaspersky anti-virus programmes. kaspersky participated together with europol in the investigation of complex cybercrimes, where hundreds of millions of euros were at stake. in addition, together with europol, the dutch police and others they founded the no more ransom project, which helped thousands of victims of ransomware to get their encrypted data back without having to pay criminals. after the adoption of the report, kaspersky lab felt forced to stop the cooperation with europol and the no more ransom initiative. the report was supposed to strengthen cyber—defence in the eu, but unfortunately, it has done the exact opposite. i would say this was a careless and irresponsible decision.
madam president, this long-running, multi-dimensional crisis continues to deteriorate and there is no solution in sight. people are now voting with their feet and prices are increasing at, it was mentioned, 1.5% an hour. all this boils down to absolutely abnormal political and social conditions and as the commissioner pointed out, this is a man-made crisis, after all. venezuela’s experience proves that normal economic and social conditions are unavoidably linked to the free exercise of civil rights and the rule of law. there is absolute urgency now to allow humanitarian aid to the countryside unimpeded and it is a shame that the government that has provoked this crisis is now not allowing aid from outside to reach the victims. swift adoption of additional targeted sanctions against those responsible for the violation of democratic rights is needed and, finally, new presidential elections which comply with basic democratic standards are needed. only democratic decision-making by the people fully exercising their freedom can lead venezuela out of this quagmire.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, mr verhofstadt said this very morning ‘i have spoken so many times about poland, that i will use an opportunity to speak about the future of europe’, and i shall paraphrase him: ‘i have spoken so many times about the budget, but i will certainly use this opportunity.’ of course, the budget is about the future of europe and i just wish to point out three figures. ten is the number of consecutive atlantic storms that have developed to hurricanes; 30 000 is the number of forest fires in france, italy, spain and portugal in 2016; and 384 is the number of flood disasters around the world in the same year. now, let’s multiply it by the number of migrants and you will see how climate change is related to all sorts of crises – which the budget needs to address sufficiently. now allow me, please, to show some sympathy with our interpreters and please put on your earphones because i will switch to estonian. tõlkide töötingimused ei ole eelarveprobleem, sest koos härrade sassoli, wielandi, welle ja mangoldiga me leppisime kokku, et tõlkide eelarvet ei vähendata, ja nagu emalõvi võitles selle eest ka hea kolleeg eider cardiazabal rubial. loomulikult saaksime me hakkama vähemate keeltega, loomulikult võiksime vähendada oluliselt tõlkimise kulu, aga enne seda peaks meil olema julgust vähendada volinike arvu. me ei vaja mitte midagi tegevaid arvutuid asepresidente ja ma mainin, et härra oettingeri algatused on asepresident ansipi käes muutunud košmaariks, mida me homme peame interneti autoriõiguste kontekstis hääletama. selge, kuni meil pole julgust remontida barokset volinikesüsteemi, lubagem siiski ka tõlkidele niisuguseid mõnusaid töötingimusi nagu meil on. (president katkestas kõnelejat)
as vice-president of the european parliament’s disability intergroup, and having been president of the estonian union of persons with mobility impairment for four years, i am acutely aware of the obstacles faced by persons with disabilities in their everyday lives. for instance, even a couple of steps in the wrong place can become a significant hurdle if you are in a wheelchair. when it comes to elections, be it european elections or any elections for that matter, we must do our utmost to make the procedures accessible to all persons, including those with disabilities, no matter what kind of impairment they have. it is imperative that these people are not disenfranchised and prevented from exercising their fundamental right of having a say in the democratic process. since it is not always obvious for everyone to foresee all the accessibility arrangements that need to be made, i recommend to the relevant authorities turn to the organisations representing disabled people, in case of any doubt. it is also important that a sufficient number, if not all of the polling stations are made accessible, especially in countries where online voting is not available, otherwise there is still a risk of a discriminatory effect.
in writing. the current debate on afforestation outside the eu raises hopeless questions about what is happening to our own forests. the fact that a hundred years ago there were twice as many forests in estonia shows that our forestry system and ethics have not been sustainable. in the last decade. for centuries, the estonian worked to get the land from the family and the forest from the stockholders - today our forest is becoming a rental cutting-edge under the direction of the state authorities. we should put an end to the hypocritical practice of producing renewable energy by burning wood in a wood-fired boiler, and even more so to the marketing of this as an environmentally friendly energy source to other countries with a lower than expected share of renewable energy. aside from its environmental impact, the burning of high-quality wood to ashes also has its own economic detrimental factor - this wood could be used in other sectors in a more sustainable but also more profitable way. the authoritarian practice of logging in national parks and valuable green areas, where it should meet strict monitoring and transparency requirements, is also inexcusable. the 12th issue of the magazine estonian forest, 1927, stated that the popular rumor is true that the christians in the reichstag will share the kingdom of heaven with the willing and the gatherers again forests. it's still unknown which party will divide the sea. more than political parties, the state agencies acting contrary to their duties are responsible for the unbalanced logging in estonia today.
mr president, parliament has become the battleground for giants: the giants of the music and publishing industry against the giants of tech industry, and the creators are used as pawns in the game. but what is the actual problem? not enough money finds its way to the creators while someone else is cashing in on their work. creators need fair remuneration for their work, but making platforms liable will not solve this problem. neither will the creation of the publishers’ right, but it will have an impact on the users. what we need is a balanced approach between the creator’s right and the right of users. we have introduced compromises because the rapporteur failed to do so. there are reasonable amendments on the table, supported by academics from the field of intellectual property law and information law. they strengthen the position of creators and introduce exceptions for users. we have to strike a balance and not to fight on the side of one giant against the others.
madam president, it’s good that our report declares that the eu—us relationship is a fundamental guarantor of global stability and a cornerstone for our efforts to ensure peace and prosperity in the world. true, we have entered a period of instability and turbulences, but let us be clear, mr trump is not the cause of this situation. he is rather the result of long—term developments we have also neglected. the fact is that there’s no alternative or substitute to our cooperation. in fact we urgently need not less, but more, transatlantic cooperation. we need a strategy, especially today, to address jointly the syrian crisis, russian politics and many other problems. that’s why i think we need to be very constructive and careful in our criticism. to criticise the us for the appointment of a cia director is not a very balanced approach to this problem.
in writing. good eu-us relations are essential to support the rapid development and security of both sides, and every effort must be made to ensure trust and good cooperation between the us and the eu. however, the attitude of the current us administration on certain issues, such as free trade agreements, etc., is a strong sign that the eu itself needs to do more to strengthen its strategic autonomy. it is therefore important to make serious progress on, for example, strengthening the eu's defence capability, including on cyber security issues. a common approach and mutual support between the eu and the us in resolving global conflicts are essential. in this regard, the unilateral steps taken by the united states to withdraw from a number of international agreements are extremely regrettable.
madam president, thanks to mr belder, our approach to china is clear, critical and broad-based, but in general our relations with third countries must proceed from the balance between political and economic interests, on the one hand, and human rights, on the other hand. i am a bit worried that individual eu countries are conducting very different policies, often avoiding sensitive political and humanitarian issues. as a result, the eu’s fragmented approach to china risks giving the appearance of eu complacency regarding human rights there. second, we need to support actively the continuation of stability and peaceful relations between china and its neighbours, especially taiwan. therefore, we urge beijing to refrain from taking any unilateral action to change the existing status quo and to stop military provocations in the taiwan strait.
author. – mr president, the conviction of the two journalists reporting human rights violations by the myanmar forces is a clear example of the undermining of press freedom. the journalists must be freed at once. as regards the rohingyas, the situation has not improved. the un fact-finding mission recently concluded that the myanmar authorities had committed the most serious human rights violations and the gravest crimes under international law, including genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. the eu and the international community must spare no effort to make the myanmar authorities stop these atrocities and to ensure that those responsible will be brought to justice. the eu must therefore use all the tools it has, including a review of the trade preferences that myanmar benefits from under the ‘everything but arms’ scheme. the eu needs to take the lead in the un security council on referring the situation to the international criminal court, and the un security council must impose a global, comprehensive arms embargo on myanmar, as well as adopting targeted individual sanctions against those responsible for these heinous crimes.
in writing. the civil war in yemen is now in its fourth year and, in addition to the human casualties, the humanitarian and security situation in the country is appalling. in addition, the political crisis continues. the military activities and violence and the attacks on civilians in yemen must end immediately. any attack on civilians is contrary to international law and the perpetrators of such attacks must be held accountable. it is important to support the un special representative who is trying to bring all parties to the negotiating table, because this is the only way to reach a possible solution to the conflict. it is urgently necessary to ensure that humanitarian aid reaches the crisis areas.
prime minister of estonia. – mr president, vice-president of the commission and leaders of the political groups. first of all, i would like to thank you for your kind comments on estonia and also on our members of the european parliament. it is important that we have diverse views, even if i cannot agree with some of them. just as diversity of views is important, so is our ability to provide answers and solutions and, most importantly, to make compromises. i would like to react to some of your comments and your views. first of all, commission vice-president ansip, thank you for the kind references to our country – and our best wishes to you and also to commission president juncker! it is true that it is very important to have good connections with the centre of europe. connectivity is one of our priorities, and, if i am talking on a somewhat broader scale, i include here the baltic countries and the nordic ones. it is true that one of our targets will be the synchronisation of our energy market with the centre of europe and, of course, digitalisation, which was a cornerstone during our presidency, is still one of our most important themes in relation to unity and good cooperation between the member states. our slogan during our presidency was ‘unity through balance’, and i think it is so important today to achieve better cooperation, for example in the digital sphere. in terms of cooperation across borders, and in terms of concrete benefits for our citizens and for our businesses in doing business with different member states, we must go forward and find a solution. one very concrete wish is for free movement of data. i agree with those leaders who have mentioned artificial intelligence and self-driving cars, and, yes, it is true that in estonia we have a lot of different e-services, more than 2 500. but our goal must also be to be very good and very active in talking to the private sector: this means the fourth industrial revolution. during our presidency we were really happy that today we have much closer cooperation in terms of defence and security, with permanent structured cooperation (pesco), for example. in relation to the digital world, or digital society, the first step must always be cybersecurity. it is true that more than ten years ago we had some very serious cyberattacks but now we have more skills and much better cooperation. some words about what mr bullmann said: i agree 100% about sustainable development. it is so important here to strike the balance between the environment, the economy and the social sphere. thank you too, mr verhofstadt, for your kind words about estonia and the baltic states. i agree with you that this united europe is, for us, 100% important. now, some more about our environment. estonia has more than half of its territory covered by forest and we take sustainable forest management very seriously. estonia is meeting all the european climate goals: that was a priority during the presidency, and my government has a 50% renewable energy target. i also would like to say that estonia is a nature-loving society. we care deeply about the environment today and about what we leave for our children. we are on track with climate policy and energy efficiency goals and estonia has already reached the renewable energy goals for 2030. as regards the soviet union and the eu, i think they are at 180 degrees in terms of difference: having lived under the brutal soviet regime, i strongly reject any comparison with today’s or, for that matter, tomorrow’s european union. once more, i agree with mr weber on the importance of a level playing field and of creating the biggest digital market. it is also important that digital europe works for the many and not the few – well said, mr bullmann! as a member of the liberal family, i can only agree again with mr verhofstadt and i can only say thank you to sweden and the swedish people for supporting estonia and our fellow estonians, for example during the 1940s and 1950s, and today as well. i thank you all for your views and comments, and i would like to make some comments at the end of the debate.
mr president, i would like to thank prime minister ratas. prime minister, suur tänu, you have brought the feeling of europe from estonia to strasbourg and this unites us all. but, actually we are not debating estonia today, but the future of europe. in 1992, just after maastricht, which turned an economic community into a political union, the then president of the commission, jacques delors, a great socialist, voiced his vision of the european future. he said that each of the 12 member states now faced a challenge to make the biggest polity leap in post—war history to make this political union successful. delors said that, if we did not succeed in giving europe a soul, spirituality and inner meaning in the next ten years, this battle would be lost. today, 26 years have passed since then and i wonder if many of our problems today have emerged from this void which is still haunting us. in other words, man does not live by bread alone. member states do not live only by feeding their national interests and we need to agree on what really keeps us together. it’s not only economic, social and security interests. what is our european identity? it is not subsidies, consumption or social media, but a spirit of togetherness, rediscovering and revaluing our roots, and our spiritual and cultural continuity. prime minister ratas has brought us this feeling of togetherness, of family and of solidarity. aitäh.
mr president, first, i’d like to make one clarification, and it is that estonia is not a small country – estonia is a compact country. i will continue in the beautiful estonian language kõigepealt aitäh ettekande eest! täielikult võib toetada plaane liikuda edasi kaitsepoliitikaga euroopa liidus. oluline on teenuste siseturu areng ja palju muid asju, kuid euroopa üks suuremaid muresid on tegelikult kehv demograafiline olukord paljudes riikides, kus inimesi sureb rohkem, kui neid sünnib. elanikkond vananeb ja väheneb. sellises olukorras on järjest keerulisem tagada ka majanduskasvu ja inimeste elatustaseme tõusu. seega ka meie siin euroopa liidus peame väga tähelepanelikult vaatama, millised on need poliitikameetmed, mis saaksid seda olukorda parandada, sest ilma demograafilise olukorra paranemiseta pole suurt mõtet ka paljudel teistel toredatel asjadel. samas pean ma ütlema, et selle olukorra parandamisel on kõige olulisem muidugi inimeste endi käitumine ja isiklik panus. seetõttu on meie tänane esineja, eesti peaminister jüri ratas, hea eeskuju, kelle perre sündis kolm nädalat tagasi neljas laps. palju õnne!
mr president, just to save my colleagues time, i will not start to repeat my proposals about the future of europe and how to reform its institutions, etc. i will send them to you, prime minister, in written form. i hope you will take them into your campaigning platform, and i can guarantee with those proposals you can win the elections. thank you for coming here and for your good speech, and i wish you all the best. just a final remark to the colleagues who have amused me by comparing the european union to the soviet union: it’s an insult to all the people who suffered in the soviet union. let me tell you that the difference is clear: if you had made that kind of remark in the soviet union, if the eu were the soviet union, you’d been in a gulag or, in the worst case, shot extrajudicially. so please stop making such comparisons. you will also save our time.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, china has nothing to fear from its minorities, because the han nation is the biggest in the world. therefore, it’s most illogical and outrageous to see the uyghur minority – only 11 million – subjected to systematic oppression, which, in practice, deprives them of their national culture, identity and religion. up to one million uyghurs are supposedly being treated in the centres of indoctrination. therefore, we call on the beijing government to immediately end the practice of mass arbitrary detentions for members of the uyghur and kazakh minorities. we call specifically on the commission and eu member states’ governments to raise systematically the issue of human rights violations in the xinjiang province at the highest level, and we ask eu member states’ governments to prevent harassment of the uyghur and kazakh diaspora in eu countries, especially as regards preventing them from being returned to china against their will.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, lately the focus of the international community has tended to fade away from the human rights violations in china for certain pragmatic reasons, but a country wishing to be an economic superpower should not be allowed to violate the rights of its people. according to the un, up to one million uyghurs are being held in detention camps without any access to legal process. their family members don’t know where they are, or whether they are alive at all. collection of dna samples, gps tracking systems being installed in vehicles and cell phones, cameras installed in their homes – these are just some of the examples of how they are being harassed. the chinese government must release all those held arbitrarily in those detention camps and release the names, whereabouts and status of those that have disappeared. china must stop the systematic repression and uphold the commitments it has made by adhering to international human rights treaties, and the eu must address this issue in its meetings with the chinese government at all levels.
madam president, almost at the end of a procedure in the parliament i must say i do like this budget. i like it for its youth focus, for the targets set on migration and its future spending in research and defence, and that is why the rapporteur should be applauded. i heard carefully the commissioner and i appreciate his sympathetic approach towards climate change. however, we need to translate words into money and therefore into action. finally, yet importantly, in the symbolism of our rapporteur being italian, allow me to dare to say the realpolitik of an italian budget should definitely not become the one of the eu budget, and contrary to mr salvini’s hopes, we are not going to use this budget for electioneering but for the benefit of european citizens.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members for having decided to put this issue on the agenda of your plenary today. i think it is extremely important for parliament to have its voice heard on this. let me start by saying something basic and very clear that i think we have to start from, namely that a crime against one journalist, wherever in the world, is a crime against freedom of speech and freedom of information. as such, i would say it is a crime against our societies everywhere in the world, our way of life, in particular in europe, our principles and our values. it’s a crime against all of us. three weeks after the disappearance of jamal khashoggi, we now know that he was killed in the saudi consulate in istanbul. saudi arabia has now arrested a number of officials in connection with the case, yet too many details about what happened to the journalist are still missing. the confirmation of his death is a first step towards the truth and towards accountability, but the explanations offered so far by the saudi authorities leave many doubts and many unanswered questions. from day one, we have been asking saudi arabia to shed light on the events of 2 october through a full, credible, transparent and prompt investigation. we expect the saudi institutions to provide all the information they have about the case and to ensure that those responsible are brought to justice. last week, the foreign affairs council – all 28 foreign ministers of the eu member states – agreed to demand, united, a credible and transparent investigation. together with the foreign ministers of the countries of the g7, we have coordinated our approach, first asking for a credible investigation and, right now at this moment, working on further statements and steps to be taken together. just a few days ago, i expressed once again, on behalf of the whole european union and of all our member states, our expectation for clarity and full accountability. we have also asked saudi arabia for full collaboration with the turkish authorities. we hope that everyone will work towards the goal of establishing the facts. this is the starting point. the investigation must be driven by the search for the truth, and not by geopolitics. we will not merely wait for more clarity or ask for it: we will also continue to act, together with our partners, for achieving clarity. the european union’s reaction from now on will depend on the next steps taken by the saudi authorities. we will continue, first of all, to coordinate among ourselves, with united european union positions, but we will also continue to coordinate with our partners around the world and continue to follow the case and work to coordinate the appropriate reaction. as i said, this will have to be a united one at european level and together with our international partners. the saudi leadership has promised ambitious reforms for the country. the way this investigation is managed is a very important test in terms of free speech, human rights and the rule of law for all the people of saudi arabia. just a few months ago, our staff at the external action service in brussels welcomed jamal khashoggi for a conference on saudi arabia and on the situation in the region. we engaged with him on several occasions as a credible and authoritative voice in the debate about his country and the middle east. in his last op-ed, which was published after his death, he asked for a free and independent platform for arab voices. through the years we, as the european union, have worked precisely to support young and independent arab voices. we have trained young arab journalists, we have financed independent media and we have engaged in policy dialogues through initiatives such as young mediterranean voices. free speech lies at the core of our values and it will continue to be the basis for our foreign policy. we believe that national interest can never be a justification for curbing freedom of speech. on the contrary, when basic human rights are violated, our countries get weaker. i think this is the voice that needs to be heard at this point in history from the european union and from this parliament, united. it’s a point of strength to respect and protect human rights, starting with freedom of speech. it’s not a point of weakness. it’s a point of strength of our societies. (applause) when fundamental freedoms come under attack there can be no peace, no security and no human development. repression makes states and societies weaker and not stronger. jamal khashoggi had always advocated not only free speech, but also greater tolerance and respect for diversity. reading some of his words today is quite painful, thinking of the way in which the story ended, but the best way we have to honour his memory is to be firm and determined in asking for the truth and working for the truth – not only for the truth, but also for accountability, which is different both from scapegoating and from revenge. it is important for us to say this now. we will not only ask for justice, but we will also keep working for justice, for free speech and human rights in saudi arabia, in the region – in the whole region of the gulf – and everywhere in the world. (applause)
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, one of the most influential saudi journalists residing in the us has been killed, in all likelihood brutally murdered. it was a flagrant attack against independent journalism. a week ago the british times newspaper concluded that it was worse than a murder, it was a mistake. after hiding two weeks behind lies and disinformation, the saudi foreign minister finally admitted that yes, it was a tremendous mistake. while the whole truth has still to be fully revealed, at this moment it is practically impossible to believe that the saudi crown prince was not informed of the murderers’ plan. stopping arms sales to this country, at least on a temporary basis, is absolutely needed. the moral we cannot escape is the following: in autocratic systems, even under the so-called modern reformers, worse things can still happen. real reforms can succeed only under democratic transparency and control. a critical khashoggi could have been an integral part of credible reforms in saudi arabia. instead, he has been brutally cast overboard. therefore, the democratic world has to reject strongly and unconditionally such behaviour. saudi arabia must pay a high price for the tremendous mistake of its present leaders or middlemen.
in writing. an independent and transparent international investigation into the circumstances of the death of saudi journalist jamal khashoggi, killed in the saudi consulate in istanbul, and an international response to the incident. the perpetrators must be identified and brought to justice before a recognised, credible, independent and impartial tribunal. if the saudi authorities' involvement in the disappearance and murder of the journalist is conclusively proven, the eu and its member states must be prepared to impose sanctions on saudi arabia, such as visa bans and asset freezes on those responsible for the murder. the eu council should discuss the eu arms embargo against saudi arabia. a ban should also be imposed on exports of surveillance systems and other dual-use items used for the suppression of the population to saudi arabia. the eu must engage with saudi arabia on its human rights and fundamental freedoms issues and on saudi arabia's disturbing behaviour in the wider middle east region, including yemen. khashoggi's murder is an extraordinarily brutal case, but unfortunately, many other human rights activists, journalists, lawyers, bloggers and writers have been persecuted by the saudi authorities. both in the country and abroad. saudi arabia must accelerate social and political reforms and respect human rights. the eu must also continue to call for a moratorium on the death penalty.
in writing. we are facing another state-sponsored murder, the scene of which is istanbul. not bratislava, or valletta, or sofia. and there's also a certain connection to the state-sponsored murders in salisbury. such medieval-rooted governments should not enjoy the support of societies built on the foundations of freedom, equality and fraternity. but the world is tough, and the mantra of economic growth requires arms exports. this is both due to geo-strategic considerations and to the exploration of labour market opportunities. however, i would remind you that both iran, russia and saudi arabia, which take liberties in murdering their citizens abroad, are primarily petro-dollar countries. and so we don't have to start with a ban on arms sales to them, but a ban on gazprom and aramco. and given the circumstances of the last heinous crime, we should instead impose export restrictions on the harvest. husqvarna, stihl and hilti saws should look at where they sell their wares...
madam president, i would like to thank high representative mogherini for a very clear and strong statement based on principles, and this is an ideal point for parliament to support this. systematically stopping merchant vessels in the sea of azov sea gives a signal that russia is unilaterally expanding its control there. we can see it as a creeping attempt to annex the waters of azov and turn the sea into a sort of russian internal lake, and this in a situation where most of ukraine’s exports are passing through the azov sea ports. russia’s overtures to expanding its control over ukrainian territories and borders in this indirect but systematic way are most alarming. in this situation, the eu is once more called upon to demonstrate its strong, unanimous and unconditional support for ukrainian sovereignty and territorial integrity.
madam president, the minimum wage in venezuela was recently raised by 3 000%. that sounds like a wild dream for workers in a normal country, but in the meantime, inflation has skyrocketed by 83 000% this year. prices doubled in 26 days, 80% of the population is affected by poverty. this represents a total failure by the present regime, which has lost the moral and political credentials to run the country, a regime that has caused the largest wave of migration in latin america’s recent history. there is a climate of violence and total impunity. we need to take a decisive approach with clear conditions, namely: freeing all political prisoners; allowing humanitarian aid to enter the country unimpeded; and, lastly, the holding of free and credible elections. but i cannot agree more with your point, ms mogherini, that the people of venezuela are simply asking for democracy, and the crisis will end with the restoration of a normal, open and pluralist society which guarantees the rights of every citizen. it is as simple as that.
madam president, let me first point out that i very much honour the rapporteur, mr nagy, and appreciate his activities. but, unlike him, i am one of the few members of this parliament who has personal experience of being the minority and the majority. indeed, in the soviet union, i was in an oppressed and often deported minority. now, for 25 years, i have tried to behave as a member of the responsible majority. my advice to colleagues is to join the rapporteur in his statement that no single best-practice model exists for europe. for instance, estonia is rich in experience of generous and fair relations to its so-called minority, which happened mostly to fight against estonian independence only a quarter of a century ago. that is why i advise all traditional, non—soviet-produced minorities as well: be patient and europe will protect you, do not sound your bugles, and never be aggressive and irredentist. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for your question, dear colleague. i didn’t mention the 100th anniversary of the independence of many of the countries of the european union because it’s very widely known. indeed, together we appreciate that we are very open to cultural autonomy etc., which doesn’t mean that we should be supporting any kind of imperialist approaches to minority rights.
budgetary debate is like describing an elephant by touching its feet and tail and trunk and of course we all like to emphasise these particular aspects. but it's not that. and it is not so much whether we put 30% into agricultural subsidies or 20% into agricultural subsidies, what is important is that agricultural subsidies should be equal in the common market, not that the czech farmer should get less than the italian farmer. and even more importantly, governments should finally come to the understanding in the eu council that the basis of the budget is own resources, own resources, i repeat, own resources. this means that the work of the monti group of experts must be implemented. otherwise, there is no point in this parliament coming together and translating all the minor official languages into all the major ones. thank you!
in writing. the association agreements with georgia and moldova should be reviewed regularly. it is a pleasure to see progress in georgia in terms of democracy, economic and social reforms, which must certainly continue. the visa-free regime with georgia is also a positive step, which creates an opportunity to further promote people-to-people contacts. however, part of georgia's territory remains occupied, which is why it is important for the eu to remain united in its support for georgia and in its common foreign policy towards russia. moldova has made some progress, for example in the financial sector and in the energy sector, but unfortunately there has been a rather regressive development in democratic values. moldova needs to move forward with electoral reform as well as with the promotion of the rule of law, media freedom and civil society. further assistance can certainly depend on moldova's progress in these areas.
mr president, 70 000 years ago, i think, homo sapiens started from africa and met neanderthals somewhere in europe and that is why we have 5% of genes from neanderthals. i think they didn’t have a migration compact, that was the problem! i don’t understand the people who are shouting against the efforts of the united nations – which is a forum for global governance – to organise the global response to geographical, climate—change, economic and other realities. by the way, the geneva conventions were written after the second world war in response to the shock of what europeans could do to one another, and they are unlikely to be up-to-date in terms of dealing with global migration flows. so i don’t see why we should be against the united nations’ effort to organise a response to this problem.
in writing. – elections are the foundation that gives legitimacy to the democratic system as a whole, to the legislature and the executive branch. this is why the exercise of undue influence by foreign malicious actors is such a serious problem: this behaviour seeks to undermine the legitimacy of the entire democratic system by eroding its foundations. in the age of social media and targeted advertising, it becomes more difficult to enforce existing rules, for example the ones forbidding the use of foreign money. the internet does not know national borders; therefore, the sponsor of a politically targeted advertisement (which could even contain blatant lies masquerading as facts or news) could be located anywhere. this is why, as a bare minimum, we need more transparency regarding political targeted advertising: who purchased it and where the target audience is located. it might be healthier to ban political targeted advertising on social media altogether; one thing is to use it to sell commercial goods, but using it to influence or even manipulate the democratic choice of citizens is something entirely different. a comprehensive approach is required, since ‘hacking’ of elections is not limited to actual ballot fraud, but also includes undue manipulation of voters themselves.
mr president, as a veteran of the cold war and a sergeant major of the soviet army, i am obliged to remind colleagues that russian weapons – nuclear in particular – are a bluff. remember submarine kursk and aircraft carrier admiral kuznetsov. but of course we face the problem that one of the security mechanisms of a nuclear conflict has disappeared, and we need to react. the correct reaction has been proposed by president macron and chancellor merkel. let’s create a proper and capable european defence force. that would be enough of a deterrent, and russian nuclear disarmament, together with that of the united states, would follow consequently.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, dear rapporteur, dear commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, and especially dear minister, dear ambassador. let me begin by recalling the council conclusions of last june where the council decided to respond positively to the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia and set out the path towards opening accession negotiations in june 2019. we welcome the european commission’s necessary preparatory work. the country has overcome its deep political crises, including through the continued implementation of the prespa agreement, and has made substantial progress on the urgent reform priorities. this is extremely important for the country’s further progress. let me emphasise that even in the difficult political context, the government has taken significant steps to gradually restore a culture of compromise. it has reached out to all stakeholders, including the opposition, to strengthen democracy and the rule of law and to show a genuine desire to reform in an inclusive and transparent manner. we welcome the changes in the tenor of atmosphere in the country. we also welcome the first concrete progress towards the restoration of the independence of the judiciary, the improvement of the work of the courts, and a follow-up to the work of the special prosecutor’s office, which has started to reverse the backsliding of previous years. let me here recall the need to find a suitable, sustainable solution for the continuation of the work of the special prosecutor’s office. moreover, we share your calls for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to intensify efforts to properly implement the judicial reform strategy and to make further efforts to address the outstanding recommendations. sustained efforts are needed to ensure implementation of all commitments and to ensure that the judiciary can function independently. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has achieved progress on the eu reform agenda and continues its efforts. we encourage it to deepen the reform momentum further, in particular showing real results in key rule of law areas such as the fight against corruption and organised crime, where it needs to further deliver. the institutions in charge of preventing and fighting corruption must have the necessary autonomy and the financial and human resources. the government must also implement other reforms, such as the reform of the intelligence and security services, and of the public administration. the eu will continue to follow these efforts very closely. we take note of the adoption of the public administration reform strategy and the public financial management reform programme and look forward to their implementation. we encourage the government to continue to deepen the current reform momentum, including through plan 18. we welcome the intention to continue working with the opposition parties, civil society and other stakeholders. therefore, a constructive dialogue between all actors is required. we urge all parliamentary parties to put their divisions aside and work jointly on the common strategic goal of eu integration for the benefit of all citizens. the implementation of the name agreement is one major step in this regard. moreover, we welcome the holding of the jean monnet dialogue, initiated by the european parliament, aimed at improving the atmosphere and culture of compromise among the members of the assembly as well as the work of the assembly. we join you in applauding the country for reaching out to its neighbours in the spirit of good neighbourly relations. in particular, the conclusion of the treaty on friendship, good neighbourliness and cooperation with bulgaria, and the signature of the agreement on the name issue with greece, have demonstrated the government’s determination to resolve all outstanding bilateral issues and build good neighbourly relations with all countries in the region. let me finally welcome the continued active participation and the constructive approach of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in different regional initiatives. together these have contributed to an improved regional context.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking the european parliament, in particular the rapporteur, ivo vajgl, for this report. may i also say thank you for your kind words on behalf of my team, not only here in brussels, but also on the ground in skopje, and i would like to include in this our previous ambassador, aivo orav, who also did an excellent and outstanding job. i would also like to use this opportunity to thank the honourable members of the parliament, knut fleckenstein and previously john howarth, but also eduard kukan, who together with ivo vajgl have shown their commitment to move, not only once but many times, to the country and to contribute to resolving the severe political crisis by engaging together with me in the facilitation of the provisional agreement. they also played a key role in the organising of the first chamonix dialogue, which aims at creating an atmosphere of compromise among the political parties in the parliament. these are only a few examples of how this house contributes to reinforcing democratic processes and, hopefully, standards. let me underline that overall this draft reflects the main findings of our 2018 report and the latest developments have shown to be crucial. as you have rightly pointed out, the country has finally overcome its political crisis and is now firmly back on its euro—atlantic path. in the light of the latest developments, let me emphasise that the rule of law is a fundamental principle of the union, for member states and candidate countries alike. after years of backsliding, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia has been making good progress in this area and it’s important that we collectively support this process. i have been impressed by the energy and efforts invested by the government to strengthen good neighbourly relations, in particular with the bilateral treaty with bulgaria and later on with the name agreement reached with greece. this historic agreement sets an example for the region and the union as a whole. it shows that with vision, leadership and determination, the obstacles of the past can be overcome for once and for all. last month, the parliament took a courageous step by initiating the process of constitutional change. we now expect the national procedures for the implementation of the agreement to continue without delay. in our 2018 report, we stated that we were satisfied that the pržino agreement has been largely implemented and that substantial progress has been achieved in the implementation of the urgent reform priorities. therefore, we recommended opening accession negotiations with the country. in june, our member states acknowledged the progress achieved in advancing the eu reforms and set out the path towards opening accession negotiations in june 2019. it’s important that the current reform momentum continues to deepen, primarily in the interests of the citizens. over the coming months we look forward to further progress, in particular in key areas such as judicial reform, the fight against corruption and organised crime, public administration reform and the oversight of intelligence services. all these areas have been identified in the so—called plan 18 of the government. on a very personal note, i welcome the opening of accession talks with nato and look forward to cooperating on key reforms of common interest. finally, let me reiterate the commission’s strong commitment to accompanying the country’s reform efforts to advance on its eu path, including through the technical explanation of the acquis.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, this report is being debated in a hopeful atmosphere and is based on broad political consensus. i think it’s a new spirit of mutual understanding with macedonia’s neighbours that has opened the real eu and nato perspective for this country. it is really high time for this, because in the meantime macedonia has made impressive progress in aligning its legislation with the eu acquis. most importantly, there is now a positive political dynamic. still, it is all about implementation. in the actual context it is vital for the government to prove the judiciary is truly independent and unbiased to avoid any doubts of possible political misuse of it. the media environment has clearly improved but the progress has been modest and more should be done to free especially the investigative press from internal and external influences. to make any progress credible it should firmly rely on cross—party cooperation. broad—based political and moral support for the reforms is the only way to further success.
in writing. there are over 80 million disabled people in the eu, 60% of whom are women. one of the problems of an ageing society is the increasing number of disabled people in old age. 45% of women with disabilities of working age are not active in the labour market. the situation of women with disabilities in employment has also deteriorated compared to men, both in terms of income and social exclusion. two thirds of carers of disabled people are women; 80% of carers of disabled people are unpaid; 75% of them are women. in view of the above, more action is needed to improve the situation of people with disabilities, especially women. technological developments offer many opportunities to increase the inclusion of people with disabilities in the labour market. all persons with disabilities must be able to exercise their rights and be fully integrated into society. in the case of women with disabilities, greater emphasis should be placed on healthcare and sexual and reproductive health rights and greater autonomy for women should be promoted. it is also necessary to raise awareness of the concerns at political level and to do everything possible to remove the barriers to the full life of people with disabilities and to contribute to the promotion of their rights and opportunities in society.
member of the commission. – madam president, i would like to thank the members very much for their comments. once again, i would like to highlight the importance of these texts for the agencies, for the workers, for the employers, and of course – first and foremost – for the european citizens. once adopted by both co-legislators, these regulations will ensure the necessary formal conditions to allow the agencies to continue developing their crucial role as key actors in the field of vocational education and training and skills development; health and safety at work – important for good working conditions; and living and working conditions in europe. all those three are very relevant if we want to implement our european pillar of social rights. by revising these regulations, we committed to giving the agencies the necessary framework to act in today’s world. it is my wish and also my call to you today that we now fulfil our commitment, and that is what our citizens expect from us.
rapporteur. – madam president, in march 2018, the commission and the high representative came forward with the action plan on military mobility, which included a timetable for implementation. the report presented to you today is parliament’s contribution to this crucial security dimension. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation and openness to achieve a positive result. military mobility is about the eu’s credibility to deliver collective security in real terms and time, to defend eu citizens and territory everywhere. according to the old saying, ‘the devil is in the detail’. this applies perfectly to military mobility. nato and the eu have committed themselves to defence and solidarity clauses. now, to make these commitments credible we need a very down-to-earth, practical, well-coordinated and joint effort. this means harmonising all european networks of roads, bridges, tunnels, railways and ports, which will enable the efficient and quick transportation of troops, military equipment and necessary goods across europe. the present situation is problematic, to put it mildly. in fact it is unsatisfactory; there are an impressive number of obstacles, bottlenecks – physical, legal and regulatory – that can prevent vital assistance reaching its destination in time. delays, even for a few days, can change the whole strategic situation. last summer for example, a military vehicle starting from germany needed several days and five specific permits to reach its destination – tallinn, estonia. this is an example of legal and documentary problems while crossing the borders of several member states, and it was just one vehicle in question. we also point to the declining quantity and quality of our rolling stock suitable and available for moving heavy military equipment in conditions of urgency. at the same time, military mobility and its requirements can be seen as a significant civil benefit as it will enable the upgrading of civilian transport corridors, making these more resilient and able to carry heavier loads. the good message is that it is going to be a win-win situation for all sides. the key words in this report are ‘dual-use’. to conclude, efficient and credible military mobility can be achieved only through the total commitment of all member states, in close cooperation with nato. it is absolutely paramount for all partners to understand the following: the eu can coordinate and supplement, but not substitute, concrete efforts by the member states. what is absolutely important is to retain the funding of eur 6.5 billion promised for the specific objective of military mobility from the connecting europe facility. we call on the commission and the member states to adhere strictly to the proposed time limit, which is set out in the action plan. the commission needs to adopt delegated acts by the end of the next year to further specify military requirements and to list priority dual-use infrastructure projects. we call on member states to prepare and adopt by the end of next year their national plans on military mobility with a high priority level.
rapporteur. – madam president, first of all i have to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, who worked in a really good cooperative spirit. according to an oxford study prepared for the commission, in the next 25 years, 30% –almost one third – of today’s jobs in europe will disappear. they simply will not exist anymore. janitors, taxi drivers, postmen and low—skilled workers will be replaced by cleaning-machine operators or robot station managers. this will happen pretty soon, during the lifetime of meps, even taking into account that our average age is 55. when we retire we can allow ourselves to observe changes from the sidelines, but our children and grandchildren will find themselves at the epicentre of this evolution. their level of digital skills will determine not only the welfare of our descendants but also the future of our common project, a united europe. while working on this report, representatives of all the political groups agreed that having or not having digital skills will become the basis of a new social divide in the near future. on the other hand, a high level of digital education will open new opportunities for economic growth. it’s a challenge for which – let’s face it – our education system is not ready. at a time when there is nothing to do on the labour market without a knowledge of programming languages, we are discussing how many more schools in remote areas will receive an internet connection this year. everyone knows that, after graduation, each student must have a certain level of knowledge in mathematics, languages or biology, but we do not have a universal mandatory system for evaluating digital skills. moreover, in europe there is no set of professional requirements for an information technology teacher – and the extent to which teachers use technology in class differs across eu member states like day from night. this report therefore calls on the commission, at least in its next term of office, to develop an eu—wide strategy for education in digital skills. our current approach consists of loose projects from various departments, which are all on a voluntary basis. it is important to set common goals for all member states to reach a certain level of digital skills. if no goals are set, there is little motivation to invest. it is important that digital skills are assessed so that a proper comparison can be made. therefore, the report calls for the creation of an assessment based, for example, on a programme for international student assessment (pisa) model. of course, teachers have to be at the core of this development and they need to be properly trained and assisted. as teachers are already under increasing work pressure, this should not entail extra workload. finally, the approach should be based on lifelong learning. technological development will not stop, and we will have to adapt throughout our lives to new changes. we need to be able to recognise them and to learn how to learn. those unable to adapt will be left behind. this is not only about the labour market: technology has become a part of our daily lives. banking, doing taxes and even health care are becoming more digital. in addition, our social and political lives now develop online. devices have entirely changed not only the way we communicate but also the way we consume information and form our opinions. this all requires skills: media literacy, etiquette online, cyber hygiene and protection of personal information. those who do not know how to use online communications in a proper way will either be easily manipulated or simply left out of political participation. it is crucial to ensure that everyone profits from technological development, and education is the best way to start.
in writing. the agreements with japan (strategic partnership and economic cooperation) will strengthen the eu's bilateral relations with japan. cooperation will be enhanced in a number of areas, such as foreign and security policy, migration, climate change, cyber threats, etc. the fta is the largest such agreement concluded by the eu to date and offers significant opportunities for eu exports, while taking measures to protect the most sensitive products. the contract covers, among other things, cars, public procurement, agricultural products, foodstuffs, etc. the eu-japan joint vision for global challenges includes a comprehensive and coherent approach in the diplomatic, economic, cultural and security fields. japan's role in resolving regional problems is also important, including promoting peace on the korean peninsula, achieving solutions to maritime and territorial disputes in the east china and south china seas, and also building the capacity of asean, for example.
on behalf of the alde group. my dear colleagues! it is clear that europe needs to do much more for its security and defence. and he has to do it in cooperation with nato, so there's no needless competition or duplication. and yet, cooperation with the united states, including, will continue to be of great importance for european security in the future. it is important for us to involve non-nato countries, such as finland and sweden, but also other eu countries in systematic cooperation. and it is important that the european union can contribute effectively to tackling new security threats such as cybersecurity, all sorts of hybrid threats, including, for example, the campaign of fake news or fake news, which manipulates many european societies and works against european cooperation. the fight against terrorism, or the readiness to deal effectively with the so-called green men, as was seen in crimea a few years ago. in summary, europe must finally do much more for its own security and defence, but not in isolation either, but in cooperation with nato and other allies.
mr president, faced with global challenges, the existing eu policies remain clearly inadequate. it is high time to realise this, but the task remains of developing really new policies to address the multiple challenges. in doing this, we cannot dismiss one crucial fact: our security is and will be based primarily on transatlantic relationships. therefore, we need to be careful not to overreact to temporary changes and not undermine the strategic balance on which our collective security is being built. the key is to focus on strategic priorities, and i would just mention two of them. firstly, to enforce and fully integrate the east stratcom task force. secondly, the military mobility adopted today by parliament will become a reality check for our commitment to credible mutual assistance.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, yes, rather disturbing news from the christmas market and i would like to express my confidence in the french police who will be managing, investigating and clearing up the situation. but the budget – parliament set up some priorities – science, youth, smes, the climate, real causes of migration, and defence and security – the latter is the well forgotten ‘old aspect’ newly in our budget, and i am very pleased that we finally are moving on that area, be it military mobility, be it stratcom in the external action service, etc. now the laudato part of my speech: i have never seen such good rapporteurs during my long experience in the committee on budgets, and i would like the austrian presidency, in particular, to report to its government that you are a lucky country, you have paul rübig elected here and i will get the same message to the italian government about mr viotti. and finally, to mr oettinger: without you, commissioner, we wouldn’t be here where we are today.
mr president, i actually have a question. we are all aware of the evil events at the christmas market in strasbourg. we are continuing to establish here the important connecting europe facility, but unfortunately we are not allowed to leave this building. i would like to protest with all my heart against this kind of arrangement. we are not cowards. we are not intending to disturb any police operation. we are free people. (the president cut off the speaker)
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for a very interesting and controversial debate – very controversial! first of all, let me tell you that i disagree with those who are blaming the commission. absolutely. of course, we all are responsible, of that there is no doubt, and we know very well that we need to do more. but don’t blame each other, don’t blame the commission, because we are deeply involved in this – the commission is dealing every day with the issues and we are aware of the many problems. the european union responded promptly to the situation: humanitarian funding amounting to eur 2 million was allocated to the emergency needs of refugees and migrants present in bosnia and herzegovina. this assistance is channelled through humanitarian partners, such as united nations agencies, and covers the provision of food, clothing, blankets, hygiene items, health services, protection and emergency shelters. of course, we know very well that there is a dangerous situation now due to the climate in winter time. the commission has allocated up to eur 7.2 million to increase the capacity for identification, registration and protection of migrants, to support the bosnia and herzegovina border police and to provide adequate accommodation for the winter period. it has continued providing significant support to bosnia and herzegovina, including to the municipalities affected by the current migration flows. this recent support is in addition to the eur 24.6 million that the eu has granted since 2007 to bosnia and herzegovina in the area of migration and border management. let me assure you that the commission is in contact with the croatian government concerning the implementation of the european asylum procedure rules, including with regard to allegations of misinformation or of denying non-eu nationals the possibility of applying for asylum. we need to continue that investigation. while the commission will continue to monitor this situation we trust that croatia will follow up on the specific allegations and will continue to cooperate closely with bosnia and herzegovina. at the same time, the commission would point out that bosnia and herzegovina needs to step up its efforts in effectively coordinating the response and enhancing the implementation of its own asylum procedures. and croatia needs to support the bosnia and herzegovina government in strengthening its capacity to solve the problem. finally, let me underscore the importance of mutual coordination, and assure you that the commission is making serious efforts to avoid a deterioration of the situation on the ground. we are doing what we can.
author. – mr president, i think it’s symbolic for the existing human rights situation in iran that even a prominent human rights defender and receiver of the sakharov prize six years ago, nasrin sotoudeh, has been kept in custody now for more than half a year for publicly opposing iranian compulsory hijab law. this is happening against the background of countrywide popular protests, which have continued throughout 2018. i can only quote amnesty international’s latest report seven days ago, which says: ‘iran is in the grip of a multifaceted crisis that is rooted in the confluence of severe political, economic, environmental and human rights problems. [...] in response, the authorities have been widening the net of repressions.’ it is not any more about small groups of protesters, but about widespread strikes by truck drivers, teachers, environmental activists, workers, students and national and religious minorities, who stand up against the dramatically worsening economic and social conditions, against corruption and political repressions. we demand therefore, first and foremost, the immediate release of nasrin sotoudeh. however, just appealing and asking will not be enough. to have a real impact on the behaviour of iranian rulers, the european commission and member states’ governments need to implement unanimously and forcefully the recipe the european parliament formulated a long time ago. the recipe of resolution stresses once more today that any progress in economic and political relations should be strictly conditional on a credible improvement of the human rights situation, citizens’ rights and freedom of expression. nothing less. the eu can make a difference, provided we can strike a principle link between realpolitik and universal values.
