mr president, climate change has been on the agenda so often that now that we have to act, we have to be ambitious. firstly, the directive on energy efficiency. a clean kilowatt is a saved kilowatt and it's still domestic. it's the most painless way to save energy efficiency! the ambitious 35% target is in line with the energy performance of buildings directive, which we completed in trilogues just before christmas. emissions need to be reduced now and in the long term! when we talk about energy, don't be so down on talking about electricity. we also have to take into account transportation and heating. unfortunately, in europe, cars don't turn into electric cars in three years. yet we still have to tackle the almost 40% of transport emissions and energy consumption. sustainable bio-products and biofuels therefore now have a role to play in climate action. we will be managing forests with lulucf and we must therefore support sustainable forest management as part of climate action. the itre baseline also provides a good definition of sustainability for new biofuels. it shall support raw materials not derived from food production or feed-based products.
mr president, it is important that we set the 2030 targets with sufficient ambition, but also with realism, and above all that we make the european energy market more efficient, more transparent and more market-oriented. i would now like to highlight two points relating to the renewable energy directive. firstly, finland and sweden are the leading renewable energy countries in europe, thanks to their large forestry industry, precisely because we are efficient in using industrial waste streams, waste and residues for renewable energy. now the environment committee wants to impose new limits on the energy use of wood. it's not reasonable. it is still good that wood can be used efficiently when it is not otherwise suitable also for energy. the second question concerns sustainable biofuels. we should abandon the approach of listing the permitted raw materials and start with the acceptance of fuels that have been produced sustainably as advanced biofuels. this would support research, development and innovation in this sector.
in writing. the renewable energy directive is one of the most important eu measures to achieve significant emission reductions. we, the legislators, decide on climate action, but the real climate work is done by europe's citizens and businesses, from small to large. for this reason, climate policy must be consistent and far-sighted. getting companies involved in climate work and creating new innovations requires that we don't change the rules of the game every few years. one important part of the renewable energy mix is bioenergy produced from wood-based biomass. it is absolutely essential that this parliament should support the sustainable and responsible use of wood. the sustainability criteria for the energy use of wood shall be based on national forestry legislation. the market must allow the timber components to be directed to the most valuable uses within the framework of agreed rules and policy objectives. the production of bioenergy does not need more eu bureaucracy. the most important thing to remember is that achieving climate goals requires breaking the dependence on fossil fuels. europe's forest resources are greater than ever, so we can sustainably increase the use of wood-based raw materials for transport, electricity and heating.
in writing. climate change is happening much faster than scientists have been able to model. to mitigate climate change and achieve the paris agreement, europe and the world need to do twice as much and set twice as ambitious targets. the eu's climate policy initiatives on renewable energy, energy efficiency and the governance of the energy union are at the heart of europe's response to this challenge. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the eu's energy policy. the establishment of a hierarchy of uses will help to avoid raw materials that could be used for other purposes and then burned ending up as subsidised bioenergy.
in writing. parliament has already made a number of progresses in the revision of the renewable energy directive. the report proposes, among other things, to raise the target for renewable energy from the 27% proposed by the commission to 35%. ambitious targets like this are essential to mitigating climate change. the raw materials used to achieve the target level of renewable energy are relevant. the use of coconut oil as a feedstock for biofuels is not climate-sensitive. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties on the compatibility of the aid with the internal market. at the same time, it can create new jobs and boost economic growth. we should be critical of raw materials which, when used directly for energy, release large amounts of carbon into the atmosphere. hundreds of scientists worldwide have argued in favor of the idea. i hope that the waste hierarchy will be applied to the use of forest biomass. for example, wood can be used first for higher-processing products, where it binds carbon for a longer time, and only then for energy production or biofuel. in a circular economy, the application of the waste hierarchy is not problematic. this does not mean a total ban on the use of forest biomass for energy and biofuel, but the objective must be to make sustainable use of forests from a carbon perspective.
madam president, macro-regional strategy is probably one of the most effective policy tools the commission and eu have to maximise the effect of their policies. i would like to see a greater emphasis on clean transport, clean energy, the fight against climate change and concrete actions on the circular economy. a good example of this scale of projects is the tallinn tunnel, in the baltic region, that will link finland to the rest of europe via railway. that’s why i hope that the funding could be geared more on these kind of macro-regional efforts and joint projects in the future.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank my colleague, mr faria, for his excellent report. i would like to repeat my earlier position that the eu definitely has to be in the lead in creating better international ocean governance and an internationally binding convention that is system-wide and covers different fields. it would cover overfishing of fish stocks, marine conservation areas, action needed to preserve biodiversity, combat acidification and chemicalisation of the seas. of course, action is needed on safer precautionary principles, not forgetting micro-plastics, which is one of the most urgent and newest challenges. there is a lot to tackle in the future, but best of luck and courage to the commission in starting this as soon as possible.
mr president, i would also like to thank mr faria for his excellent report. we know that marine litter is one of the biggest and growing environmental problems, and that a big factor is plastic. ninety-five percent of the world's plastic is used only once and then thrown away. much of it ends up on land or in the sea. every year, tons of plastic waste end up in the sea, and plastic bottles and plastic bags are a big part of it. to reduce these, global action is needed. it is good that plastic bags are now being made payable in europe at large or that there are efforts to reduce them. the bottle-bottle system also needs to be developed. my own country, finland, is a good example of this. we have a decades-old market-based bottle leasing system that results in 92 percent of plastic bottles being recycled. we need to get this spread across europe. one concrete step will undoubtedly be to ban microplastics in hygiene products. the commission's plastics strategy, to be published this week, will therefore become a very important necessity.
madam president, we just had the debate about climate change, climate justice and women, and as shadow rapporteur of the report, i would like to underline two facts that were raised in the discussion already. firstly, climate change is not gender-neutral. women are affected more. women are living in more vulnerable areas and in poverty, but there is another side of the coin, and that is that women are half of the planet. they are a huge resource in solving climate change issues. what we need to do is empower women, and that means carrying out gender-impact analyses in all the climate and economic policies, developing the concept of climate justice, ensuring parity in decision-making, be it by delegations or other decision-making areas in climate change, and then of course in their private lives in their consumption choices.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, trade and sustainable development chapters in our trade agreements are relatively new, but we already have some experience from agreements with korea, colombia and peru. this is indeed a good moment to take stock of those experiences and it is commendable that you, madam commissioner, have opened a discussion on this topic and that you are open to input on various options. obviously trade agreements are not done in a vacuum, but they should be in line with other – may i even dare to say – more important policies, but please don’t take me wrong. the un’s agenda 2030 which mr goerens mentioned is the overall framework that needs to guide our trade policy, as well as other eu policies. primacy of human rights, social rights, as well as climate agreements, environmental questions, should be the norm in eu trade agreements, and the sustainable development chapters are definitely a great addition, but i believe that without legal enforcement, they lack teeth and here i disagree with epp and ecr speakers who seem to be talking about a more kind of soft way. we do have mechanisms in trade policy. we have the gsp+. it does have the possibility to waive the benefits that we have given to our trade partners if things go the other way and against eu values, so i think it is only normal that when we talk about legal enforcement there will be some consequences. it could also be incentives when things go well in terms of social protection and environmental norms. i believe that we can no longer afford to continue putting environmental and social considerations into a second class category. environmental and social obligations need to be on an equal footing with commercial interests. there needs to be a balance of interests. finally, when we include binding and enforceable obligations in our trade agreements, these obligations obviously go both ways. the eu must also be accountable for its actions, and this is the core idea of the agenda 2030, the sustainable development goals, which are universal. we must be ready to demand the same from ourselves as we demand from our trade partners.
mr president, unfortunately it was not at all clear when we proceeded to the voting on amendment 240 cp and the article. on our list, for example, it was not clear at all.
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, it is a fact that russia's strategic communications in europe are extensive and that aggressive behaviour on the networks has increased. let's talk about the information war. the fact is, of course, that information warfare has always existed, both in times of peace and in times of war. relations between the european union and russia are bad and inflamed. in this context, i would actually ask the honourable members to do everything possible to ensure that there is a dialogue between the duma and the european parliament. there's no money at the moment. but this one. what can we do now to combat disinformation and fake news? as has been shown here, the european union's strategic communication must be strengthened and given more resources. but also the media, social media, investigative journalism, think tanks and ngos, all have a role to play in helping people to distinguish between fact and lies. and as has been said here, media literacy is very important now. the european union cannot do it alone, the member states must also be involved. the great news was that swedish prime minister stefan löfven announced last week at the selene security conference that sweden would be setting up a psychological defense unit. as the european union is now strengthening its own defence, we too must set up a psychological defence unit - let that be the key word.
mr president, we did not put youth unemployment on the european agenda in vain. let's hope the worst is over. in five years, youth unemployment has fallen from 24 percent to 16 percent. the eu's youth guarantee, youth employment initiative and european social fund have all been helping to tackle youth unemployment. in my own country, finland, the social fund has also been funding a one-stop shop for young people, the ohjaamo project. for the next programming period, we need to continue to work to eradicate youth unemployment. particularly needing action are disabled people, school-leavers, immigrants or young people in other more vulnerable situations at risk of exclusion. i'd like to leave three of them healthy as we go develop the next one. the use of resources must be efficient, the quality of training, employment or education must be high and the work must be remunerated. that quality means that these actions lead to further studies or permanent employment. thirdly, information and guidance are very important. it's good to listen to young people themselves when they're planning.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 18 january 2018. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item on the agenda is the commission statement on the decision on the plastics strategy (2018/2508 ((rsp)).
mr president, it is not easy to bring together national practices and interests in this important european idea, which is concerned with skills and the raising of the level of skills, the movement of people, the functioning of the internal market and the competitiveness that all these things bring. competitiveness is the result of a high level of competence and the mobility of citizens. in this respect, the rapporteur, mr danti, has succeeded in producing a very balanced report. it is indeed, quite frankly, shameful and inexcusable that the member states have not yet implemented the occupational quality directive and it is therefore very important that the implementation now be as transparent as possible and that comparison and a common objective be sought, precisely because european competitiveness based on the level of skills and human rights are increasing.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 18 january 2018. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the motion for a resolution on the cases of six human rights activists, namely wu gan, xie yang, lee ming-chen, tashi wangchuk and choekyi, a tibetan monk (2018/2514 ((rsp)).
jo leinen, i gave you a little extra time, which i shouldn't have, but at least you're the chair of the chinese delegation.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place at the end of the debate today. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the democratic republic of the congo (2018/2515 ((rsp)).
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 18 january 2018. (the sitting was suspended at 11.45 a.m.) written declarations (rule 162)
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we all know that the ecb plays a crucial role, and sometimes more crucial than we actually understand at a given moment. everybody still remembers the phrase ‘whatever it takes’. if that phrase hadn’t been pronounced i think we would have been much worse off than we are today. so we do have a lot of respect for the independent nature of the bank, but at the same time we of course need some democratic scrutiny, and i therefore appreciate that mr draghi is here with us today. in the report we have here in front of us, i think we have been able to strike a fairly good balance, with a balanced tone. mr draghi and the ecb have done a fairly good job and they have been playing a very important role in addressing the crisis. but it is also important to point out that actions taken by the ecb sometimes fall short of what member states need. at the same time this is probably also a good point to say that the member states don’t always do what they should to increase the resilience of the system. i think we are heading towards more normal interest rates. that would be a great improvement. i therefore think that the next report by the european central bank will be much more interesting than the one we have been reading now, because you are going to be placed in a situation where you have to make some very tricky decisions on how to stop helicopter money. i wish you the best.
in writing. in the light of the euro area growth figures, the euro has been saved. the rescue remains strongly supported by both monetary policy and investment demand recovery. the rescue may be a short-term gain at the expense of long-term unemployment, and prove to be a heavy burden when wealth bubbles burst and a new crisis begins. in the long term, saving the euro requires a functioning euro area with efficient markets and a price mechanism that guides the allocation of resources. only on the basis of a functioning market can sustainable competitiveness be built without the continuing massive monetary policy stimulus of the ecb. in practice, saving the euro requires, among other things, a single labour market in the euro area. different languages, cultures and practices create barriers which, like other barriers to the internal market, should be addressed in the relevant context in this report as well, rather than focusing on politically expedient problems.
this conversation is over. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the report by julie girling, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2003/87/ec to promote cost-effective emission reductions and low-carbon investments (com ((2015) 0337 - c8-0190/2015 - 2015/0148 ((cod)) (a8-0003/2017).
i have to say something about the previous speech. representative korwin -mike, you said that everyone who's making this decision is going to jail, and that's probably something that you couldn't say in this room.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place on tuesday 6 february 2018.
the next item is the report by mr jerzy buzek, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the acceleration of clean energy innovation (2017/2084(ini)) (a8-0005/2018)
at this point, i regret to inform you that the evening has progressed to the point where i cannot grant catch-the-eye speaking engagements.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place on tuesday 6 february 2018. written declarations (rule 162)
the following motion for a resolution is on the agenda of the commission of 13 december 2017 on the delegated regulation amending delegated regulation (eu) 2016/1675 supplementing directive (eu) 2015/849 of the european parliament and of the council by adding sri lanka, trinidad and tobago and tunisia to the table in point i of the annex, tabled by marie-christine vergiat, cornelia ernst, marisa matias, merja kyllönen, helmut scholz, barbara spinelli and lola sánchez caldentey on behalf of the gue/ngl group, in accordance with rule 105 (3) of the rules of procedure (c(2017) 8320 - 2017/3020d ((ea8-0074/2018)):
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 105 (3) of the rules of procedure1. the vote will take place on wednesday 7 february 2018. the following table is presented in order of appearance: see minutes of the sitting.
the agenda will then be followed by a minute's speaking time on a matter of political importance, in accordance with rule 163.
the case is closed.
mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister for a very good speech. croatia is a success story in many ways and it is great that you are ready to act as a bridge-builder for the entire balkan region as your neighbours strive towards membership of the european union. but i think that, while we are talking about the future of the eu, we must now tackle two issues in particular as members of the european union. the second concerns european values. we know that unfortunately we have at the moment member states which do not respect our common values of human dignity and respect for human rights, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law, which are among the main objectives of the eu. the second question is that once we have made a decision, the member states must comply with it. we know there's a problem. until these issues are corrected, the eu cannot regain its credibility. we must be able to react more quickly to these matters, and now that the eu financial framework is being reformed, are you prepared to see these countries, which do not follow the common rules, cutting funding in the future?
the next item on the agenda is the vote.
mr coburn, i can assure you that the debate and the hearing have been conducted in the committee on legal affairs, but i take note of what you have said.
that concludes the vote.
thank you, mr korwin-mikke. i would now like to give the floor to the rapporteur, ms thun und hohenstein, for her reaction.
in writing. there are two types of work that must be done in the eu to end female genital mutilation: prevention and assistance to victims. i'm talking about the latter. in many eu countries, circumcision is taboo in the mutilation community and rarely discussed in public. for example, where can a child turn if he has been mutilated, either very young or later? there may be no one among your schoolmates who can understand, and it may not be a good feeling to tell the school nurse or the teacher. eu countries must actively promote peer support networks. teenage mutilated people especially need others in their situation and adults with whom they can discuss the matter. in addition, all member states are obliged to map the prevalence of mutilation and to train health professionals to confront mutilations and to advise on physical and mental health issues related to mutilation. in addition, it is necessary to ensure that the mutilated know where to get help and information. the most important thing, of course, is to stop the mutilation!
the question of the blue card. mr president, the previous speaker said that when the number of member states in the union decreases, so does the size of parliament, and that is what this motion for a resolution does. we don't allocate all the seats, so we can save some money. my own country, finland, has been a member for more than 20 years now, and when we started there were 17 of us and now there are 13. this allocation of seats would give us one more seat, and yet it is still perfectly logical also in terms of how many people each map represents. the same political group has just said that germany will not get any more seats and malta will have twice the representation. i hope that your group does not think that malta should have only half the representatives or zero representatives. i think it's important that we maintain this kind of relativity here. it makes perfect sense.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when finland became independent 100 years ago, a problem arose regarding the cultural autonomy of åland. it was solved in 1921 by the league of nations, perhaps one of the few things the league of nations managed to solve, and it has guaranteed åland's autonomy and its development. when finland became a member of the european union, some of the powers of åland's self-government were transferred to the eu, which meant that ålanders had fewer opportunities and fewer opportunities to influence the decision-making process. for this reason we are now calling for an electoral system which would give these autonomous regions a better chance of defending their interests. at the same time, we would like to remind all members present that there are some 50 minorities in europe, most of whom are badly treated by their central states. it is therefore really a question of creating a more functioning and well-ordered democracy within the european union.
mr president, brexit gives us a historic opportunity to reduce the size of the european parliament, to make decision-making more efficient and more responsible. i am not in favour of supranational lists because i believe that they do not increase democracy, on the contrary, they alienate voters from meps. i would argue that the essence of democracy is that we have a link between meps and the european parliament and the citizens. the transnational lists are alienating citizens and parliament, and this is in no one's interest. it could also create two-tiered people amongst us meps. when you listen to the debate here, we who are opposed to transnational lists are afraid or are not good europeans. and then, if the division has been accomplished, then this... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the development of inequality begins at its worst in childhood. children of disadvantaged parents are increasingly disadvantaged in their own lives, with no chance of social advancement. it is therefore of paramount importance that quality public day care and school provide a common starting point for all children, regardless of their family background. the demands of self-direction at elementary school age and the rigors of working life later on will displace many. we here in the european parliament, the commission and the member states should constantly be thinking about how we can reduce the growing inequalities. the best way to do this is to ensure that all children have the most equal starting points from pre-school to day care and to reduce learning gaps. we can all contribute to this by developing services for families with children and educational structures and practices in our countries.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, owing to the efforts of the european parliament and its very competent rapporteur, ms eider gardiazabal rubial, we have seen improvements through this decision. in particular, the improvements with regard to transparency, to tax justice and climate spending are very positive outcomes. now we need to monitor to make sure that these requirements are effectively implemented. it is very important that now it is mentioned explicitly that the aim is, above all, to address the root causes of migration. let’s be honest: this means good, sound development policy, eradication of poverty, combating other global challenges and the eu and agenda 2030 sustainable development goals really need to be internalised and understood properly by the european investment bank (eib), especially if it wishes to have a more prominent role in eu development policy. i would also like to see the energy lending criteria be very much taken care of. we need to make sure that the paris climate agreement is implemented. we are very happy – it could have been better but it is already very good – that we have the 35% climate-proofing mentioned in that decision. the world bank has announced that it will not finance upstream oil and gas projects after 2019. i think this is something that the eib also should consider.
mr president, summertime is a historical relic of the 1970s, when savings were sought in the face of rising energy costs. now, we can see that these energy cost savings are very marginal. however, the summertime arrangements have been studied to have many negative effects. we should not here talk about ourselves, about healthy people who work hard, but we should look at the human internal clock, which has shown that man does not easily adapt to the twice-yearly clock change. young children, the elderly, and the sick are particularly affected. we also bear responsibility for them. the sunlight changes every few minutes. we all know how different it is in different seasons in the south and the north, but this show is a man-made, politically determined, artificial shift of the hour twice a year. we the people can also politically decide to end it, because we have made that decision to move it. the initiative proposes that the commission submit to parliament and the council a more detailed proposal on summertime arrangements. after that, as now, each member state can decide which time zone it belongs to, and also whether to stay in summer or winter time. however, both resolutions clearly state that the european union's line must be a united one, with all countries either ending the migration or - if the majority wishes - not yet doing so. i ask you, colleagues, to support those who have trouble sleeping and to make it possible to give up the summer time.
mr president, at the beginning of the term the commission promised to be big on big things and small on small things. it is high time that we showed that it could be at least that average in this respect. the further north you go, the greater the differences in the 24 hours. i can tell you that the sun set on the uzi river on november 26 and rose again on january 16. if anyone in the commission believes that moving the clock here and there will have an effect on utsjo, then welcome to reality, you have no knowledge of it. if the sun does not set on berlaymont, it will rise on the utsjo river on may 17, after which it will set on july 26. if you think you can make a difference, welcome back!
mr president, believe it or not, banana flies are very much involved in this debate. in fact, last year's nobel prize winners in medicine, hall, rosbash, and young, studied the circadian rhythms and the internal clock of banana flies and found that the biological clock of humans is also amazingly precise and sensitive. interfering with it could have far-reaching consequences. now, twice a year, the internal clock is disrupted by the movement of clocks. this causes many people health problems and sleep problems. the european union must get rid of the movement of clocks. no further studies are needed to support this conclusion, as many have been found over the years. i sent you, ladies and gentlemen, 60 references this morning, and the conclusions of studies from all over the world are unusually clear. there is no benefit in moving clocks, but there is a great deal of harm. i hope that this decision is based on research data rather than personal feelings.
mr president, if the commission were to bring forward a proposal for a directive now, proposing that we should start moving clocks twice a year, i believe that that directive would be absolutely blown up. it would be considered completely insane. for once, time has passed for this kind of clock shifting. we know that the idea of moving the directive and the clocks back in time was to save energy. however, energy efficiency and technology have advanced greatly since then, and today it is known that shifting clocks does not provide the energy saving benefits mentioned, but instead numerous studies show how much harm it causes to human health, the welfare of domestic animals, agriculture, road safety, etc. several of these areas have been identified. when we consider the usefulness and importance of this directive today, we must look at the benefits and the drawbacks it brings. it is suggested that the matter should be further investigated and clarified. we know that this has been studied and examined for many years at international level in various member states, and now we should take the decision to repeal that directive.
blue-card question. – vice-president liberadzki, i talked about banana flies – fruit flies i think the word is in english – and i did so because the nobel prize for medicine winners concluded that the internal bio-clock of banana flies is not that different from that of humans. would you be prepared to study that result and maybe take some conclusions from that? so would you then agree that maybe fruit flies are relevant for this discussion?
the author. mr president, we are dealing here with the recent arrest of the head of the chechen memorial foundation on trumped-up charges. marijuana was found in his possession, and people who know mr. titiyev say it's much more likely that he was involved in napoleon's murder than that drugs were found on him. and unfortunately this is part of a series of different illegalities that are taking place in chechnya and that the memorial organization in particular has suffered from. in fact, this arrest of titiyev was followed by an arson in their office in the ingush capital of nazran, and then this violence spread to the dagestan memorial office. we have to defend titiev because he has won the sakharov prize and this is completely illegal.
mr president, in paragraph 8, which deals with political pressure on journalists, i propose to add one sentence: urges turkey to drop charges against a finnish-turkish journalist, ayla albayrak, who has been convicted by the turkish court in absentia.
mr president, today is my last day as a member of this honourable institution. tomorrow i take up my duties as a member of the european court of auditors in luxembourg. i have served this institution as a member for 13 enjoyable years, and, whilst welcoming the challenges and opportunities the next six years will bring, i am of course leaving with a certain regret. i would like to place on record my thanks and gratitude to you, mr president, to your predecessors, to my fellow members and to the able and competent staff of this institution. thank you. (applause)
in writing. i would like to thank the commission for the active dialogue it has been seeking with poland over the last few years, but unfortunately the dialogue has not produced results. the commission has therefore reached the perfectly correct conclusion in proposing the initiation of article 7 (1) measures. when they joined the european union, all eu countries committed themselves to upholding the fundamental european values of respect for human dignity and human rights, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law. these are the values we must uphold. the european parliament already stated in its resolution in november that there is a risk that poland will violate eu values, including the rule of law. it is a question of respect for the principles of separation of powers, the independence of the judiciary and fundamental rights. the commission has done its best, but now we need strong support from the member state. poland is in danger of slipping away from european values, and this cannot be allowed to happen. these are the eu's most important founding principles. the council of ministers must now act swiftly in accordance with the provisions of article 7 (1) of the treaty on european union. at the same time, it is necessary to reform eu rules so that similar breaches of the rule of law can be tackled more quickly and effectively in the future. the freezing of eu funds from a member state which is seriously in breach of the rules should also be used as a means.
in writing. the banking union annual report deals with the completion of emu. in practice, this is a deepening of economic and monetary union towards greater solidarity in the debts and liabilities of banks, which i cannot support. the extension of the joint guarantee also includes a deposit guarantee scheme covering the whole of the euro area. the level of problems faced by banks varies greatly from one country to another and the average figures in the annual report do not give a good indication of the overall situation. in many countries, such as italy, the banking sector is fraught with enormous risks. in principle, the banking union has moved to rescuing banks with the money of the owners. the commission notes that the bank of greece has not provided any evidence that the bank of greece has been able to achieve a return on its investment in the bank of greece. the problem loans must be thoroughly investigated and the balance sheets of the banks cleaned up before we can even discuss the transition to a common deposit guarantee scheme. without these measures, talk of protecting taxpayers' money is empty promises.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, thank you to all those who are sincerely involved in the important work against tax evasion. the numerous tax scandals, such as luxleaks and the panama papers, have created a buzz that has been the basis for much work to prevent tax evasion. the latest paradise papers leak showed how much work is still being done. the proposal for a mandatory automatic exchange of information on crossborder tax arrangements, dac6 for short, extends administrative cooperation in the field of taxation. those who plan or promote cross-border tax arrangements, such as banks and tax advisers, will be required to report suspicious tax arrangements to the tax authorities before they are introduced. the proposal requires the provision of information to the european commission and to the tax authorities of the member states. dac6 is a necessary reform, but one may ask whether it is sufficient. the functioning of the exchange of information must therefore be closely monitored. if this reform is not enough, we must return to the matter in a timely manner.
in writing. the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council for the 62nd session of the united nations commission on the status of women on eu priorities is important. the theme of the session is the challenges and opportunities for achieving gender equality and the empowerment of rural women and girls. equality is one of the values on which the eu is founded. the eu must actively promote equality between women and men both within the eu and internationally. the un's influence is essential in this sector. improving gender equality requires attention to a number of different sectors. equal, gender-neutral access to healthcare, education and decision-making are examples of areas where focus can improve gender equality. education is a key factor in making a long-term, effective contribution to gender equality. it is good that attention has been paid to the disproportionate negative impact of climate change and its consequences on rural women and girls. the proposal states that there is a direct link between gender inequality and environmental pollution and that rural women can contribute to the transition to sustainable and ecologically sound agriculture. the environmental dimension is one reason why gender equality needs to be promoted outside our own local area. action to improve the status of women and girls is essential. the international debate must demand the guarantee of a decent standard of living and the reduction of poverty, the increase of educational opportunities, the elimination of gender discrimination and violence and the equalization of the gender pay gap. people should have equal opportunities regardless of gender.
mr president, there have been strong arguments that the important appointment of the commission was not in accordance with the rules. it is of the utmost importance to the european taxpayer that the best candidates are always chosen for all posts, without discrimination or favouritism. the least the commission can do in this situation is to tell the truth about how this appointment came about, whether and how the matter can be corrected. political appointments are corruption. is this the direction the commission wants to take in developing the european union?
in writing. equality between women and men has not been achieved in any country. women and men still have different social status. women are underrepresented in many decision-making positions. if women and girls are not at the negotiating table to participate in the decision-making that affects them, there is a risk of not understanding the different impacts of decisions on women and men. the eu should show leadership in respecting gender equality and in ensuring a high level of protection of fundamental workers' and environmental rights in trade policy. all eu trade agreements must include an ambitious and feasible chapter on trade and sustainable development. this is in line with the eu treaty, which states that 'the union shall aim to eliminate inequalities between men and women and to promote equality between men and women in all its activities'.
mr president, this regulation on crossborder parcel services is indeed a welcome step towards a more efficient internal market and a good follow-up to the recently adopted ban on land-based restrictions, or geo-blocking. it is clear that high delivery charges are one of the biggest barriers to online shopping from other member states, as sending a parcel between eu countries can cost up to five times more than sending it within the country. this change will hopefully now enable us to boost online trade and increase transparency and efficiency in the eu's internal market. but while we are putting the internal market in order in this respect, i would like to point out one major weakness, and that is the encroachment of chinese online shops on the european market. i know that commissioner ansip is very familiar with this issue and that the main factor here is the developing country tariff for chinese mail. it is now distorting competition in the european e-commerce market to a considerable extent. is there anything the commission is planning to do quickly on this matter?
for the gue/ngl group mr president, first of all i would like to thank peter lundgren for his good cooperation and all the shadow colleagues on this important matter. it is very valuable that we have uniform eu-wide rules for the conduct of the profession of driver. these common rules should be reviewed and updated to reflect technical and technological developments in the equipment. i consider the reform in hand to be relevant, particularly with regard to road safety and the environment. road safety requires that we, the decision-makers, work continuously and remain vigilant. every accident, worst case, a traffic fatality, is too much. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we have uniform models and qualification requirements for the driver profession at eu level. this will ensure safe transport from one country to another, regardless of where the driver has been trained. as for teaching theory, i wish we had the courage to go one step further. i would have thought it wiser if the eu had looked a little more into the future with regard to the use of e-learning. in particular, in sparsely populated areas with long distances, i believe that electronic theory teaching should be able to be used more flexibly and more widely in the future.
mr president, digitalisation and, in particular, the interactive intelligent transport systems we are talking about now, offer a very good opportunity to create safer, more efficient, smoother and cleaner transport in the future. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work and the other shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation. i would like to draw attention to two points in particular in this report. the second concerns the various technologies that we now have at our disposal. i think it is very good that we have chosen a technology-neutral approach to this, because we have to take into account that the vehicle fleet is renewing very slowly and that for a long time we will be in a situation where we have existing vehicles on the road, connected vehicles and possibly fully autonomous vehicles, and all of them must be able to operate safely on the road. so we need to take an approach where all the technologies can work together. the second concerns access to data. today, vehicles collect a huge amount of data, which is valuable. i am glad that we have reached the point where we want the commission to come forward by the end of this year with a proposal on the conditions under which others can also use this data and thus create innovation.
madam president, thanks for the innovative work we have done together with this important issue. i think the biggest thing is that we are enabling things to happen. we are enabling legislation. we do not find problems, we find solutions: together, hearing what people are asking for, what their worries are, what kind of problems there are already, and what we need to share. we need to share info, and for that we need all the platforms where we can easily share information, and also where we can share the big data, which is very important with the ict. when we can share good practice, then we can do good work for the customers and for the environment too, so let’s find solutions with the enabling way.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – mr president, first of all, let me congratulate commissioner oettinger on the very solid and sound speech that we have just heard. this is exactly what we need. my sincere thanks and congratulations to all the rapporteurs and shadows for the two reports – you have done an excellent job – but the key point is this: europe needs a strong budget and a strong mff. we have a lot of challenges ahead of us. we are actually facing more serious challenges than we have ever faced since the birth of this union, and therefore we have to do more together and we have to do more together especially in those things where we can deliver more and get more. this means that we will have to emphasise the clear added value of the eu in the mff, along with proper controls. on top of all this, we have to draw a line: with no respect for european values, there will be no european money. all this we have to be able to do without forgetting the traditional tasks. this is no small order.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, a healthy environment is a prerequisite for all well-being. the eu has made commitments and set targets in climate and environmental policy, as well as in sustainable development. it is essential that the use of the union's money should also be in line with these objectives. the next financial framework period must be prepared in such a way that these objectives can be met. the commission must present a proposal respecting these objectives. and now a few words from outside the environment committee: i think that the 1% and 3% funding levels proposed in the report are unrealistic. it even exceeds the commission's estimates of the financial need. the budget deficit caused by brexit is a major challenge. in reality, it means a smaller budget. we can take advantage of the situation by critically reviewing all the eu's financing needs.
mr president, there is not much that can be said about structural problems in the multiannual financial framework in one minute, but i will try. there is a very interesting study out there: ‘economic challenges of lagging regions’, and there is a case study in that study about campania. campania is the region around naples. there is a saying about naples – see naples and then die. as soon as the cohesion funds come to naples, they die. naples has been part of the system for sixty years, since the start of the regional and structural funds, and still today naples is lagging behind. a normal person with normal intelligence and a person with normal intelligence in the commission should probably understand that this form of structural funds doesn’t work. (the speaker continues to speak in german)das geht nicht so weiter! und ich glaube und ich hoffe, dass kommissar oettinger das ein wenig verbessert.
mr president, i would like to draw the commissioner’s attention to one concern that my group and i have. we saw last week a paper, probably leaked, that the commission is planning to combine 12 external instruments into one. my question to the commissioner is: do you have a proper impact assessment on what this means for attaining, for instance, development effectiveness goals? what does it mean for defending such wonderful, very focused, rather small instruments as the european instrument for democracy and human rights? what does it mean for the goals that we want to achieve through the instrument contributing to stability and peace? my concern is that this new idea, which i think to some extent seems to be a response to the need for flexibility, will be a big mistake. i understand that flexibility is needed, but i don’t think it should be done like this. i also believe that the european parliament will lose a lot of its scrutiny rights if you do that.
mr president, when discussing the eu financial framework, the impact of the uk's departure from the eu on the union's revenue should be taken into account and the belts tightened accordingly. in order to cope with the decline in revenue without significantly undermining the achievement of the objectives of the mff, a focus should be placed on areas and projects with clear european added value, that is to say, those where action at european level can significantly improve results compared to action at national level. these include measures to reduce air pollution such as fine particulate matter, basic research to promote science or the promotion of robotization to reduce health and elderly care problems. moreover, controlling immigration is the best security policy in the member states, as well as the best social and cultural policy. the targeting of funding should be based on impact assessments independent of funding. advance evaluations should clearly list the assumptions on which the evaluations are based and impact assessments should be transparent and open to criticism.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on wednesday 14 march 2018. written declarations (rule 162)
in writing. mr president, the proposed eu financial framework for the period 2021-2027 is to increase gni from the current 1% to 1.3%. the pressure to increase the budget is heavy because of brexit and the increased responsibilities such as defence cooperation and migration management, but i still think the proposal is overstated. 70% of the eu budget is now spent on agriculture and cohesion support. the focus of funding should be shifted more strongly to projects that support future growth, such as innovation, research and security. the commission is also proposing to increase the funding of the research programme by 1.5 times and to triple the funding for youth programmes such as erasmus. it's a perfectly good direction. these are areas that are central and important for the future of europe. but at the same time, you don't want to cut anywhere else. this is not realistic. it is clear that we cannot simply increase the appropriations, but we must also be able to change the priorities. at the same time, the financing criteria must be revised. it is absolutely unacceptable that we should be supporting countries which flout the common values of the european union and violate the rule of law with huge sums of cohesion funds. respect for the fundamental values of the european union must be a condition for funding.
the next item is the report by mr daniele viotti, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the guidelines for the 2019 budget title iii (2017/2286(bud)) (a8-0062/2018).
on behalf of the s&d group mr president, there is too little good news in the world at the moment, and a small glimmer of hope is now included in this development in central asia. as high representative mogherini said, they want to work together and they want stability in the region. it's very important today. this central eu strategy is also important because it aims to involve the countries of the region more closely in this whole. i would ask the high representative whether it is possible to think that russia, with all the problems it is currently facing, could also be involved more in this process. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. this is a big deal, and there's a lot of new stuff.
in writing. if the eu is to compete with a competitive and efficient market economy like the us, it must first ensure the functioning of the european internal market. the eu's competitiveness problems are wide-ranging, complex and profound. the debate should focus on the main barriers to the internal market, which are manifested in the high level of price volatility within the eu. such barriers include market fragmentation due to linguistic and cultural differences, as well as indirect barriers to trade and entry, such as regulatory deviations or the preference for local producers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if aid is not optimally targeted at education, research and technological development, it will only increase costs and inefficiency. immigration policy also needs more attention. if it could be done, it would be the best social, educational and security policy in all eu countries.
mr president, mr prime minister, it was very pleasing to hear that you emphasised very strongly the common european values, the need to uphold the common principles of the rule of law, democratic values and equality. i am very concerned that many member states of the european union are moving alarmingly away from these common values. i would like to ask you how you intend to proceed at the summit to ensure that we can ensure that all member states are committed to these values. you also stressed the need to restore confidence in the european union. the most important thing here, in my view, is that the member states also stick to the rules they have agreed together and do the things they have agreed together. only then can we restore the mutual trust of citizens and member states in the european union. i agree that we must increase our joint efforts in areas such as common security. we must take a strong role in international trade policy and respond together to the challenges of migration. but it also requires that we can give up some of the previous objectives, because it is not realistic to be able to increase the budget to the extent that all the new challenges can be covered at the same time as we invest in these new areas.
mr president, commissioner, i would also like to use this opportunity, a little bit like ms jongerius, to raise the concern that the commission is not acting, even if the council and parliament have both called for such a comprehensive action plan on responsible business conduct. and i think most of us don’t understand why the commission is not going to do this, because now, in the absence of actions at eu level, the member states are acting. for instance, we see that france already has put in place a law on duty of vigilance; the netherlands is fighting against child labour; and others are following: the uk, switzerland and so on. we need a level playing field so that all companies would have to follow the same rules on corporate social responsibility. and by the way, i think this notion of corporate social responsibility is already a bit outdated. we should talk about corporate accountability, which is a broader subject, and we need european-level actions.
mr president, the conflict minerals regulation was adopted one year ago, but its requirements will start to apply only as of 2021. whilst we are eager to hear what steps and measures the commission has taken, there are already some very good initiatives coming from the member states, and i am happy to announce that finland and sweden just this week announced that together they would prepare a sustainability certificate that would cover the whole supply chain – mining, production, use and recycling of minerals. this is an excellent initiative because the supply and sustainability chain should not end with the consumer, but should also take into account the reuse and recycling of minerals. electric cars and other new consumer products are increasing the demand for rare minerals every year and not just in europe, but worldwide, so this is a golden opportunity for the eu to set standards for sustainable risk-free supply chains and due diligence requirements.
mr president, if we are to promote alternative fuels, it is of course very important that consumers have access to a comprehensive network of charging points throughout europe. this commission action plan is quite good and shows that the investment needs are really considerable. we are talking about five billion euros in just a few years, and another 20 billion should be invested by 2025, specifically in electric cars, hydrogen and gas. it is important that we create opportunities for people to charge electric cars, especially at home, because we know that charging is very slow. the energy efficiency of buildings directive now takes this into account, but it is also a good practice to try to bring the most comprehensive network possible to these core networks, urban areas and suburban areas. it should be borne in mind that the distribution of fuel is a market-driven activity. this must also be the case for these alternative fuels in the future, but in order to speed up infrastructure, it is justified that we should also aim to direct investment aid to this area now.
this conversation is over. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on seven motions for resolutions on the situation in the maldives (2018/2630 ((rsp)).
this conversation is over. the vote shall be taken at the end of the debate. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the six motions for resolutions on the detention of human rights defenders in sudan, and in particular the case of salih mahmoud osman, laureate of the sakharov prize (2018/2631 ((rsp)).
but, mr president, you must know that the president is ultimately responsible for assessing how much catch-the-eye time can be granted, and i do not think you can complain that you would normally suffer from this. i am not saying that we should be in favour of a european parliament, but that we should be in favour of a european parliament. you are quite right that the president must take great care to ensure that the speaking time is respected. it is true that in this debate i have had to interrupt three speakers 'by force', that is, by knocking down the hammer and closing the microphone, and that is not a good thing. this conversation is over. the vote shall be taken at the end of the debate. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the debate on the five motions for resolutions on the ugandan genocide (2018/2632 ((rsp)).
this conversation is over. the vote shall be taken at the end of the debate. written declarations (rule 162)
the committee on transport and tourism has adopted an opinion. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee on transport, i would like to thank the whole joint team for the good cooperation. transport emissions account for a staggering quarter of our greenhouse gas emissions, so we need really radical action in the transport sector in all member states. now, more than words and papers, we need daily action. the role of private cars in europe is still very high, so the overall decarbonisation of transport and the development of vehicle technology will play a major role. they also require bold, pioneering action, which i believe all actors can take, because without it we cannot achieve the final results in terms of emission reductions. the introduction of multimodal transport, increased sharing and different transport services is essential. we're about to go live. the speeches have been made.
the question of the blue card. as the previous speaker said, we need a broad, good forest policy. this is part of the reason we have rules so that climate responsibility is also taken into account in forestry. but as the previous speaker also said, this allows for the emissions from other sectors to be taken into account in the growth of the forest. i would therefore like to ask whether you also see a role in forest products actually being able to replace fossil products, plastics with bioplastics and many other products that cause emissions. for example, producing cement for building houses is much more climate-friendly than building wooden houses, and to get wooden houses, you need to manage forests, and the rest of the biomass from the economic forest can be found in many different uses, if we do the bioeconomy right in the future.
for the alde group mr president, i would also like to thank the commissioner for his presence and for following the proceedings closely. we were very close to reaching an agreement in this committee, but time ran out, perhaps mainly because the requirements for forests and for us are now very different. that's why we had a little bit of a breakdown in the last few metres. while our work has been somewhat disrupted, there have been tremendous changes. sixty years ago, forestry was the work of a lone man, a saw and a horse. at the moment, it's an extremely complex and technological job, more like a chemical industry than a traditional forestry industry. that is why we may need some 200 million cubic kilometres of new forest in europe today to meet the challenges posed by plastic. wood can also be made into plastics and solve the problems that we face.
i support this outcome of the negotiations and would like to thank all the negotiators and in particular mr norbert linz for the work he has done with the other negotiators on the lulucf regulation. we know that forests are of great importance in combating climate change. europe's forests capture up to 10% of all greenhouse gas emissions. it is important that the european union promotes sustainable forest management both in europe and in the rest of the world. we know that the commission's original proposal was unfair to countries that have managed their forests sustainably, because they would not have had the opportunity to increase their use of forests either. now we have reached a conclusion which offers the possibility of continuing the forestry business, provided it is done on a sustainable basis and provided that the forests are maintained as carbon sinks. this is a good place to start.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to start by thanking simona bonafè. the last part of her surname, fe, translates into swedish as fairy. she has been the good fairy of this process and i sincerely thank her for that. having said that, i think we are on a fairly complicated mission. today helsingin sanomat, the biggest newspaper in finland, has a headline saying that the waste basket of a normal finnish family contains up to 80% of recyclable materials which are not recycled. we usually think that we are very good at doing things. if we are that bad, then i think we are really going to need some fairies going forward. commissioner timmermans, i do not know how you can physically turn yourself into a fairy, but you had better try, because we are now going to need the commission to implement this in the future.
mr president, the current consumption patterns are totally unsustainable from an environmental point of view and the end of the road is in sight. i would like to stress the responsibility of producers in solving this problem. consumers buy products in the packaging they are offered in the store. what need is satisfied, for example, by the sale of individual fruits in single-use plastic packaging? producers must be obliged to pack their products in a way that causes the least possible impact on the environment. today, the same consumer product can be made from a mixture of different types of plastic, making it very difficult to recycle. greener design, production and use of packaging would significantly reduce the amount of waste generated, and we must therefore steer development in this direction. forests are renewable natural resources, and the products processed from them provide an environmentally sustainable alternative in many cases, and should therefore be promoted for product development in this area.
in writing. – the adoption of the waste package is an important and welcome step in the right direction. europe is dependent on the import of raw materials. we cannot afford to waste precious materials, as is now happening. we need a waste hierarchy that can act as a strong catalyst for the move towards a circular economy. recycling capacity in europe should be developed. we need separate waste collection, including optical sorting to make use of materials to their highest possible value and to feed them into new processes, closing the loops to ensure high quality resources maintain their value throughout the recycling process. the finnish bottle recycling system of pep bottles, based on a bottle deposit, is an efficiently functioning example to build on. ultimately, what we must aim for is to design out all waste, and have products that are upgradeable, reusable, repairable, and recyclable. the targets and measures now adopted are not enough to get us there. therefore, the review of the package and its measures and targets will be an important opportunity to raise the ambition level as we go forward.
in writing. the waste directives now adopted and more stringent recycling targets can significantly boost the circular economy. efficient recycling and reuse of materials reduces environmental impact and emissions, while ensuring better availability of raw materials. it's not just about the environment and health, it's about the economy. the circular economy enhances competitiveness, innovation and growth and creates jobs in europe. however, it can only work if it is market-driven and incentivising for both producers and consumers. the growing environmental awareness of consumers is also driving companies to look for solutions that are both cost-effective and environmentally friendly. each year, the european union generates some 2.5 billion tonnes of waste. although less than one tenth of this is municipal waste, it is a challenging part of waste generation and treatment. for example, at present, 95 percent of all plastic is used only once. only five percent of plastic waste ends up properly recycled and 40 percent ends up in landfills as mixed waste. plastic production is estimated to triple globally by 2050. the new targets now adopted require member states to recycle at least 55% of municipal waste by 2025. in addition to metals, glass, paper and bio-waste, separate collection will be introduced for plastics and, from 2025, for textiles. as we know, there are already major differences between member states in the recycling and recovery of waste. many are not even up to current recycling targets, so new, tougher targets will require significant changes in practices and processes.
the first item on the agenda is the commission statement on the european values instrument to support civil society organisations promoting democracy, the rule of law and fundamental values in the european union (2018/2619 ((rsp)).
now that we have two blue cards, mr zimmer and mr veld, i am afraid we must save some time for the 'catch the eye' part. i'm sorry, but you know what's gonna happen here at 10:00 when president macron arrives. the last requested word is now for mr carlos coelho, one minute, please.
i have received the motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. 1 and this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 18 april 2018. 1 and see minutes of the sitting. written declarations (rule 162)
mr president, mr president macron, i thank you for your speech and also for the activity, passion and energy you have brought to the european debate. it is also appreciated in my home country, finland. you spoke very much about european sovereignty. it is of course important, but only to the extent that it cannot be seen as protectionist or inward-looking. on the contrary, in these difficult international times, it is important that europe takes a stronger role as a global leader, promotes peace and stability, is active in trade agreements and promotes cooperation based on international commitments and agreements, including in the fight against climate change. i particularly liked the fact that you stressed the importance of european democratic values and the need for all member states to commit themselves to these values. i ask you, how do you intend to work in the european council to ensure that all the member states of the european union respect and commit themselves to european values, now and in the future?
mr president, the report raises important questions about the position of women in the media. it also recognises the role of the media in shaping public opinion. the media not only portrays the world, they shape it. children are exposed to gender inequality at a very early age, for example through the images they adopt from television, games and advertising. the media should give voice to a wide range of women and produce diverse role models in order to break with age-old gender stereotypes. there were also a few problematic points in the report, such as the proposal to introduce gender quotas, which i do not support. despite some weaknesses in the text, i voted in favour of the report.
mr president, the global compact unfortunately keeps repeating old mistakes. it stresses the management of immigration, for example by distributing migrants more evenly or by creating new legal avenues for migrants in the hope that this would discourage illegal entry. the real problem however, is the sheer number of people who are coming, or who want to come, from the third world. europe cannot integrate them, regardless of whether they are legal or illegal. therefore, the numbers should be brought down with a stricter asylum legislation and a more efficient return policy. it is true that europe is ageing and that the funding of welfare states presents a challenge. it should be understood, however, that immigration of this kind does not alleviate the problem, but makes it worse. in addition, it creates new problems.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, firstly i want to thank commissioner oettinger for his total commitment, and equally i want to thank dean lazarou and the eca for their invaluable input into this procedure. the discharge procedure is a powerful tool, but only when used properly and timely. controls and checks can guide eu policies towards a more effective, efficient and economic direction, but we need decent tools and appropriate timelines to achieve this. too often, the remarks we receive from the auditors are already old news by the time we get our hands on them, and too often we are discussing matters that are already gone, and taking positions on issues that are no more. there is a definite need for an accelerated procedure. the discharge has to be streamlined towards n+1, and we need all stakeholders involved in this. i think that the good example of the private sector should be followed, and earlier deadlines set for the publication of the relevant documents. we will need interinstitutional cooperation to make this happen. we need to get the council, the commission, the court of auditors, eu agencies and other stakeholders, including this house, together to discuss appropriate solutions and make a change that counts. i am very, very glad that president lehne, in his remarks, underlined this point as well.
mr president, since you were kind enough to mention the committee on budgetary control, i want to return the favour and say that we are dealing with these 53 separate reports faster than we would be dealing with five reports under the chairmanship of a slower vice-president.
the question of the blue card. it is a great thing that there is such a broad consensus in the european parliament to tackle this issue, and i am very pleased with commissioner jourová, who for example mentioned algorithms as one of the factors in the spread of fake news. i would ask you if you are prepared to increase the transparency of algorithms, because they are trade secrets. they are bound to run into the very interests that exist between the hard business and the citizen.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr dalton for his excellent work as a driver on an important matter. european consumers need reliable, independent and high-quality type-approval and market surveillance. of course, this will cost money, and it would be good if the member states also allocated the necessary resources to this activity. the diesel emissions scandal has made the problems of vehicle type approval and market surveillance known. some of the loopholes that the greedy auto industry so eagerly and effectively exploits are now being successfully plugged. type-approval and market surveillance must be independent and impartial. the automotive industry should not have any role in delivering cars to type approval authorities and paying for the services received. we can't have santa claus as a guard. no more mistakes like that, please. i would have liked to see the testing facilities belong to the type approval authorities and not to the automobile industry. we would now have had the opportunity to correct all the problems of type-approval and market surveillance that were brought to light by the emissions scandal and that were identified in the emis committee of inquiry. unfortunately, it is not quite the end result, but i am grateful that these bold steps were at least taken.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. mr president, organic production is a key environmental issue in addition to agriculture, and so i would like to stress, with a view to the future, that the competence of the committee on the environment should be equal to that of the committee on agriculture in preparing and deciding on these matters. a politically difficult process with a reasonable, partly excellent result, as for example in the case of the seed bank. but there are still some major shortcomings: the level of animal welfare is not higher, the pesticide levels are not at the normal level of organic production. i really should fix this. and the third is, of course, the greenhouse/land question for the nordic countries, which can be quite an unreasonable outcome for tomatoes and cucumbers. we are not talking about general aquatic or aerial cultivation, but about the fact that the weather is bad, with a frost of 30 degrees, the tomato or the cucumber takes root in normal soil. i hope that in the future this can be solved permanently by giving producers the investment security they so desperately need. the issue of foreign surveillance, which we discussed, but didn't get off the tree for long. we know that normal border controls don't help organic production because organic doesn't smell, taste or look different. the question then is whether third country manufacturers can be obliged to use audited third party controls on the production process.
madam president, good competition policy can work only under the rules of fairness, transparency and level playing field. that’s why i would like to concentrate my comments only on market surveillance. during the last electoral period, the commission proposed a new market surveillance regulation, and parliament improved it significantly when it comes to pan-european surveillance and effectiveness. unfortunately, these proposals were stuck in the council and debates inside there. frankly, we need to confess to ourselves that the existing market surveillance is not effective: it is almost like a negative lottery to be caught importing forged lighters or designer goods, or indeed a lot of products that can be dangerous for consumers, and all in all are not applying the eu regulation in general. so i do duly hope that now, when the commission is looking at this competition policy, it would very speedily come back to the market surveillance regulation that was not in the goods package and try to revoke this process for the negotiations.
madam president, the vast majority of legal interpretation says clearly that this is in the common competence and normal law procedure relating to auditing and accounting directives and procedures, so claiming that there would be a risk of having the wrong legal basis is a total fraud. it is a total fig leaf that is being intentionally used to block this very clear and long overdue country-by-country reporting. it is against all fairness and european citizens’ sense of what is right. i duly hope that the bulgarian presidency will convene a meeting and ask for a legal opinion from several different sources, and clarify the point within the council, because only sitting on the issue will not solve it.
in writing. promoting public country-by-country reporting by companies is an important tool in the fight against aggressive tax planning and tax evasion. the commission estimates that tax avoidance by companies costs member states up to eur 50 to 70 billion a year. the reform will make the tax information of large multinational companies publicly available for citizens and national authorities to consult. the data will be used to monitor the tax liability of companies in the member states where they have made profits. the main purpose of country-by-country reporting is to bring transparency to corporate taxation. the parliament decided on this at its july 2017 plenary session. the final text decided to impose the reporting obligation on companies with a turnover exceeding eur 750 million. i myself was in favour of setting the turnover threshold considerably lower, at eur 40 million, but the majority vote on the higher turnover threshold won the plenary vote. although the text adopted was not as ambitious as i had hoped, it is an important step towards transparency in corporate taxation and a significant means of tackling the erosion of the tax base due to tax evasion. the public country-by-country reporting of companies is a legislative project that should not be buried in the council. i hope that the bulgarian presidency will do everything possible to ensure that the matter progresses in the council.
madam president, vaccine hesitancy is not the problem, as long as the majority of us are getting our vaccinations and we are providing the herd protection for all the rest of the people. but if the hesitancy is increasing, there is the risk that we could cause serious pandemic infections, very vulgar infections, in europe. this is a serious issue that i think gives the commission the competency, even though i know it is a very delicate situation, to create a european vaccination plan and even to consider having a european, pan-european, not just the suggested list, but a register of vaccinated people or vaccinations. that would be information to be shared. because it is not only an issue of pandemics; think of people working in hospitals and with fragile people in elderly care centres and not having vaccinations. i know a lot of these cases. they are posing a real threat to someone else that we should be protecting.
the next item is the vote. (for the results and other details of the vote: see minutes)
we now move to the next item, the report by mr buzek. this is a decision by the committee on industry, research and energy to enter into negotiations on the basis of the report by mr buzek concerning common rules for the internal market in natural gas. a plenary vote on the committee’s decision was originally requested by the gue/ngl and enf groups. together, they constitute the so-called medium threshold, but the gue/ngl group has now withdrawn its request, and if there are no other requests for this vote to take place, the vote will be withdrawn from the agenda and the committee may enter into negotiations with immediate effect. are there any other requests? no. so this means that i don’t need to put this to a vote and it will be withdrawn from the agenda.
that concludes the vote.
the voting is over.
mr president, first: the good news. in the commission proposal there are a lot of things where this parliament has already been clearly heard. to me the message is obvious: after brexit we need more europe, not less europe. we need strong commitment in the areas where we can be stronger together. that’s why the commission proposal on the next mff is a good starting point for real and, i hope, lively discussions also in the member states, because now it’s up to the member states to come up with answers to some of their own causes. with growing challenges in defence, security and migration and with ample evidence that investing in european infrastructure and digital economy pays off handsomely, how on earth would you be able to finance the union with anything less than what the commission is today proposing? when it comes to money, this is the minimum. now we have to deliver by next spring.
this conversation is over. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the council and commission statements on the application of international standards on the definition of sexual violence in spain following the recent so-called 'wolf's lawn' incident (2018/2696 ((rsp))
the author. mr president, the european union was the first region in the world to ban animal testing in the cosmetics sector, both for ingredients and for future products. as a result, the european cosmetics industry has prospered. it has been involved in several research projects and has developed excellent alternative methods that are more reliable for consumers. consumers have thus been able to obtain better cosmetics for themselves. we have avoided a very large number of unnecessary and cruel animal experiments. the development of alternative methods the eu is currently involved in 33 different research projects has revealed that animal testing is also highly unreliable. only about 60% of human reproductive health risks, about 40% of skin irritations and about 42% of carcinogenic effects are noted. alternative methods, based on, inter alia, stem cell platforms, are faster, provide significantly more reliable and in many cases more cost-effective results for both cosmetics and other products. so we can say that animal testing is outdated, ineffective and very cruel. the eu has indeed been a success story, one that has already been followed up by many countries. however, some 80% of products still contain or are tested on animal ingredients. although it also applies to products marketed within the eu, the origin of products is very difficult to obtain and has proved to be very difficult to control. what we need now, and what parliament is asking both the commission and the council at this moment, is active action to bring about a global ban on animal testing in cosmetics. we need an international agreement, a un code of conduct, standards and a global campaign to get us to ban animal testing of cosmetics by 2023. we call on both the council and the commission, following this debate and resolution, to use their resources, both directly to the un, to its secretary-general, and also to all the like-minded and currently still divided un member states, to bring about this ban. it is also important that both existing and future trade agreements include a ban on animal testing in cosmetics. once these tests have shown that alternative tests provide more reliable results for both the consumer, i.e. humans, and avoid unnecessary animal suffering and in many cases also save costs, it is very important that we invest together, also with the resources of the commission and the eu budget, in the validation, development and rapid deployment of alternative tests, also in non-cosmetic areas, which have produced results that are fully aligned with those of cosmetic tests in terms of both reliability and evolution. we need international cooperation, we need resources, but above all we need a little humanity. it's worth remembering that what we often call the deepest human parts of us, like emotions, caring, the ability to suffer, are actually the deepest animal parts of all of us. what we do to animals says a lot about us, about our culture, our ethics, and the kind of people we are and want to be.
in writing. the problem of fake news, i.e. deliberately disseminated misleading or false news, has become more acute in the digital age. although the new digital environment has made the situation worse, this is not a phenomenon created by social media. for decades, traditional media outlets have also been guilty of biased and colorful reporting. a surprising novelty in a world of many kinds of fake news and propaganda is the fake newsletter. it is surprising that such a report has already been published by the well-known finnish company kustannusosakeyhtiö tammi in spring 2018. the deliberate and false dissemination of information as truth destroys the credibility of the media that disseminates false information, whether it is an online newspaper, a traditional newspaper or a cost-sharing company. organisations that share information, whether online or in traditional ways, should commit to publishing information that is evidence-based. the ethical code for suppliers and cost reporting agents should include the obligation to verify data and sources of information. the presentation of false allegations or misleading information can have far-reaching consequences and the corrections made to them rarely achieve much visibility. access to high-quality, free and independent information is a fundamental right. citizens must have access to reliable information through the media. citizens' media literacy should also be promoted, and i support measures to this end.
in writing. today is international press freedom day. freedom of the media is a key element of democracy and eu values. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's new rules on the protection of personal data, in particular the rules on the protection of personal data and the rules on the protection of personal data. respect for freedom of expression is embedded in all eu policies and development programmes. yet, according to reporters without borders' latest press freedom index, press freedom in europe has declined significantly in recent times. it is a shame that several eu member states are ranked very poorly (above 70) in the index, when all eu countries should be in the top ten. the eu has recently been under attack by journalists and independent media. this is unacceptable. in accordance with the charter of fundamental rights of the eu, the european union is founded on the values of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and on a free and pluralistic media. freedom of the press has a crucial role to play in promoting good governance, transparency and accountability. independent journalism is needed to monitor democratic processes. the media must be free to operate without pressure and the threat of prior censorship. it is our duty as politicians to defend media freedom even when the content of journalism is not liked. all violence against journalists and all legislation, regulation and political pressure that restrict freedom of opinion and expression must come to an end. concrete action must be taken to prevent the pressure and intimidation of journalists, bloggers and human rights defenders.
mr president, mr prime minister, it is very valuable that you are here, reflecting together with the european parliament on the future of europe. i agree that when we consider the future of europe, it must be based on european values. it is important that we defend democracy, freedom, democracy, the rule of law. it is particularly important today, as we celebrate international press freedom day. we know that a free, independent and pluralistic press and media are an important cornerstone of democracy which we must defend throughout europe. the commission yesterday presented its own proposal for a future european financial framework. i hope that we will also have strong support from belgium in continuing to invest in young people and in their future. it is the foundation on which europe will prosper in the future. it is great that the commission has proposed that the erasmus exchange programme be doubled. we know how important it is for young europeans to have the opportunity to get to know other countries. similarly, investment in research, training and innovation must continue.
it is very good, mr president, that the commission is now finally taking up this matter of reducing transport emissions, because we know that transport is the only sector where emissions have only increased, and as transport volumes continue to increase, that means that now we need really big reforms for the whole transport sector. this proposal, which also proposes emission standards for tracks, is welcome and complements previous ones and will certainly help to accelerate innovation in the sector. we know that the automobile industry is the most important industrial sector in europe and the largest research and development and investment sector in europe. it is very important that it stays in the global competition, because europe can still be a pioneer in clean transport in the world. while we are developing vehicle technology, it is important to continue to promote renewable, alternative fuels. they play a very important role, as does the whole logistical chain. in this context, both member states and regions need support for their own innovation, as these logistical challenges are to a large extent solved at local level.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to start with a thank you to ulrike rodust. once again with her good cooperation we have been able to achieve something which is acceptable, if not perfect. the cfp clearly sets out that all fish stocks shall be fished at sustainable levels before 2020. the north sea map, just like the previous one for the baltic sea, unfortunately includes provisions allowing for fishing efforts up to f upper, under certain conditions. so, even if we are not very satisfied with this, we will vote for this agreement. special thanks goes to my colleagues from the greens and the gue: they have had the good taste to reintroduce one of my amendments. i’m sorry to say i won’t vote for it because that would lead to the agreement falling, but big thanks to you ulrike, and we’ll try to go further in this direction.
mr president, one thing that i would like to highlight, to continue what mr corbett has already said, is that the impact assessment needs to be developed further. this is not a question of deregulation, but of a better and adaptive regulation. issues that are still lacking with regard to the impact assessment include a better understanding of the impact on citizens, especially on gender, which was agreed in the beijing declaration but is still not in the majority of the legislative action budgets. as we are discussing sustainable finance next, what would be crucial is to add the cost of not acting and not regulating. quite often in environmental and climate cases, people do see the cost if you have to invest or regulate or de-invest, let us say, away from diesel cars. but, then again, there is no comparison with what the huge cost of climate change will be if we do not act, and i hope this can be added in the future.
mr president, this february the general court of the european union in its decision de capitani v european parliament ruled that for democratic legitimacy, co-legislators – that is parliament and the council – must be held accountable for their actions to the public. citizens cannot, according to the general court, exercise their democratic rights if they are not in a position to even follow the legislative procedures and have access to relevant information, and the court ruled that this also goes for the trilogue documents, including the four column documents on request. the treaty on the functioning of the european union obliges us to work as openly as possible. if we fail to agree to fulfil our transparency obligations to the citizens, we run the risk that the european court of justice will once again condemn us. let’s not make it happen. and on wednesday we should all support the report by mr svoboda and mr corbett, and hopefully we can include an oral amendment about the importance of the implementation of the de capitani v european parliament judgment.
mr president, the question of sustainable finance is not the cherries on top of the cake. it is not primarily having 8% or 10% of the financial resources geared to green bonds and green investment. i dare say that this is the biggest change in financial markets since the application of general accounting and auditing principles, and indeed the auditing should take place in integrated reporting based on those indicators that go in parallel with financial reporting, having all the major environmental impacts taken into account. as our rapporteur has already mentioned, those kinds of indicators do exist, and it is only a question of putting them in place. it is a question of having a review of financial regulation and the pervasive incentives sometimes, be it in fiduciary duty of investors, be it mifids, be it the duty for credit raters to grade the environmental risks and in basel for the banks to reserve higher capital buffers for environmentally-risky investments. to conclude, i would just like to thank my colleagues for their excellent work. i think that this is the first step, and i hope the commission will have the courage to follow these guidelines.
mr president, there can be no sustainable finance unless there is transparency of the supply chains of the companies and here, one of the very interesting actions in the action plan on sustainable finance was to assess the need for due diligence reporting. this report of molly scott cato shows that we are getting closer to a tipping point and the time has indeed come for a mandatory due diligence legislation at the european level. that legislation would finally give all companies a level playing field. it would make sure that good companies are rewarded for their actions, and that the unsustainable ones cannot just escape their responsibilities as they do now. indeed, sustainable finance and responsible business conduct are possible, but if we want it, we just need to make decisions that are ambitious enough and we have no time to waste.
mr president, i want to thank our rapporteur, ms guteland, for her report and for the excellent cooperation through which this report was produced. this report asks the commission to add collective redress procedures to next year’s comparative exercise because it is a major legal tool in strengthening consumer, environmental and health protection in the european union. i am very happy to see that the commission shares this view as it published a legislative proposal on this matter while we were working on this report. the legislative proposal by the commission on collective redress does not, however, make the call in this report redundant. on the contrary: collective redress could provide efficient dispute resolution and the means to eliminate unreasonable barriers to access to justice in cross—border cases. the commission should also examine how the collective redress could be used in cases where companies or other organisations have committed or contributed to human rights violations in third countries outside european borders. often, due to legal technicalities or underdeveloped legislation, there may be no effective ways for access to justice and remedy at all.
the question of the blue card. you had a bit of a cynical attitude about this emf. but there was a glimmer of light when you said that new priorities must be able to be financed. i would ask you what you think are the areas where more resources should be devoted.
mr president, the commission is proposing a more sustainable budget and a higher level of climate finance. parliament would be even more ambitious in this respect. the next budgetary period must be in line with the paris agreement and the un sustainable development goals. not just on paper, but in practice. farmers are important implementers of eu climate and environment policy. this is why cutting agricultural funding is very problematic. as demands and pressures increase, there is no way to cut agricultural funding and this also leads to the failure of the eu climate agreement. there is no support for a large increase in the eu budget. i think that the 1.3% financing proposed by parliament is totally unrealistic. it is not in line with the aspirations of the citizens.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on posted workers is necessary and valuable in its efforts to promote equal treatment between posted workers and workers in the country of destination and to protect posted workers more effectively against fraud and exploitation. strengthening the rights of posted workers is important: the number of posted workers in the eu has increased significantly in recent years. better regulation is not only in the interests of workers but also of companies. regulation ensures a more level playing field between firms. the establishment of the principle of equal pay is an important step forward. the participating workforce must be properly compensated and workers' rights must not be undermined by competition.
mr president, the conflict between israel and the palestinians continues in part because the peace process is based on unrealistic goals. israel will not evacuate half a million jews from the so-called occupied territory, and it will not give up east jerusalem. there are historical and psychological reasons for this, but there are also legitimate, security-related reasons. the two-state model is utopian. as long as the international community clings to these unrealistic demands, the peace process will remain in the stalemate it has been in for over twenty years. the decision to move the us embassy to jerusalem is partly trump's domestic policy, but it is also an acknowledgement of facts. so it's kind of a step forward.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on wednesday 30 may 2018. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the report of mr carlos coelho, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the annual report on the functioning of the schengen area (2017/2256 (ini)) (a80160/2018).
mr president, many people are concerned about the collapse of the schengen system. the real problem, however, is not that some member states have reintroduced internal border controls. the real problem is that the lack of border controls has allowed illegal immigration and the asylum trade. if this problem is not solved, we will lose freedom of movement. a strict external border and asylum policy is the best and only way to defend the schengen system. member states should be able to reinstate internal border controls flexibly and for as long as the situation requires. this possibility will encourage the external border states and the european union to take care of the external border. we can choose leaky external borders or free movement within the schengen area, but we cannot choose both.
mr president, i would like to thank prime minister bettel for his very constructive speech. prime minister, i would like to ask you very directly: are you are willing, and what are you going to do inside the council? because the member states are quite often the most difficult part of the integration process to work towards a better and faster integration of the emu area, including monetary union, banking union and economic governance. are you willing to act in favour of the social dimension to be included in the eu competencies, as proposed? and are you willing to work to include better taxation governance, including the common corporate tax base and also the proposals of unfair tax competition between the countries? last but not least, is of course the refugee politics.
mr president, mr prime minister, it is easy to agree with you that we must strengthen europe's competitiveness, economic growth and the internal market, because only a strong economy can ensure the well-being of people and the future of europe. it is certainly one of the greatest achievements in europe, if not the greatest, that we have a common internal market area of 500 million people based on common democratic values. i am very pleased that you are defending these democratic values, but the fact is that unfortunately some eu member states have in recent years started to move away from our commonly agreed values of human rights, freedom, democracy, equality and the rule of law to which all eu member states are committed. we have not had the means to intervene in this development. the commission is now rightly proposing, as part of the forthcoming budget, that in future eu funding should be linked to respect for the rule of law. you were a little hesitant about this. it would be good to have a clear statement now on whether luxembourg supports the line that eu funding should be conditional on respect for the common values of the eu. is it not the case that the minimum requirement for financing these countries is that they respect the law, the common principles and values?
mr president, first let me congratulate you on your birthday. (applause)i would like to propose an oral amendment, paragraph 86(a) (new). i will read it and i hope it’s self—explanatory: ‘takes due note of the judgment t—540/15, de capitani v european parliament, which reaffirms that the principles of publicity and transparency are inherent to the eu legislative process and that no general presumption of non—disclosure can be upheld as regards legislative documents, including trilogue documents’.
mr president, golden visas, that is, passports and residence permits issued in exchange for money and investment, have become a multi-billion dollar business for many eu countries. however, they also involve a high risk of corruption and money laundering. in addition, the lack of background checks on applicants may lead to safety concerns. it is morally problematic to place people in unequal positions on the basis of wealth. the golden visa makes it much easier for wealthy investors to obtain a residence permit than for ordinary work visa applicants. it should always be possible to establish with great precision the background of the applicants and the origin of the funds to be invested, in order to ensure that the scheme is not used to facilitate criminal activities such as money laundering, tax evasion or terrorist financing. arrangements such as the golden visas affect the whole of the schengen area as a result of free movement. i therefore hope that the commission will take a firm stance in tackling the problems of the system.
for the alde group mr president, i am pleased that this report states that national rescue resources must be fully used before this resceu mechanism is launched. this new european emergency service could save member states money by making it possible to buy together expensive emergency equipment, for example to combat chemical or radiological accidents, rather than having to buy everything separately. but the creation of a new mechanism must not mean that citizens and national emergency services are being undermined. this obligation on the part of the member states is particularly acute in the case of foreseeable crises, such as forest fires, which are known to occur at a certain time, or floods. they don't come as a complete surprise. however, mr president, i am disappointed that the commission's proposal to create and reform the eu emergency services mechanism is not based on a proper impact assessment. there is no good preparation of the legislation, no impact assessment has been carried out in advance, and the aim is to make quick profits. i therefore want to remove the detailed list of resceu mechanisms or resources to be provided to the mechanism. the decision to purchase the equipment included in the mechanism shall be left to experts on the basis of a thorough risk and impact assessment. i would not be prepared to sit here in the chamber and decide what equipment to buy. i do not think i have the competence to do that, especially since this impact assessment and the detailed presentation have not been done.
mr president, it may seem a little strange that the subject of the manipulation of car odometers is being discussed here in the house. but as we can see from this information, this is a very wide problem: the sale of used cars is up to two or three times as large as the sale of new cars, and as we know, especially in cross-border trade, it is very common that odometers have been manipulated in up to one in three or two cars. for consumers, this is clearly a major economic problem and also a safety problem, because for the average consumer, it is usually the number of kilometres driven that is the main criterion for assessing the condition of the car. this has obviously a major impact on the way consumers make purchasing decisions, and we know that it also has a negative impact on safety. the price of a car is naturally tied to how much it has been driven. of course, we must remember that the measures proposed in this report do not create any additional bureaucracy, but we have good examples of attempts to organize registers at national level, either voluntarily or by the authorities, from which the history of the car can be reliably checked. i think it is important now to consider how we can create such a register system throughout europe. the possibilities of block chain technology are mentioned here, but this will naturally take time. but this is a very important issue for the functioning of our internal market and for consumer confidence.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to add my voice to the point made by my colleague mr viotti that now is the right time: we have to practice what we preach. we are so concerned about the rule of law and the rights of citizens: we cannot waste time. and i would say that the commission has artificially bound parliament’s hands by using the so-called recast technique. this absolutely forbids us to solve this problem, and i think that is not fair. the brussels iia regulation is outdated. it is supposed to help the free movement of judgments in matrimonial law, but it’s 15 years old. is it not time to modernise it, in accordance with the changes that we have seen in our societies? registered partnerships may not have been a big deal in 2003, but now they are an established part of matrimonial law. so let’s act. the eu must protect the rights of registered partners too.
this conversation is over. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item on the agenda is the statement by the commission on the use of ipa funds in turkey (2018/2716 ((rsp)).
madam president, indeed, all gender rights start with girls’ and women’s physical and psychological integrity: the right to determine what to do with their bodies, the right to be educated, the right to have sexual and reproductive counselling, and the right to economic and social rights as part of their human rights, and this is highlighted in this report. yes, it means that gay girls and women’s voices and their participation have to be strengthened, not for them, but by them. we have to listen. there has been a lot of discussion about lgbti rights. yes indeed, girls and women can be lgbt and i, and they do have rights as well, and we should respect them. last but not least, i am very happy to hear that eeas has the principal adviser on gender in the field.
in writing. mr president, the gap ii action plan for gender equality covers three important pillars the promotion of physical and psychological integrity of girls and women, the promotion of economic and social rights, the promotion of empowerment and, in addition, a horizontal pillar for changing the institutional culture of the commission services and the eeas in order to take better and more comprehensive account of the improvement of the status of women in their work. it is essential that the eeas consistently seeks to promote these aspects in its day-to-day activities. improving the consumption and labour market participation of women and girls is key to improving their health and economic status. women's participation in economic activities is important for sustainable economic growth. the eu should actively seek to develop instruments to improve the status of women in third countries. trade negotiations are one such important instrument. the issue needs to be raised in political dialogue to find country-specific ways of increasing the participation of women and girls in education, employment, business and other economic activities. smes and women entrepreneurs should be given more support, including through micro-credit. the eu's external relations agency is a key player in this and a unified approach is needed.
i am very pleased, mr president, that the commission has invested above all in consulting young people and in the study and training opportunities that are now also being added to erasmus, and in the opportunity for young people to get to know each other across europe. the important thing is that young people feel that europe is their home, that european politics is their politics and that this is a place where they can influence their own future and that of the world. we are definitely on the right track, but we need to take further action.
madam president, 80% of the environmental impact of products is decided by design. so already, when the first ecodesign directive was launched, there was a great debate that it should not be only energy but it should cover all product classes and all impacts on the environment. this need is even highlighted now that we have the programme on the circular economy and the need to make products more upgradable, reparable, reusable, disassemblable, modular and recyclable as a material at the highest level. this is important because through the ecodesign directive, we can have an impact also on all goods that are imported into the eu. think, for example, of plastics. you cannot ban single-use plastics in packaging, for example, if you don’t put that in the ecodesign directive so that it is compliant with wto rules and it has an impact on all the goods that are imported as well. this is a crucial change and i am very happy to see that the commission is ready to consider changing the scope so that it would cover all products and it would be horizontal, having these demands in different classes. next comes surveillance: that the goods and products are really compatible with the regulation also on the markets.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr chairman, dear colleagues, my greatest thanks to my dear colleague, marian-jean marinescu. it was tough, but there was very good cooperation with all of us shadow rapporteurs. i like that we find stricter social, physical and psychological health standards for the personnel and that we have also included environmental and climate protection in the annexes to this regulation, as are social standards. ground handling could be stricter, but it’s a compromise. regarding higher civil risk with drone operations, it is very important that we use this time for this area. i’m totally happy to support this work which we are doing together.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. a big thank you to the rapporteur, mr zoffoli, for a good job on this issue. there have been many oddities in european car policy. you don't measure the actual emissions or allow a little tinkering with the equipment. the question we are now discussing is one of the strangest: for lorries, heavy goods vehicles, there have been no regulations at all. when this debate began, it was assumed that parliament's demand for a more environmentally friendly policy was really just a way of preventing the progress of the automobile industry. the automotive industry has gradually learned - albeit with a great deal of unnecessary delay - that by opposing regulation of the various automotive sectors it was putting itself in a very difficult situation, that is, it was lagging behind technologically and handing over a large part of the initiative to competitors. we're at the very best in the final phase of our work to create the practical rules for what this will look like for passenger cars. the next step along this road, on the basis of the proposals we have received from the commission, will be to deal also with heavy transport. it will be particularly interesting for the reason that we know that the way in which we are going to divide the burden between, for example, agriculture and heavy transport can pose serious challenges to agriculture. agricultural productivity is of course much lower if we do not ensure that heavy transport takes its share of the paris requirements, through cop21. if we do, we will at the same time be putting agriculture in a worse position. so we have made a big step forward. we can take even greater steps in the future and they will also be necessary.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank mr zoffoil and the whole negotiating team, and of course the commission and council team, for reaching a common outcome. the commission has already proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the information provided by the member states. now we have the opportunity to get information on both fuel consumption and co2 emissions. when this is combined with municipal type approval and real emissions at the time of driving, we can say that we have the tools to combat climate change. i believe that funding is the key to the best way to achieve our climate goals. i would hope that the criteria for eu transport funding could be an assessment of how projects contribute to the achievement of emission reduction targets and that funding would be allocated primarily to such projects with sufficiently high emission reductions.
mr president, if we want to strengthen the well-being of people in europe, build a stable society in the different member states and guarantee an economically successful europe, we must strengthen the commission's powers and competence and joint coordination in the field of education policy, because we need significantly more resources and more quality in education. this means that we must start with teacher training. the level of basic education must be raised in all member states, as well as the level of vocational and university education, and resources must be increased. this is a constant race internationally, and we must keep up the pace to stay ahead. to achieve this, and also to achieve the common labour market, we need a better lifelong learning model, better harmonisation of education and training, and also the european semester metrics on how well the different member states have managed their education policies and how resources have been allocated to them.
madam president, the dublin reform should be forgotten. distributing asylum seekers hasn’t worked and will not work. it only encourages more migration from sub-saharan africa and elsewhere. recently, italy refused entry to an ngo boat full of migrants. that was the right thing to do. in the mediterranean, we are seeing a repetition of what happened at land borders in 2015. first, one member state finds the courage to do the right thing and close the border, next that member state is heavily criticised by everyone else. finally, other member states do exactly the same thing. systematic pushbacks at external borders, better returns policy and strict adherence to the first safe country principle are the only realistic way forward. our obsession with relocation only postpones decisions that are both necessary and inevitable.
mr president, the meeting we are about to have is very important. it is important that we can make progress on all the issues that we have discussed in recent years and which are essential for the future of europe, one year before the european elections. we have made good progress in some sectors, such as the eu's defence and security sector. the financial framework has also now provided more resources for this and we know that many of the measures in this area have made very positive progress. it is necessary for europe to take more responsibility for its own defence, and security is one of the main areas where we need to make progress. i hope, however, that the next summit will also speak very seriously about the european foundation of values, that is, that by joining the union we are all committed to europe and to defending the common democratic values. now some member states are worryingly slipping away from these. this issue must now be seriously raised at the summit of heads of state. it is very good that in future the member states' finances will also be subject to the rule of law. it is very important for the future of europe.
mr president, once again the commission has produced long texts on balancing the balance without offering a politically realistic and economically viable model for european economic and monetary union. the transfer of debts and liabilities to those countries that are better off with the euro will not solve the fundamental problems of the euro area, such as the growing disparities in competitiveness. professor hans-werner sinn believes that leaving the euro is the only way to prevent them from breaking up. it is also the only way to prevent the uncontrolled breakdown of the euro. the european central bank cannot hold more than one third of the bonds of any single country, which is already almost full for germany. in the next recession, the european central bank will be powerless. as columnist wolfgang münchau has pointed out, every country should prepare for the break-up of the euro.
mr president, i would like to thank you. every time we discuss european economic and monetary union, we seem to fall into a serious lapse of memory. no one wants to remember the quagmire we found ourselves in after the bretton woods system had collapsed. each currency has its underlying value in productivity. we are not coming from the demand for an increasing and growing productivity. every post in this house that denies this is a denial of reality, but that in itself is nothing new. we have therefore created a system. perhaps the commission was a little too optimistic when it read robert mandel's article in 1961 and thought that this was the solution. when the commission comes out today with new proposals on how we can improve this system, we should be grateful and critical. but we have to remember that productivity, the underlying productivity, in any case, is the starting point.
the evolution of emu is not a buffet table in a restaurant where everyone goes to pick out the items that they feel most appetizing at the moment, but a whole which, like a carriage or a wheel, requires different parts in order to function. the commission has done a good job. the proposal for a directive contains the development of a european treasury and a stability mechanism to form a european monetary fund and, in future, a common investment mechanism to support states in the event of asymmetric shocks, and this is what constitutes the whole. it is very important that this should also include the continuation of the banking union, stricter rules for compliance with the stability and growth pact and, outside the package itself, the strengthening of the social dimension and the rules of the game in the labour market, as well as the principles and means for avoiding tax evasion, unfair competition and social security and tax competition in the future. only then can europe be strong.
madam president, argument number one seems to be that we, as the european union, must cherish stability in the gulf region by sticking unconditionally to the jcpoa. however, you only need to look into the present situation to understand that, with the mullah regime, we are far from stability. the reaction from ayatollah khamenei to the withdrawal of the united states from the agreement speaks volumes. the tehran dictatorship is actually using the opportunity to milk the union and keep oppressing its own people. the main issues for the iranian people are freedom, human rights, women’s rights, poverty – and not the nuclear deal. but the main thing for the union seems to be the deal and all the other deals that come with it.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, certainly when we look back to 08.08.08 we can see that it was a turning point in the international order and it was a day when we should have realised that russia was going to continue even more to violate countries which used to belong to the soviet union. we could see that in 2014 when the crimea was illegally occupied and russia started to support the war in the east of ukraine. so i think we should have understood even better that 08.08.08 was a turning point and it should have been a wake—up call. i believe that a very useful way of looking at these kinds of occupied regions in our eastern neighbourhood is to take the human rights lens. what you see is that people living in these ‘breakaway’ or ‘occupied’ regions are denied their basic human rights. they have no chance to express their will and their wishes freely and they have no right to education in their native language. i think we have to praise the peace initiative that georgia has undertaken, which is a step to a better future whereby they invite the people living in these occupied areas to enjoy certain human rights like health, education and so on.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on wednesday 13 june 2018. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the report (a8-0189/2018) by mr urmas paet, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on cyber defence 2018/2004 (ini).
mr president, both the commission and the other eu institutions and parliament have done very good work and plans to improve cybersecurity but i fear that it is more in terms of the threats of today and yesterday. given that information technology is developing exponentially, by a factor of five or ten, and is actually coming into all areas of our lives, in the management of the information society, big data, personal data of people, health information, self-driving cars and other transport, etc., the question is how can we anticipate possible future threats without yet combating this technology and how can we also better prepare ourselves both with dual systems parallel systems and also with security programmes. for that to happen, i think the european union would need a very large and good cybersecurity centre, with both research and foresight.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on wednesday 13 june 2018. written declarations (rule 162)
the next item is the report (a8-0184/2018) by mr davor škrlec, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the 2017/2211 (ini) report.
i thank the president and the rapporteur. the big question for europe and the world is how to make economic growth sustainable in terms of quality and to curb the consumption of non-renewable natural resources. the approach to the circular economy from the perspective of cohesion policy is fresh and very timely. it gives us the opportunity to encourage local actors to develop new green solutions and innovations, technologies and jobs. at the same time, we are also supporting the vitality of rural areas in a sustainable way. regional development has already significantly boosted the circular economy. local success stories in regional development are linked to industrial symbiosis projects, where resources are used between different actors. at the same time, new entrepreneurship has been created. the second main objective, a greener, carbon-free europe, is a great opening and creates a framework for integrating the circular economy more strongly into european regional policy, but we have to look further. the next commission's agenda should therefore be a circular economy 2.0, where sustainable forest bioeconomy, bio-cyclical economy and the shift away from plastics, which pollute our seas, among other things, are taken more seriously than at present.
madam president, in this cohesion fund period, the circular economy was indeed not embedded among the finance priorities, and because of that we have used quite a lot of the money on the wrong courses with good intentions, namely, funding the construction of landfill and incineration while we already have an overcapacity of waste incineration in europe. indeed, we are still financing waste incineration, which should be brought to an end as soon as possible. we are creating a double benefit when we remove subsidies from the wrong courses that work against the circular economy and put those resources to work for the circular economy. the cohesion policy and the committee of the regions have a great role to play here because they gather together sme groups. they can develop the kind of hubs that serve as platforms for the development of new business models and new types of public procurement. in the future, only the projects that support the circular economy, sustainability and social inclusion should be financed from the cohesion fund. hopefully, with the committee of the regions, a sharing mechanism can be created where the best practices can be shared between different regions.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on wednesday 13 june 2018. written declarations (rule 162)
in writing. a year ago, the eu signed the istanbul convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence. this was an important step. we have to keep working to make this deal work. the member states which have not yet ratified the agreement should do so as soon as possible. the implementation of the convention in the member states shall be promoted in cooperation with the various branches of government. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. we need to strengthen the protection of victims. this starts with the victims feeling safe to tell the story of the violence they have experienced. this is due to the high quality of training and expertise of the professionals in dealing with victims of violence.
mr president, prime minister rutte rightly emphasized the legitimacy of the european union and at the same time the role of the national parliaments. that's exactly right. however, the impression was given that you were reserving a small role for the european parliament and the union, a kind of mini-europe, when you mentioned that perhaps there would be a role for common european issues in climate change. but is it not rather difficult to distinguish between european and national politics today? a lot of people in this town have already been pressuring you to shut down tax havens and tax evasion. you've already answered part of it. but i would also like to ask whether this digital revolution does not require, in particular, that new european and even global solutions can be found in taxation.
in writing. thank you for your speech, prime minister rutte. it is great that you have highlighted the unity of the european union in international relations and the importance of free trade. both of these are important to my country, finland, and to me. a united europe is needed more than ever in this world age. europe must act as a global leader and assume its rightful weight in the international arena. europe must promote and defend the common values of the rule of law, democracy, equality and human rights. the eu must act for peace and stability. the eu can also take the lead in trade policy. with the united states retreating and china consolidating its grip, it is vital that europe, as the world's largest trading area, sets the tone for world trade and is active in the negotiation of trade agreements.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 14 june 2018. written observations (article 162) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to deliver an opinion.
the following is the order of business for the debate on the question for oral answer to the commission by ms linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on development (o-000044/2018 - b8-0026/2018) and on the question for oral answer to the council by ms linda mcavan, on behalf of the committee on development (o-000043/2018 - b8-0025/2018).
thank you, member kyenge. the point i really wanted to make was that i have to speak a little slower because of the interpreters and i hope that the others will remember that.
the new negotiations will provide an opportunity to modernise the partnership between the eu and the acp states. the commission's proposal for a tripartite regional partnership with the african, caribbean and pacific states is therefore a very welcome and supportive basis and also strengthens the strategic objectives of both regions. the european parliament, for its part, has proclaimed human rights as a cornerstone and has also stressed the promotion of equality and the fight against climate change. i would like the future partnership agreement to reflect three things more strongly. firstly, a clear reference to the new sustainable development goals and aligning the partnership agreement with them and measuring them against them. the other is a stronger grip on women's rights. the third is to promote a circular economy, starting above all with a zero-waste society.
mr president, this strategy has not improved the situation of the roma in the member states. there has been some concrete improvement in the area of education, but marginalisation and also a relatively lower position in the labour market, in public decision-making, in access to services or in influencing one's own life have remained somewhat unchanged. at the same time, general attitudes racist and discriminatory towards roma have not changed much in europe. all this suggests that we need a new eu framework programme with more rigorous monitoring and also corrective measures for each member state when the objectives are not met. this means that a specific contribution is needed, which directly addresses the general attitudes, racism and discrimination which are unfortunately common in the various member states. this in itself is a good reminder of why we also need an anti-discrimination directive. we also need stronger participation of roma in decision-making in both the public and private sectors, and finally we need training that strengthens the relative position of roma in the labour market, that is, not as cheap labour but in those areas where there is demand for the future of work.
mr president, languages and language skills have a very special significance as part of the formation of european identity and also as part of improving people's interactions and developing european policy and dialogue and, of course, also as a prerequisite for moving to other member states in the labour market. this is why, as part of this european education area, special efforts should be made to increase the teaching of languages at all levels of education. when i say tongues, i mean two or three different languages. in this context, it is also necessary to promote the dissemination of these standardised european language tests to the different member states and to the different forms of education, so that we can demonstrate the level of language proficiency in the different member states on a joint basis. these are the wishes of the commission in terms of strengthening the language area and strengthening language skills.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, africa’s elephant population is drastically declining and, at the same time, globally the legal ivory trade is – and remains – at the same level that it was at six years ago, even though different kinds of attempts have been made globally. the record for seizures of illegal ivory was, actually, in 2016. we have fewer than 440 000 elephants today and poachers kill an estimated 55 elephants per day. so we need drastic and good actions. i would like to thank the eu member states and the commission for taking these steps forward, but this is not yet adequate. illegal poaching and the illegal ivory trade will not stop as long as legal trade in any form is open. we need to close the domestic markets. the eu is still the largest domestic market for ivory in the world and, by the way, we are also a major transit point for illegal trading in wildlife goods. china has banned the ivory trade domestically, the uk has one of the most stringent bans and the same goes for the usa and hong kong. what is actually needed now is for the eu to close its domestic markets totally. exclusion through special permits would be allowed for some antique instruments or issues like that, but normal domestic trade should not continue anymore.
mr president, literacy in the arts and culture is a capacity, comparable to literacy, to understand society and the changes around us. in fact, the ability to make culture and art and to read is a science-like ability to explain, understand and perceive new things around us. it is a central part of our civilization and civilization, with the difference that if the conditions for understanding cultural and artistic expression are not met from early childhood, learning them later in life takes much longer and is more difficult. it is therefore our common task, both in the member states and in the european union, to press for and contribute to the fact that cultural education in schools should receive the same funding as science, technology, engineering and mathematics, and that cultural education should also be part of early childhood education in day-care centres. this is particularly necessary for children and young people whose home environment does not provide the conditions or opportunities for them to be exposed to a wide range of culture and art.
in writing. corruption is a serious problem in the eu. according to various estimates, the economic losses amount to eur 120-990 billion per year. traditionally, the nordic countries have performed well in various corruption tests, but the risk of corruption in these countries should not be underestimated. structural hidden corruption and, in particular, good-brother networks based on reciprocal services are problematic. in addition, the overly close links between politicians and civil servants and the associated revolving door phenomenon are harmful activities. politically motivated appointments are also forms of corruption that are as destructive to society as outright bribery. such actions erode citizens' trust in the political system, which contributes to low voter turnout in various elections. the lack of transparency in the financing of elections also increases the risk of corruption. large donations to parties and candidates are used to influence policy and possibly even to buy the decisions that are desired. for example, according to the finnish election financing law, a campaign of a candidate for the european elections can receive financial donations of up to eur 1499 without the need to mention the name of the donor in the election financing notification. this seems to me to be in some way contrary to the rules of procedure of members of the european parliament, which require that all donations exceeding eur 150 be declared. transparency and public access to information are important in tackling corruption. whistleblowers must be effectively protected and have appropriate reporting channels ensuring anonymity. furthermore, strengthening an impartial, financially independent and free media and supporting quality investigative journalism are important factors in tackling all forms of corruption.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, oleg sentsov’s case illuminates the terrible lawlessness and repressive measures and climate of impunity that permeates the illegally-occupied crimea today, and we should not spare our words calling for the release of oleg sentsov and the other 158 russian political prisoners. we cannot watch this idly, and we have to notice that today president putin is celebrating the opening of the world cup. and we have to remember what happened after the sochi olympics in 2014 – just some moments after these celebrations closing the sochi olympics, the illegal occupation of crimea started. we have to now pay all of our attention to the people who are suffering in the prisons for politically-motivated charges, and i would like to particularly mention oyub titiev, the director of ‘memorial’ in chechnya.
rapporteur. – madam president, addressing myself to my colleagues and especially those meps who want to challenge the mandate: it is always easy to punish all for the crimes of some. not all transport companies are misusing their workers. not all transport companies are doing illegal or unfair market access. sadly, our usual solution is a collective penalty but in mobility package i we have, together, been able to find solutions to the biggest social and unfair competition problems, without a huge bureaucratic burden and without major collective penalties and still keeping a balance in the internal market. cabotage caused problems inside member states in national transport. now, we are limiting it to two days per member state and it will be posting from day one. nomadic driving: drivers have a new right to go back home by the end of a maximum of three weeks. we are ending driver misuse and letter box companies. for the first time, common strong enforcement is possible by using the latest technology available. if the national transport is posting from day one, colleagues voting against can go back home and tell drivers that in the future they might not drive for their national salaries anymore. instead, they could be paid a final country destination minimum wage. this is a two—way street. you need to understand what it means for the universally applicable collective agreements if you oppose the mandate. minimum wages might become the new norm and you should all be aware of that. currently, we do not have a common eu minimum wage level in transport and the posting of the drivers directive is not the right tool to do that. that is totally another discussion. i urge you to take a responsible decision and vote in favour of the mandates of all three files.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i will speak in finnish to show my support for the interpreters. arvoisa puhemies, pyydän käsittelyjärjestyksessä palauttamaan alkuperäisen äänestysjärjestyksen liikkuvuuspakettiin. kokonaisuus keskustellaan järjestyksessä kyllönen, van de camp ja ertug. järjestys on pysynyt aina siitä saakka, kun asiaa on käsitelty eri valiokunnissa ja täällä täysistunnossa, eikä puheenjohtajakokouksessa tehdylle muutokselle ole ollut konkreettisia perusteita. pyydänkin, että selkärankaisesti pysymme siinä äänestysjärjestyksessä, mikä liikkuvuuspaketissa on ollut alusta saakka.
mr president, only last week i had a chance to co—organise in brussels a photographic exhibition about climate change refugees. the faces, and especially the eyes, went really deep into my emotions, and being a north european mep, i cannot forget the sight of a dead reindeer; dead due to the effects of climate change and the constantly shrinking herding areas, putting the right of the sami people to practise their traditional profession into even more jeopardy than it is already. for me as an mep, the effects of climate change on the rights of indigenous people are really very close to my heart, because the warming climate is the direct, or indirect, cause of many of the violations against their rights. we need to understand and be aware of that.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteurs and congratulate them on the excellent report. secondly, i would like to thank commissioner thyssen and the commission for a very clear answer and for their activities in this field. this problem of forced – and unforced – marriages of underage girls and boys shows clearly that we need full competence of the commission in the field of constitutional rights, because if we do not have effective tools, both to address violence against women and girls in our own member states and to act on a strong basis in our third-country cooperation, we cannot be as effective as we should be. secondly, i hope that, in our development cooperation and bilateral cooperation, we can increase substantially our aid for education on sexual and reproductive rights for girls, because this is an area in which, globally, aid has been cut the most.
in writing. a few decades ago, forced marriages were marriages that couples considered the best because the woman had become pregnant. today, forced marriage refers to marriages in which very young girls, sometimes even infants, are forced or pressured into marriage. child and forced marriages are a serious violation of fundamental human rights. in addition, pregnancy and childbirth pose a shocking threat to the health of children. child marriage is prohibited by several international treaties, such as the istanbul convention, but concrete action is still sorely needed. a year ago, child marriage in finland became a scandal when a plan international campaign to raise funds featured a 12-year-old girl who was pregnant with her last child. the picture spoke a thousand words and sparked a heated discussion, which i consider nothing but a good thing. we're not going to get rid of our problems by not talking about them. in particular, as a result of immigration, childbearing has also increased within the eu. the rates of child marriage are appalling. an estimated four million girls are married off before the age of 15 each year. if the trend continues, it is estimated that by the year 2050, there will be 1.2 billion victims of child marriage worldwide. this development must be stopped. the root causes of child and forced marriage, such as harmful practices and customs, extreme gender inequality, poverty and lack of education, must be addressed. no religious or cultural reasons should take precedence over the rights of children. children must be allowed to live their lives without external compulsion or pressure to marry.
for the alde group mr president, european foreign and security policy must have a much stronger climate dimension than it does today. we are all happy with the paris climate agreement and the fact that the european union was a strong player in it. but one paris agreement is not enough, the climate dimension must be included in all eu bilateral and multilateral discussions and agreements between third countries, and in all bilateral discussions as well. in relations with third countries and in future trade agreements, commitment to the objectives of the paris agreement shall be required. the essence of this report is that we do not consider this paris climate agreement to be sufficient, but that practical agreements must be made to implement it. we cannot turn a blind eye to the cooperation between climate and migration. to this end, efforts should be made to develop, in conjunction with and within the un, a generally accepted definition of climate refugees. in fact, it's quite strange that even today there is no common global definition of what we mean by climate refugees. the eu must actively work to ensure that such negotiations are opened and that this issue is settled within the un framework.
mr president, although the european union has been a global leader in climate policy, it has also seriously underestimated the measures needed. i believe that our current climate package lacks about half of the effective measures we would need to stop global warming to below 1.5 degrees. this is why climate policy must be integrated into all eu diplomacy and foreign policy. eu-asia cooperation is a very promising area, as we know from china. the g7/g20 agenda should make climate policy the eu's number one priority. it must be in all development cooperation agreements and above all in trade agreements, and it also means that existing agreements, such as ceta, should be brought back into line. this also applies to food and the future mercosur agreement. it also concerns the type of products that are imported into the eu and how climate compensation or quality requirements are made here, and how the eu operates within the wto so that climate and resource efficiency criteria are actually also incorporated into international trade agreements and interpretations. in this case, too, dumping on the environment is unfair competition, which allows other member states to challenge their partners for inappropriate aid, for example through the wto. this is all we need and much, much more.
i myself, mr president, would like the european union to make the strengthening of the un a priority in its foreign and security policy. we will need a stronger and more multilateral basis for cooperation, which is legitimate, in the way that only the united nations can be. this system may never, but especially not lately, have had too many advocates. i think that our task should be to put the strengthening of the un at the centre at least as strongly as in the case of climate policy. it also means practical measures, for example in the own assessment of the millennium development goals, in terms of evaluating the creation of a benchmark for own action and also in terms of bringing it up as part of, for example, climate policy in cooperation with third countries. i hope that, as we have just been talking about climate, the eu could also include the climate refugee debate and its content in its un policy in the future.
mr president, 70% of europeans live in cities. the majority of our income is generated in cities. the majority of innovation clearly originates in cities because the diversity of cities and people, together with education, provide a favourable basis for innovation. cities also hold the key to land use planning, increasing green spaces and tackling climate change to a great extent, as various projects across europe have shown. i therefore hope that the next commission will be able to include in its work programme the strengthening of urban policy and, in this context, the increase in land use planning, even though there is no direct competence in this area. i particularly appreciate the fact that the report does not deal with the new bodies but with the urban policy unit and its operationalisation through the committee of the regions.
the question of the blue card. so far this debate has been interesting, but about 90% of all have said no to any of the measures proposed. i do not think that this big no-line and the big closed-border line will ultimately lead to any solutions. that's why i'd like to ask you, what would you approve of besides a closed-borders policy? do you agree to the amendment of the dublin regulation? do you accept a partnership with africa? do you accept the admission of refugees to different countries? what do you approve?
rapporteur. – mr president, i am a very pragmatic finnish mep who always wants to know and understand how the legislation that we create can work on a daily basis. i have worked for almost 12 years with transport legislation, so i dare to say that i have also got to know what works in this area and what does not. the report is the result of long and intense negotiations in the committee on transport and tourism (tran). the result is a balanced and fair report with enforceable and smart rules and careful consideration of the cross-border nature of international road transport. we did check the other opportunities: we counted salaries, working hours, prices of loads with specialists, and came to the conclusion that without huge bureaucratic burden, it is impossible to add the posting of workers regulation to international transport and transit in a fair game. so there is a real reason why the lex specialis needs to exist. whatever we decide tomorrow, it will shape the way in which international road transport will be performed within the eu. we either make sensible workable legislation, or create chaos if we choose that. we need to do it with understanding what we are doing, so please consider this. the posting rules are legally and practically inapplicable to drivers who work on a daily, or even hourly, basis in different member states. why would we knowingly make legislation that does not work? the tran report is the result of intense discussions with relevant stakeholders from both the employees’ and the employers’ sides. the tran report respects the highly mobile character of international transport, but imposes posting on cabotage and combined transport from day one to prevent unfair competition on the domestic markets. this is a significant improvement to the situation today. only international transport and transit is excluded, and there are several good reasons for why they are excluded. but you all need to understand that this doesn’t mean that drivers from countries with lower living standards working in international transport operations are out of social and economic protection. we already have existing legislation such as rome i: you just need to insert the enforcement in your own member states. you also need to understand that the general posting of workers was never intended for mobile professions such as drivers, pilots, air crew, train drivers, seafarers and inland waterway workers in international transport. the absolute majority of transport organisations and companies support tran’s, opinion as they all know that it can really work. the tran report restricts red tape and safeguards smes’ interests, leads to better enforcement and social protection, and respects the very special nature of a highly mobile workforce. we want to end up making legislation that will make it obligatory to apply up to 20 different national legislations a month with up to 50 different minimum wages, depending on the seniority of the driver, the truck, on the goods transported, and so on. this is what applying the posting rules to the drivers of international transport does. it is impossible to apply it in practice, and the transport companies and drivers themselves know it. we would create risk, pushing all the drivers into bogus self-employment, so let’s not do that.
rapporteur. – mr president, thank you for this fruitful discussion. it has been eye opening. i am quite sad that this ‘same salary for the same job’ does not happen in this house, either. not the same salary for staff, trainees and apas; not the same salary and equal rest time for translators; not the same taxpaying for each member state by meps, so maybe before the next election this will change. tomorrow, with tran’s solution, we can stop the practice of nomadic drivers in a way that ensures that the driver knows his or her salary beforehand. we can ensure effective enforcement of the posting rules in a way that promotes socially responsible behaviour by all actors in the whole delivery chain. the proper functioning of the internal market needs smart and enforceable common rules. the companies who operate on those markets need to know that they can follow the rules. the workers need the companies to have a job, starting from the driver, transport company, consigner, distributor, consignee, producer and, in the end, even the consumer. we need to know the effects on the whole chain, and actually the legislation which we have built in the committee on transport and tourism is a position which we have checked in this whole chain. we are not just politicians running for the next election, but also responsible legislators, so don’t forget that when you are pushing the button tomorrow. vote for the tran committee report. it is a balanced solution.
in writing. a smooth and unhindered internal market is the foundation of the european economy. the single market and the greatest possible freedom of movement must also be pursued in transport. the mobility package under discussion aims to reform the eu's road freight rules in terms of road transport, posted drivers and driver rest periods. it is important to tackle illegal practices and to strengthen enforcement. i am disappointed that many member states are now seeking to create artificial barriers to free movement and the single market. it's the wrong way. the transport of goods needs to be streamlined, the administrative burden reduced and practices clarified. the social rights of drivers must be safeguarded through better supervision and enhanced cooperation between member states. the driver cannot be held responsible, but the transport company. unfortunately, these directives have not taken enough account of the changes brought about by digitalisation and automation in transport. automation will have a significant impact on the work of drivers, for example, and the rigid regulation of working and rest times in their current form may create considerable obstacles to the rational organization of work and logistical planning in the future. the future work should be much more innovative. it is important to focus on promoting digital transport ordering systems. the digitisation of subscription systems will facilitate access to services through the internal market, increase operational transparency and facilitate supervision. transport accounts for one fifth of emissions and is projected to increase significantly in the future. while emissions have been cut in other sectors, they have only increased in the transport sector. the environmental friendliness and efficiency of the entire transport chain must be considerably improved. in the case of goods transport, empty or semi-empty transport must be avoided.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, yes, people should be helped when in distress. but sometimes people get themselves in distress in order to be rescued. everybody agrees that the migrants should not be drowning in the mediterranean. at the same time, we must remember that the people who are crossing the sea are mostly economic migrants from sub-saharan africa. they are coming because both libya and the mediterranean are easier and cheaper to cross than they were 10 years ago. these people take to the sea on rubber boats and other unseaworthy vessels because they know they have a good chance of being picked up by ngo ships that are waiting close to the libyan coast, and of being ferried to europe. those ngos thus contribute actively not only to the migration crisis here in europe, but also to the humanitarian tragedy in the mediterranean by luring people to the sea. good intentions cannot be an excuse for anything. stupidity should not be a european value. this maritime taxi service should not be able to operate with impunity.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we have seldom seen anything such as that which was witnessed over 1 may some weeks ago, ending up in the appointment of a new prime minister on 8 may, and it seems to me that the comprehensive and enhanced partnership agreement (cepa) will be the best possible roadmap to the reforms that this country now wants. that is why i am warmly supporting the consent of the european parliament. however, i must say that, in my group, there is a concern that, according to international law, armenia is a country that is occupying 20% of its neighbouring azerbaijan – and this overshadows the success we are seeing now and the new efforts and we need to ensure that the european union is doing everything it can to enhance a peaceful settlement of the conflict and the end of the occupation, rather than a military solution. concerning the elections, i think mr pashinyan announced, just two days ago, that the snap election would be taking place approximately one year from now, and i think this is a wise decision because they have time now to reform the electoral law. as leader of the ep delegation to the observation mission for the last elections, i can tell you we saw vote-buying and we saw intimidation of voters, and we definitely need to make sure now that the european union is doing everything to help so that nothing like that will occur in the next election.
rapporteur. – mr president, in accordance with rule 59(4), i request that the matter be referred back to the committee on transport and tourism.
mr president, the european parliament has done a good job in its statement against forced and child marriages. it also mentions reproductive health and abortion as important. while focusing mainly on external relations, it also calls on eu member states to condemn and end marriages of children under the age of 18. in finland, over a thousand child marriages have been performed in the last twenty years, about 1020 per year, and today a special permit can be obtained from the ministry of justice. not everyone gets a permit after consultation and parental consent. three years ago, the ombudsman for children and several other parties called for a clearer ban in finnish legislation, and now the minister for justice has also taken up the matter. i hope we can be clear about this at home and set an example for the eu countries. efforts should also be made to prevent girls from being forced into marital circumstances outside the official papers.
mr president, first of all, it is a question of the whole. we have three legislative motions relating to the mobility package and when one of them fell, it is better that the whole thing is prepared for a vote in the chamber. i personally think that it would have been good to limit the first of these packages, which also covers the scope of the posted drivers directive, to cabotage and the road transport part of combined transport. it would have touched on the area where the greatest number of abuses of workers and unfair competition take place. it would be clear that when internal cabotage transport is carried out, the driver would also have the rights of the country in which he is working from the very first day. it would also be important to have this in the chamber after the committee has re-drafted it.
mr president, although this too was referred back to committee, i really hope that this chamber will also support the future basis, which must be an improvement on the present situation. no one wants to look honestly at the situation where we have nomadic drivers driving around the streets of europe and staying in their own cabins. this is not something that is natural in today's european working conditions. the commission has therefore decided to extend the scope of the derogation to cover the following areas: i understand that when you go on a business trip you can stay for a couple of weeks, but the underlying proposal that you should be able to go home at the end of the third week at the expense of your employer is already a good improvement on the current basis and this legislation should be developed in that direction. we have been looking for flexibility in finland, the country of long distances, and i would also take it as a positive for the worker. from my own region in vaasa, when you go to the capital, the question is really essential, whether you will be able to return during working hours on the same day. it's a pity for the employee if an hour after leaving home he has to spend an hour off before he can get there.
mr president, i have a thorough hellenophilic upbringing because my father was a great admirer of antique greece. one of his books was called at the sources and was about places he went to in greece. however, it doesn’t help to know that the battle of marathon took place 2 508 years ago if you aren’t able to run the marathon of economic recovery. in this respect i congratulate the greek people for what they have achieved during recent years. but at the same time, i would like to remind the members of the house of the debate we had about the troika report, with othmar karas. if greece had been forced to follow the bad advice we heard from the left and the right, the situation today would be even worse. so please, use the mirror sometimes: in future, look to yourself and see what you have said.
mr president, in 2010 the finnish parliament for the first time discussed the economic crisis in greece and the aid packages planned for it. at the time, finance minister katainen assured me that the government's policy was that greece should take care of its own affairs. but the opposite happened, for emergency loans were tailored to greece. now, eight years later, greece is nearly 350 billion euros in debt. of this, 260 billion has come from the euro countries and the international monetary fund. in return for these loans, the greeks have had to cut pensions, wages and the entire public sector, but much remains to be done, for example, to reduce the shadow economy. tourism in greece is recovering and the country is expected to receive 32 million tourists this year. i hope they all know how to demand receipts for every transaction. in this way, they can contribute to the economic growth of greece and to the tax revenues. the objective, of course, is that greece repays all its debts.
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 162) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. the third and final financial assistance programme for greece is due to end on 20 august. investors' confidence in the greek economy has strengthened sufficiently to allow the country to exit the external assistance market for the private market. it is important that cooperation between the eu and the greek administration continues beyond the end of the adjustment programme and that greece continues the agreed reforms that will help the economy to remain on a sustainable footing. the completion of the support programme is a demonstration of the effectiveness of the eu's common economic policy. the difficult decisions made have avoided a greek exit from the euro and a systemic shock to the euro area as a whole. the euro area adjustment programme, which was intended to provide emergency loans, has saved the stability of the euro area and thus reduced the cost to taxpayers in the long run. of the 86 billion allocated to the scheme, 25 billion, or almost a third, will not be used. the greek example shows that the euro area's capacity to respond to crises needs to be strengthened. the development of the european monetary fund on the basis of the stability mechanism and the completion of the banking union would provide the necessary predictability and speed in future for crisis situations.
the next item is the debate on the recent statement by the italian minister of the interior on the sinti and roma population and the rights of minorities in the eu (2018/2777 ((rsp)) in accordance with rule 153a of the rules of procedure. i would inform the members that, exceptionally, there is no 'catch-the-eye' procedure in this debate and no blue-card questions will be accepted.
mr president, the european union has invested a lot of money in young people in recent years. as with all finance, we must look at this and remember that instead of staring at the numbers, we must look at the results. unfortunately, as regards the youth unemployment initiative, the estimates indicate that the funding has not served its purpose at all. these are the things that need to be discussed and weighed up when the money is not being used in the way that we want it to be used. so we're gonna have to see if we can change the way we spend our money. we have also launched a communication campaign for young people, with the eu distributing free train tickets to european young people. i think this is an example of an activity to which we should not be directing our limited funds, but instead should be directing these funds to the erasmus programme, which is an encouraging programme, which is of course aimed at young people, and which has very clear results.
the following is the report of ingeborg gräßle, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, and richard ashworth, on behalf of the committee on budgets, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the union and amending regulation (eu) no 2012/2002 and regulations (eu) no 1296/2013, (eu) no 1301/2013, (eu) no 1303/2013, (eu) no 1304/2013, (eu) no 1305/2013, (eu) no 1306/2013, (eu) no 1307/2013, (eu) no 1308/2013, (eu) no 1309/2013, (eu) no 1316/2013, (eu) no 223/2014, (eu) no 283/2014, (eu) no 652/2014 and decision no 541/2014/eu of the european parliament and of the council (oj l 347, 20.12.2013, p.
on behalf of the group of the party of european socialists, i would now like to ask mr bogusław liberadzk to speak, but i do not see mr liberadzk here.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, 5 july 2018.
the commission has also provided information on the number of cases of breaches of the privacy shield, including the number of cases of breaches of the privacy shield by the eu and the united states, the number of cases of breaches of the privacy shield by the united states, and the number of cases of breaches of the privacy shield by the united states.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 5 july 2018. written declarations (article 162) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
the following is the agenda for the debate on the request by cecilia wikström, on behalf of the committee, to the council for an oral question on the adverse effects of the us foreign account tax compliance act (fatca) on eu citizens and in particular 'incidental us citizens' (o-000052/2018 - b8-0033/2018) (2018/2646(rsp)) and the request by cecilia wikström, on behalf of the committee, to the commission for an oral question on the adverse effects of the us foreign account tax compliance act (fatca) on eu citizens and in particular 'incidental us citizens' (o-000053/2018 - b8-0032/2018) (2018/2646(rsp)).
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 5 july 2018.
for the verts/ale group mr president, just a few years ago moldova was a model of how well the country is progressing towards democracy. it was said that it was a pioneer in the eastern partnership. but it is now quite clear that the country is a parliamentary coup d'état and that there the majority of the parties, including perhaps mainly the sister party of the social democrats, have taken all power into the hands of the oligarchs. the consequence is the destruction of the rule of law, as demonstrated by the annulment of the mayoral election in chisinau. we cannot afford to be indifferent to this. it is essential to address this, because european values are now also being eroded within the european union. we have problems in poland, which we have discussed this week, and we have deep problems in hungary. we cannot allow european values to be treated in this way. we must act and then we must also consider macro-financial assistance.
mr president, thank you to the rapporteur for a good report and for the many important points you have raised. although women have been able to vote in elections in finland for over a hundred years, we have a lot of room for improvement in terms of equality between women and men, including in politics. i've been in the confidential business for over 30 years. before being elected to the european parliament, i was a member of parliament in the finnish parliament for eight years. officially, equality between women and men is recognised, but women are still made invisible in politics. we also have moderates, especially older men, who even publicly disparage and ridicule women who have made a career in politics, even in their personal qualities, claiming that they are cold, cynical and lacking in humor, for example. men in finnish politics are easily drawn into common hobbies, such as golfing matches and various sauna parties, where things are agreed between men in advance. i am afraid that this is the way it is done in many other countries, so we will not stop working for equality.
rapporteur. – mr president, nobody should deny the urgency of addressing and tackling climate change, which has become a question for the very existence of humanity and our planet. we have increasing scientific evidence that forest cover is the one feasible option we have for combating climate change. connected with that, we have to care for the soil, with its rich microbial life, which is the basis for life systems. however, we know that deforestation is currently the number two cause of greenhouse gas emissions. i believe that the eu has done a lot to try to protect forests worldwide, but it can do better. namely, the eu already has excellent tools, which can be used to assist our partner countries on the way to better development. we have, for instance, the eu forest law enforcement, governance and trade instrument, which we call the flegt action plan, and we have linked this with the voluntary partnership agreements, which have proven to be indispensable tools in improving forest governance in partner countries. these voluntary partnership agreements have brought stakeholders – i am talking about civil society, local and indigenous peoples, law-enforcement agents and governments – broadly together to the same negotiating table, to try to solve the difficult issue of deforestation so we can invest more in this important instrument in order to tackle corruption, which is often the cause of deforestation. we can also address the issue of so-called conflict timber just as we have addressed conflict minerals. i want to stress that there is a need for sufficient resources for these mechanisms and that parliament should do more to secure those resources. what is urgently needed, however, is a coherent, all-encompassing eu action plan to stop deforestation and forest degradation. this is already several years overdue and i hope very much that the commission will now take inspiration from this own-initiative report and will urgently open a genuine stakeholder consultation, which in turn will pave the way for the action plan against deforestation and forest degradation. i hope that commissioner mimica will continue to support these measures, which are outlined in the report. there are some striking examples of the fact that voluntary approaches to tackling deforestation in eu policy are not enough. for instance, in the cocoa sector, the eu is responsible for over 60% of global imports of cocoa, and the major part of the global cocoa supply is produced in côte d’ivoire and ghana. however – you may not believe this, but it is true – in côte d’ivoire, for instance, 40% of production takes place on illegally converted forest land. i am sure that we, as european consumers, do not want to see this continue. i’m very glad, too, to hear private-sector voices being raised to call for mandatory due diligence in the cocoa supply chains, and, with this report, i hope we can address these requirements at eu level.
mr president, the greek crisis has been declared over, despite the debt of over 300 billion euros. the weak tax collection and widespread tax evasion remain major problems. prime minister tsipras, you just said that you had succeeded in preventing tax evasion. my friends on holiday in greece have told me how they have often been told in shops and restaurants that the cash machine is broken and only cash is accepted. a friend of mine relates an experience when he wanted to pay for a large purchase with a credit card at a store, but the machine was broken. since she did not have enough cash, she decided to give up her shopping. and then, by some miracle, the cash register started working and the deal was made. do you, mr tsipras, have any information on the problems caused by these broken cash registers and how they can be restored to working order in greece?
mr president, there are problems in hungary when it comes to questions like corruption, the situation of national minorities, and so on. many of those problems are inherited from the past, and they are in no way unique to hungary. these shortcomings are not the reason why hungary has become the prime target of the commission and this parliament. the real sin of the hungarian government is that it wants to protect the country from damaging mass immigration from the third world. the hungarian government and the majority of hungarian voters do not wish to repeat the catastrophic mistakes we have made in western europe. i very much sympathise and support that position. unfortunately, liberal immigration policies and multiculturalism have become the european value in this house. almost anything else can be forgiven, but not questioning that value. this is why we are having this debate.
mr president, the economics behind the copyright system are becoming increasingly complex and we are trying to reconcile different interests. all sides are telling important messages. copyright legislation should focus on the protection of authors and performers and ensure that those with less bargaining power can effectively exercise and rely on their rights. legislation should never be used to strengthen an even stronger party. for example, in article 12 we found a sensitive but satisfactory solution in the committee on legal affairs from this point of view. but article 13 would require a better balance of power between rights holders and technology companies, and negotiations would be fair and transparent. rules and means must not violate the privacy and other fundamental rights of internet users. article 13 is not just a two-way street. users have rights too. that is why i think the imco and libe formulas are the best.
in writing. the eu parliament will now vote on its position on the long-prepared copyright directive. the aim is to ensure that authors are fairly compensated for their work, also in the digital age. the directive has been the subject of a huge international online campaign and a buzz mill for months. members of the eu parliament have received tens of thousands of emails in mass mailings, suspecting that the directive will lead to censorship, restrictions on freedom of speech and the destruction of the internet. this is certainly not going to happen as a result of this directive. for me personally, promoting digitalisation has always been one of the main themes. our epp group has put forward compromises for the vote in plenary to clarify the directive, and now the directive is clearly limited to only those large commercial online platforms whose one of the main businesses is to distribute copyrighted material on a significant scale for profit. in future, distribution will require a license or permit. small enterprises and non-commercial operators are not covered by this directive. although the directive is far from perfect, it is the result of a number of compromises and votes, and i do not think it should be scrapped now. otherwise, the necessary reforms could be delayed for years. once parliament has decided on its position, the copyright directive goes to a further consultation, the so-called trilogue, with the commission and the member states. the aim is to have the directive finally adopted in the spring.
i agree with the president of the commission, mr president, that the european union must strengthen its global role. we have influence internationally in trade policy, through international agreements, development cooperation and investment. europe can make a significant contribution to global development if we are united. the european union is currently being undermined by the fact that some of its member states are worryingly turning away from the fundamental values of the european union. the violation of these fundamental values, democracy, human rights and the rule of law, does not only affect the member state and its citizens, but affects all member states, affects relations between member states, affects our trust and, in general, affects the very nature of the european union. that's why we need to get serious about this. the european parliament had a debate on this yesterday. it is important that we have the tools to deal with this worrying development in the rule of law, which unfortunately is taking place in some of the eu member states. the european union can only function when everyone respects the common values, the commitments that have been made.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, you can be a european patriot and a finnish patriot. you can be a european patriot and a hungarian patriot, but you can’t be a european patriot and a nationalist. that does not go together. jean-claude juncker has spoken very nicely about his love affair with europe. we all know that love affairs are difficult; that goes for european love affairs, that goes for finnish love affairs and that goes for hungarian love affairs, but love affairs need possibilities and an ability to make decisions. if we can’t make the decisions about our love affairs, we are going to lose out and therefore, i am all for love affairs but i am all for decisions and i thank jean—claude for his nice words about his love affair with europe.
mr president, we are here on the side of the people. we demand that the member states also take action to protect their citizens. they must protect civil rights and the rule of law, and the rule of law is inseparable from freedom of the press, an independent judiciary and democracy. these rights also belong to hungarian citizens, now and also to future hungarian citizens. viktor orbán, these are you have to take into account the fact that even after the election, even if it was not a completely clean election, you still have to take into account the fact that you won the election. the winner of the election cannot go on breaking the rule of law, and european values are created for the implementation of article 2. the european parliament now acted on this legal basis and wished to initiate the article 7 procedure.
for the alde group mr president, i thank the rapporteur and my colleagues, we have prepared this report in very good agreement. the concern about the plastic challenge is shared by the whole of the european parliament, by the whole of the world. the finnish chemicals agency recently investigated products from cheap online shops outside the eu. almost all the toys, jewelry, and electrical appliances were in some way useless. toys contained life-threatening parts, electrical appliances caused electric shocks, jewelry did not contain the precious metals allowed, and cosmetics did not have ingredient lists. product design and consumer behaviour have a significant role to play in responding to the plastics challenge. there's a lot of low-quality, non-recyclable plastics on the market, so they have no value. in our waterways, in our lakes, in our rivers, in our seas, plastic is causing a lot of damage, damage that we don't even know about, the harmful effects on the ecosystem. mr president, i have said on several occasions that plastic is a good material: at its best it is durable, safe, cheap and versatile. the problem we have is that the material cycle is not working. we have to think about the plastic cycle as a whole, from start to finish. in line with the waste hierarchy, the priority should be to reduce waste, followed by reuse and recycling. mr president, we need an open-minded attitude. plastics can be replaced by products made from a variety of renewable materials. for example, non-plastic coffee cups are already on the market. research is being done and must continue to be done. of course, we individually must consider what we can do to reduce plastic waste.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when we in finland, sometime in the early 1950's, switched from toys made of wood to toys made of plastic, we thought we had made a huge step forward. some 70 years later, we see that this time was not so. while we are now determined to somehow limit the production of plastic, we must also find out where plastic is a useful product. where the plastic is used and cannot be replaced by other means. so we have a great deal of research to do, and we have to be aware of when plastic is directly dangerous and life threatening, not just to us humans, but also to fish and animals. we must find out where we can replace it, with products from the finnish forest for example, and where we cannot replace it and thus ensure that it continues to be produced.
mr president, the main objective of the plastics strategy is to reduce plastic waste. the good news was that we still have a lot of work to do, the bad news, of course, is that plastic waste is increasing exponentially all over the world. the disturbing fact emerged that only 30 percent of plastic is still recycled, about 30 percent goes to landfills, and about 30 percent is incinerated. the main objective now is to work towards the total elimination of plastic waste. it has a huge impact on both the economy and the environment. we've already got a lot going on. the new waste directive obliges member states to organise the recycling and sorting of plastics. it's an important step. the commission has also suggested that in the future plastics should be fully recyclable and that certain single-use plastics should also be phased out. one proposal included in the commission's multiannual financial framework is the introduction of a plastic tax, which would further encourage member states to recycle plastics. we still have a lot of work to do. one of the most important things for the consumer is that we need clearer labelling on which plastics can be recycled and how they should be sorted. on the other hand, industry also needs uniform standards for the use of recycled plastics. there's still a lot of work to be done on both of these. and also that we need to invest enough in research and development in this area to find sustainable bio-based alternatives to plastics that are environmentally friendly. this is the kind of work that is being done all over europe and it is important that we direct our research resources towards this. of course, this is also a major international issue. plastics are coming into europe from all over the world, just as plastics are being exported from europe to the rest of the world. it is important that we also seek to achieve international cooperation and standards in this area. i am very pleased that an agreement was signed with china in the summer on jointly promoting the circular economy, because there is clearly a common interest for both sides.
mr president, the world is indeed drowning in plastic and we need an ambitious plastic strategy. we have to stop plastic from getting into our food, our water, our bodies. however, a strategy alone is not enough, we need more ambitious legislation to make it mandatory to recycle and reuse plastics, because the leap to a plastic-free world is certainly not going to happen in a moment. we also need to continue to develop alternative materials to plastics. for example, by sustainably managing forests, we can combat climate change and replace many plastic products with wood-based raw materials. it is also necessary to make room for all innovations and solutions that promote the recycling of plastics. for example, the huge potential of chemical recycling as one of the key solutions to the plastic challenge should be recognised. meeting the challenge of sustainable use of plastics requires investing in cutting-edge science, where horizon europe, for example, plays a major role.
i have received one motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 128 (5) of the rules of procedure. this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 13 september 2018. written declarations (article 162) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. plastic waste has increased in a threatening way as plastic consumption has multiplied over the last few decades. only recently has there been a greater focus on environmental and sustainability issues. plastic is a useful and durable material with many uses. however, it is essential that it be used in a more sustainable way. plastic waste has devastating environmental impacts, for example on marine ecosystems, and its full health impacts on humans are not yet known. the amount of waste generated must be reduced. the recycling and collection should also be promoted, as currently only 30% of eu plastic waste is collected for recycling. the market for recycled plastics should also be encouraged, as the share of recycled material in new plastic products is currently only around 6%, according to the commission figures. the report calls for all packaging plastics to be reusable or recyclable by 2030. it's a tough goal, but it's necessary. i also think it is important to invest in research and development of alternative and environmentally friendly materials and, for example, in new recycling technologies. the eu cannot solve the problem alone. the majority of marine plastic waste comes from rivers in asia and africa, which lack the infrastructure for recycling and collection, as well as the public awareness of the problem. given the international nature of the problem, i think it is good that the eu is acting as a guide in this matter.
the next item is the report by ms karin kadenbach, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the european joint health action plan to combat antimicrobial resistance (2017/2254 (ini)) (a8-0257/2018).
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr president, for this comprehensive report which describes the challenges of the future of transport. i would like to focus on three major issues, the most important and urgent of which is the reduction of transport emissions. and that's where we have really big challenges, because we know that emissions in transport have only increased. the forecast is that traffic will increase significantly, so now we need really big cuts in transport emissions. in this connection, we have legislation under discussion here which also aims to guide car manufacturers towards being able to produce lower emission cars. it is important to take account of the wide range of technologies. the fastest way, as we know, is to add renewable fuel to the tanks of cars, because the fleet is renewing itself very slowly. but it is also clear that we must also promote the electrification of transport and other alternative fuels. the other big trend is digitisation and its promotion. on the other hand, digitalisation also helps us to reduce emissions by enabling us to design the entire transport system more efficiently. thirdly, i would like to highlight the european union's investment in both innovation and infrastructure. we are currently dealing with the budgetary frameworks for the coming period and it is important that we invest enough money in transport infrastructure, transport digitalisation, alternative energy and on the other hand in innovation and research, because we also need more information to be able to remain at the forefront of the world as a pioneer in clean transport in europe.
mr president, it is important that we have made major strategies to reduce plastic and that we are creating systems to recycle it. it is good that the eu has also acted quickly and that we have already implemented or are already working on concrete directives to prevent the use of plastics. since the whale was found with a stomach full of plastic and we became aware of microplastics and how they end up in the circulation, we've had strong public support to act. we need to save our oceans and also our ecosystems, where microplastics are abundant. there are many common challenges that are shared across the globe through our oceans, but also regional challenges. one of them is, for example, in my own country, on the baltic sea coast of finland, where snow is also dumped into the sea and, with it, various plastic products also end up in the sea. i therefore also hope that regional instruments and measures will be adopted, including those in the regional programmes which we are now negotiating in the context of the mff.
mr president, the information that has come to light about the persecution of homosexuals, the torture and the secret prisons in chechnya is appalling. it is inconceivable that the fundamental human rights of life, personal liberty and privacy are still dependent on a person's sexual orientation in the 21st century. i hope that these allegations made public will be thoroughly investigated and that those responsible will be held to account. it would also be important that victims and their family members receive all the support they need.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, thank you to eva kail and commissioner ansip, it has been really inspiring to work on the blockchain resolution here in parliament. it was great to see the enthusiasm with which the various stakeholders and members of parliament participated in this work. europe is clearly a pioneer in blockchain technology, and this is clearly an area where we have a very strong foundation to develop into a world leader in the future as well. it should be noted that blockchain is still an evolving technology, but it has a very high potential. what we discussed very much during that work was that we need to ensure that europe has a very pro-innovation regulatory environment - legislation that encourages innovation in the sector and also encourages investment. we shall be seeking to apply in particular where we have legislative needs. of course, companies often say, 'don't rush into any legislation', but on the other hand, it is very important that we have a european reference framework from the outset, because if we do not have a european reference framework, it will often lead to member states taking action on their own, and that would lead to the fragmentation of the digital single market. it is therefore important that we have a europe-wide take-up of this new technology immediately. i am very pleased that all the member states are now working on this and are looking together for areas of development where blockchain could be exploited together. the commission has also set up this blockchain observatory, where experts are also doing this same mapping. it is also important to invest adequately in research and development in this area. e commission has already invested eur 80 million and plans to invest another eur 300 million in blockchain technology over the next few years. it is a very important contribution, of course, for the whole of europe: investment in research and development, and ensuring that we have legislation to encourage innovation and investment. we also need to ensure that companies have a certain degree of legal certainty when they start investing in this new technology. among these applications, smart contracts have been featured. so they also need to be assessed in order to have sufficient legal certainty. there is a lot of talk about cryptocurrencies in the context of blockchain, but it should be noted that we have a lot of promising other sectors where blockchain can be used: transport, energy, healthcare and various supply chains, so it is a very potential technology. now we must ensure that our legislation is technology neutral and supportive of innovation and that companies have sufficient legal certainty when they start investing in the sector.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, all technologies pose difficult question when they arise: how to take best advantage of the new tools, but avoid potential pitfalls that might come along? blockchain and dlts are part of the great digital transformation, together with the development in the artificial intelligence, cloud computing, social media and very high connectivity, these new technologies will radically change the way we live. challenges are often debated here in the plenary, and they are many: security, privacy, trust and copyright, they are familiar to us meps. but some problems might have a straightforward solution. dlt will make sure that information moves at speed, but that it remains secure and that transactions cannot be manipulated as each party sees modifications. one promising application is in the field of copyright. a distributed ledger can give both artist and art consumers a better, more transparent method of knowing who made which piece of digital art, and i want to see applications in europe for example on renewable energies and electrical charging for cars. but there are other more wicked problems: take for example trust in society. how will dlt increase trust if new financial instruments based on the technology are volatile and not very transparent? moreover, how do we ensure that core functions of society, such as taxation or prevention of crimes, can still function in a world where data is not centralised? blockchain technology developers need to answer these questions when developing the technology and applying it, hopefully destroying some old thinking and models of the way of life today. i’m also curious to see how old companies will find new ways to integrate this technology. public sector and governments must also change and learn to do things better with the new technologies, and i’m very happy that the commissioner took up these concrete ways in europe as well. so madam president, i support the active role that the commission has taken, and parliament supported it in order to get involved in the possibilities offered by blockchain and dlts. the eu blockchain observatory and forum is now up and running. we as a society need to adopt a strong but soft approach to new technological possibilities. we must not curb innovation, but set the framework for a legal and trustworthy environment. we need to learn ourselves and be fast to recognise new situations and effects, and take corrective measures if need be. (applause)
madam president, the pace of development of new technologies is going to speed up exponentially in the future, whether the eu is on board on this development or not. it is going to be led from the asian countries and the usa. the eu has been lagging behind because we are disintegrated member states, not putting our efforts effectively together. so i am welcoming the commission’s proposal and this report that sets out the importance of the eu countries and the eu as a unit working together. this means a better leveraging regulatory environment. we have to bear in mind that regulatory environments create markets. if they are badly done they prevent markets but they are precondition for the birth of markets in the future, to set the internal market. we need better research, a better venture capital approach in this area and we need a better speed up of university cooperation with entrepreneurs. but then madam president i would like to look on the other side of the story, and this is the risks – not because i would be against these technologies, but just because i’m in favour of these technologies. with this speeding pace of development, new kind of challenges and maybe threats are going to emerge. if we want to preserve a good technology environment, what we would need to have in the future in the eu is a special agency concentrating on new technology threats and how to combat these in a proactive manner instead of just reacting later on after a crisis has happened.
the author. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i speak today on behalf of the committee on development, which, together with the committees on international trade and human rights, has put an oral question to the vice-president of the commission, the council and the commission. the question is whether the eu should participate in the development of a un instrument to influence the accountability of multinational companies for human rights. the un is currently implementing an intergovernmental process to develop a global system to address business-related human rights violations within the framework of international human rights law. this is a major breakthrough. the eu must be actively involved in the process. the joint question of the three committees is a proof of parliament's interest in the subject. it will help us to better understand the eu's current reservations about the ongoing un negotiations. we work together with the other eu institutions to better understand their perspectives and concerns. we also want to know when and under what conditions we can expect an official eu mandate to take part in the negotiations. what position does the eu intend to take next week when the next round of intergovernmental negotiations is held in geneva? i would like to remind you that the committee on development and cooperation has also adopted a resolution on this subject, in which it calls on the eu to participate in the negotiations initiated by the un. the aim is to reach an agreement that would hold multinational corporations responsible for human rights violations. the resolution will be voted on thursday in this sitting. i look forward to hearing the views of the other authors of the question.
mr president, it’s self-evident that the eu must take the lead in responsible business conduct globally but, in order to be able to do so, it must implement at home, and that’s why i need to emphasise the implementation at eu level of the universally agreed un guiding principles on business and human rights. where is our action? it’s much too late now. we have to undertake to establish binding due diligence for companies operating in europe. we must make sure that the victims of european companies acting abroad will get access to justice, and this is work that is long overdue. so please commission, please external action service, please let’s finally do that because that’s the only way we can be a global leader and take an active role in geneva. there is no time to waste, because there’s nothing more compelling in the political world today than the requirement on responsible business conduct.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, after the cop21 meeting in paris, we decided that we were going to stand for these principles, and therefore we created a framework which consisted of emissions trading, effort sharing and lucf. that is the framework. when you speak about effort sharing, we know that effort sharing is also already included in a social manner; that finland has 39%, sweden has 40%, denmark about 40%, and bulgaria 0%. we took into account the different possibilities of the different countries. that, i think, is fair. what we are now doing is trying to take a further step, and this step, if you look at the figures, is very important. if we fail in transport, then transport will kick back on effort sharing, on agriculture and on the budgets of the member states if they are not able to reach the goals. that is what we are actually now deciding on; we are deciding on the way in which we will go forward. therefore, if you look at the figures, transport is the only part of co2 that is rising. all the other curves are going down, but transport is rising. we have to take measures, and the only way you can take measures is to have clear—cut and ambitious goals; that’s the 40%. we also have to fix all the other things, and remember that when we speak about efforts sharing, it is running until 2030. to be able to look at effort sharing, we need something in between. that is 2025, which is in this year, so there is just one way to go, and that is forward.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i fully support the position of the committee on energy, research and technology. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. we cannot give the car industry any leeway unless we want to piss in our own, or our children's or our grandchildren's, crumbs in climate policy. the opening up of the car industry led to the diesel scandal, so we must now give the car industry a beating so that the new processes really move forward. if we want to save hundreds of millions of euros in european health care, we have to push this legislation forward. the money we save can also be used to innovate in the areas of climate, environment and health, which will also create new jobs that are badly needed here. i dare say that climate change pioneers will also create more of the much-needed new jobs back home than those who resist all the time.
mr president, we’ve just had the latest news from the trump administration in the usa: a forecast that the climate is going to warm up by four degrees, and the result is ‘we are not going to do anything’. we are going to have the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) report within one week. that will tell us how drastically different the world would be with the warming up of two degrees that we have already caught up with, without even talking about the future. if you refer to science, co2 emissions should be reduced by more than 50% in new cars, maybe 70%. we should make a drastic change to electric cars and new ways of moving. so this is a wake-up call. how seriously we are taking climate change is an issue. it is not adequate that we talk about the paris agreement. it is not adequate that the commission is coming up with new plans and commitments for 2030. it is a question of what we are doing here in parliament and the council right now and in different pieces of legislation. this is one of the key pieces of legislation, so i appeal for us to go for at least a 45% reduction in co2 emissions from cars.
mr president, there has been a great deal of debate in the last few weeks about how much we can demand of the car industry. it is clear that the car industry must do its part to reduce emissions. europe must become a leader in clean transport. but it must be remembered that the automobile industry cannot solve this problem alone, especially when we are talking about things that will be in force for decades. we need to be able to cut traffic emissions much faster. at present, more than a quarter of europe's emissions come from transport. we know that traffic volumes are forecast to only increase, and transport emissions are the only sector where emissions have also increased in europe over the decades. so the challenge is very big, and it requires much more than just solutions from the automotive industry. the fastest way to cut emissions is to use renewable sustainable fuels in cars that already exist, because it takes decades for the fleet to renew. what i do not like about this proposal is that it is so strongly driven by electric cars. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the european union is not able to meet the needs of the world economy. we know that there are many environmental problems in the mining of battery metals and battery production that also need to be solved. so the fact that we want to cut emissions in europe and globally is very important, but it requires a lot of action. this is only part of it, but it's important.
mr president, this is once again a perfect example of why we need more harmonisation, better integration and ‘more europe’. we had noticed that the existing system cannot tackle tax fraud and tax evasion, nor is it easy or manageable for those operating it. the answer is what parliament has been calling for and what the rapporteurs have talked about: a single, european, united vat system which is clear and simple, in which issues are resolved at european level, and which is supervised at european level. while this is being realised, i hope that, in the next review, the sustainable finance principles can be included in our vat system. this will mean that products with a higher environmental and climate load should have higher vat rates, while goods that are reused or recycled, or which impact less on climate change, should have a lower vat rate – instead of the haphazard approach to lower rates, with percentage point differences here and there, which we see at the moment. hopefully – and this is a message to the commission – provisions to that effect can be included, especially now that we have the commissioner responsible for climate change.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, if you listen to the left or the mainstream media you easily get the impression that fascism and fascist violence are the top threats to public security in europe. of course, any kind of violence should be condemned, but it seems to me that islamic and left—wing radicalism are much more relevant problems in today’s europe, including when we talk about anti—jewish violence. it is very unfortunate that whenever ordinary people express their concern over immigrant or islamic violence, they are immediately labelled fascists, racists and nazis. one very good example are the recent events in chemnitz, germany. many nationalist politicians and parties are systematically terrorised by the extreme left in many european countries. i find it worrying how little attention and condemnation this phenomenon gets in the public debate.
the next item is the debate on the minimum income: citizens' rights in a fair europe (2018/2864 ((rsp)) in accordance with rule 153a of the rules of procedure.
thank you, mr. speaker, you have now used your floor. you've exceeded your speaking time by almost half a minute, and that's obviously off someone else.
mr president, the measure of a society's strength is its ability to care for the weakest. integrity, equality and the avoidance of social exclusion also guarantee a safer and more competitive society. however, 120 million people in europe are at risk of falling into poverty. children, the unemployed, single parents and the disabled are in the greatest distress. the child guarantee, which my group is promoting, would be a step towards a europe for all, and i hope that this initiative will be supported in the negotiations on the financial framework. the risk group should be supported in housing, health care and education. poverty is hereditary, whether we like it or not. this would best enable young people to care for themselves and their future family. the different european models do not preclude the need to demand a livelihood to get by. the current system has been able to take account of the different countries, the nordic model and the countries with the lowest minimum wage. however, it should be remembered that a sustainable system requires the maintenance of the state economy. the economic collapse and the banking crisis have not helped a single poor person. we have had a basic social security experiment in finland which does not excite anyone: 560 euros for 2000 people, but we need a system which prevents falling into the gaps between the different social security systems.
mr president, the fight against organised crime and the financing of terrorism is an area where action is needed at union level, given the cross-border nature of the activities. eu countries must mutually recognise freezing and confiscation orders issued in another member state. the freezing and confiscation of criminal assets are effective means of combating organised crime. however, at present only 1.1% of illicitly obtained funds are seized. the aim of the proposed regulation is to facilitate cooperation between member states in the recovery of proceeds from crime by making it more efficient to recover the proceeds from crime. i am very pleased that the funds frozen and confiscated can be used to pay compensation to victims of organised crime and to direct funds towards the fight against organised crime.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, in 2009 banks became obliged to find out about their customers and the origin of money that flows through the bank, but the implementation of this law is still ongoing. more than 10 years have passed since the estonian and russian authorities first warned about suspicious customers in the profitable estonian subsidiary of danske bank. five years ago, danske bank was the subject of an internal whistleblower. four years ago, the estonian financial supervisory authority took action, and two years ago, the danish financial supervisory authority imposed sanctions on the bank. we are now discussing the potential for a huge loss for danske bank. today, in his speech on the future of the union, estonian prime minister jüri ratas assured us that they have zero tolerance for money laundering in estonia. if so, then i hope that all eu countries will adopt a similar zero tolerance approach to money laundering.
mr president, customs duties as traditional own resources make up a significant share of the eu budget, hence the consequences of large-scale fraud can be devastating. the fraud case in the united kingdom brought exceptional sums to our awareness, and new cases have shown that there is a pattern of deficiencies in our customs system, particularly in our ability to fight against fraud. the system not being harmonised leaves a variety of tempting options for criminals. they get to choose the weakest link. we indeed need a more harmonised administrative procedure and sanctions to the whole of the union. treatment should be the same throughout the eu. as long as we don’t have a harmonised system, the crooks continue to exploit the weaknesses. regarding the uk case and the eur 2.7 billion to be recovered, this has to be taken care of efficiently and effectively. i warmly welcome the commission’s infringement procedure and expect it will execute the european anti-fraud office (olaf) recommendations fully and swiftly. on top of recovering all of the fraudulently uncollected eu revenue, we need to prevent this from happening again. we have to break the pattern and dissolve the deficiencies. i expect the commission and the member states to step up and do everything in their power to enhance our framework for the fight against fraud in this regard. but, having said what i have just said, i cannot but wonder why it is that almost every time we discuss budgetary control issues – protecting european taxpayers’ money – we do it close to midnight. it’s a shame, and i don’t think it’s just a coincidence.
in writing. the european union spends up to €2 trillion a year on public works, services and goods. this is a huge amount of taxpayers' money and so procurement should be carried out as efficiently, ethically and transparently as possible. i welcome the fact that facilitating access to the procurement market is one of the commission's priorities in public procurement. i think it is very important that the tendering procedures are carried out in such a way that small and mediumsized enterprises can also participate. it is not right to tailor tenders to suit only certain companies. the report's recommendations, such as the subdivision of public contracts and the turnover threshold, are welcome in order to ensure a level playing field for smaller operators. in addition to supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, public procurement can be used to promote, for example, environmental friendliness and the circular economy, innovation and social objectives such as better care for the elderly and the disabled. i am concerned that competition in public procurement in the union has deteriorated in recent years. in some member states, a large proportion of tenders are single-bid tenders. this situation cannot guarantee the best possible services and procurement at the best possible price.
thank you, that is noted. the next item is the vote.
mr president, perhaps the fundamental problem of global human rights today is that the national legislative system has not kept pace with the challenges of the global economy. many companies engage in csr activities on a voluntary basis, and it is part of reputation management, for example, but as long as csr is based on voluntary action only, there will be companies that will go where the barrier is lowest and the cost is lowest, thus benefiting from a false competitive advantage that may put human lives, health or the environment at risk. it's good that corporate responsibility lives on many levels. the main objective of today's hard vote was the un convention on international business and human rights. of course, europe must lead by example and lead the way in order to bring about such an international agreement. thank you to the majority of the house of representatives who voted for this! waiting for an international agreement or european framework in my country in finland, the #ykkösketjuun campaign has been launched to seek national legislation, a corporate responsibility law, which would oblige companies to investigate the impact of their activities on the realization of human rights.
that concludes the vote.
mr president, it was not surprising to us that the international climate panel, the ipcc, said that the measures already promised and those already taken are not enough to prevent global warming of more than one and a half degrees. we social democrats have worked to ensure that the eu's practical measures match the words. the itre renewable energy, energy performance of buildings and energy performance in general directives have already been agreed with the council. the direction is right, but the pace is insufficient. in the past, commissioner cañete has estimated that the measures will lead to a 45% reduction in emissions by 2030. we need more, faster, like he just said. i support the extortion of the eu's objectives. we also need a strong commitment from the member states. i expect a coherent, important, long-term strategy for reducing emissions from the commission before katowice. we also need the decisions on the blackmailing of the emissions trading system. we need clean energy, technology and sustainable material solutions. political leadership is needed in the world to give markets a clear direction and to empower consumers, and for the sake of children, we need to take responsibility for a sustainable planet for the future.
in writing. the problems caused by climate change are not far in the future, but its effects are already visible and felt. greenhouse gases reached record levels last year, temperatures are above average, arctic ice is melting at record rates, and extreme weather events are becoming more common. the earth has already warmed one degree from pre-industrial times. in addition to humans, many plant and animal species are threatened by further warming. the report released in october by the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) illustrates the vast difference between 1.5 and 2.0 degrees celsius of warming. to achieve a 1.5°c global warming target, ambitious measures are needed, including investment in new technologies and significant cuts in emissions. to stick to current emission commitments would mean a global warming of 3 degrees by the end of the century, with catastrophic consequences. i hope that at the meeting in katowice, which is to decide on the practical implementation of the paris agreement, all parties will understand the seriousness of the situation. the scientific community has spoken, and now it's time to act. climate change is a challenge of its magnitude, requiring cooperation and the sharing of carbon between all countries and all citizens.
on behalf of the ecr group. mr president, thank you to everyone who has contributed to the preparation of this very important report. water is the basic condition for life. the un general assembly declared clean water a human right in 2010, and an eu citizens' initiative on the subject gathered over 1.8 million signatures. we must therefore strive to ensure that all citizens have access to high quality water at an affordable price. the report aims to update the 1998 drinking water directive to reflect the present situation. the updated directive harmonises drinking water quality requirements in a way that they are based on the latest scientific knowledge in line with the recommendations of the world health organisation. legislation will also be adapted to better respond to the challenges of climate change and the circular economy. water quality information should be accessible and easily understood by citizens. this would also encourage water suppliers and national authorities to do their utmost to achieve the water quality standards set by the directive.
for the alde group mr president, we must first ask ourselves what we really want. we want to get rid of micro- and nano-plastics, we want to get rid of plastic cars floating in the world's oceans, we want to get rid of plastic trash that's polluting our beaches all over the world. i have a very vivid memory, as the rapporteur, mr rieskin, has already mentioned in this opening paragraph, of our expedition to the finnish islands when i was a child. and then there were all kinds of exciting treasures on the beaches. they were usually wooden boxes, which were imaginatively imagined as being left behind by some pirate of robert louis stevenson's. they were useful wooden objects, at least to a young man. today, if i go on an expedition with my grandchildren, there are no such exciting and interesting discoveries on our shores. there are all kinds of pretty disgusting plastic objects that don't really help children's imaginations. but while we welcome the commission's action on this matter, we need a global mapping of the types of plastics we use, where they are useful, where they are replaceable, where they are not replaceable, where they are harmful. only by mapping the whole of the eu can we tackle all these challenges in a sensible way.
mr president, the european union generates as much as 26 million tonnes of plastic waste a year. it's a huge waste, both environmentally and economically. it has been estimated that we lose up to 100 billion euros of value every year because of the plastic that is thrown away. it is quite radical for the commission to propose that certain single-use plastics be banned altogether from 2021. but it's a sensible line, because there are already more durable substitutes for these items, so they can be easily discarded. it also speeds up product development, which allows us to make more sustainable, better, more environmentally friendly products. i therefore support the commission's proposal for a total ban on certain single-use plastics. it is also important that we otherwise strive to reduce unnecessary plastic waste. the proposal that all member states should organise a collection of plastic bottles should be supported. in my own country, finland, there has been a bottle-sharing system for decades, which has allowed more than 90 percent of plastic bottles to be returned and recycled, and not to end up on the beaches. we know that in the ocean, it can take up to 400 years for a plastic bottle to decompose. but one flaw in that commission proposal is that single-use bags with low levels of plastic could also be banned under this directive. this needs to be changed, because we know that plastic cardboard cups are very environmentally friendly, but they require a small amount of plastic to keep the liquid inside. we must fix this here in parliament.
mr. speaker, the work of a journalist has become dangerous. according to the committee to protect journalists, 64 journalists have been killed this year alone around the world. one of them is khashoggi, who was murdered on the premises of the saudi arabian consulate in istanbul. it is of the utmost importance that an open investigation into khashoggi's death be conducted on a timely basis to bring clarity to the events and to hold those responsible for the murder accountable. it is absolutely unacceptable that journalists are being disrupted in various ways, in extreme cases even by murder. freedom of the press is a very important value that must be defended. i therefore hope that parliament will give its strong and clear support to the investigation into this and all other murders of journalists.
mr president, high representative mogherini, you have rightly called for an investigation into the murder of journalist khashoggi, an open investigation, but that is not enough. the eu countries must commit themselves not to sell arms to saudi arabia. it's the least i can do. the eu's values are at stake. do we value human rights and freedom of the press? or is it more important to get the oil and the money talks? this murder has been cruel. we do not yet know all the details, but all that we have heard is certainly something that cannot go unpunished.
the next item is the statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in the azov sea (2018/2870 ((rsp)).
i have received five motions for resolutions tabled pursuant to rule 123 (2) of the rules of procedure. this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 25 october 2018.
statement by the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in venezuela (2018/2891 ((rsp)) is attached to the agenda.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i have to say that, having dealt with the agency’s discharge for several years now, this one is a really tricky one and i’ll tell you why. usually, i don’t want to mix different discharge years with each other – we should be dealing only with the discharge year that we are dealing with – but, in this case, we have a situation which is a little complicated. i respect the rapporteur’s creativity to get us all off this unpleasant hook, but i have to say, quite honestly – and noting also what commissioner avramopoulos said – that the commission had rather limited ways and chances of really knowing what was going on, but that means that parliament’s role in this one is exceptionally important and that is why we should not make a compromise. most of the problems and irregular activities were related to the actions of the previous management and now some people are mixing up whether we are discharging the person or the institution, but even looking at it both ways, it is the same outcome. we should not discharge an agency for actions that were taken in 2016 when, as a matter of fact, the european court of auditors is telling us that the situation got even worse after that in 2017. so how are we going to deal with the 2017 discharge if we give them discharge now? this is why i honestly think that, in this case, it is a little different. we should look at 2016 and 2017. also we don’t have the report from olaf yet so we are blindfoldedly giving discharge if we give one tomorrow. that’s why i am asking all of you to reconsider this once more.
blue-card question. – mr president, as we all know, a blue card is for a question, so therefore i will ask you a question. when the dust has settled, after tomorrow, i will ask you, and also the rest of the right side of the chamber: how on earth can you mix the work that the agency is doing and the role that the directorate-general for migration and home affairs (dg home) and the commission is playing with the irregularities of a couple of people back in 2016 and 2017? how can you mix those two things? how do you explain this to the citizens?
mr president, up to 85% of marine litter is plastic litter. half of this plastic waste floating in the sea consists of products designed to be discarded after a single use. the proposal aims to ban certain single-use plastic products, such as cutlery, plates and bowls, which can already be produced from alternative and more durable materials. the aim is to increase the collection rate of plastic bottles to 90% by 2025. this objective could be achieved, for example, by an efficient bottle collection system based on a pledge, which could be further enhanced by raising the price of a bottle of wine to, for example, one euro. i am positive that the packaging of products contains information on the harmful effects of littering and on how the waste generated should be sorted. all operators must play their part in reducing waste and the environmental impact substantially. the result is a clear step forward and it was very easy to vote in favour of a good report.
draft opinion of the committee on agriculture, rural development and fisheries mr president, antibiotic-resistant bacteria are a major threat to public health. as we know, about 25 000 people die every year in the eu from diseases caused by superbugs. it's great that we're starting to see a change in this development. the way we treat our animals also says a lot about us. the welfare of farm animals is also in the interest of the producer, because a healthy animal produces better. the main cause of antimicrobial resistance is the overuse of antibiotics in livestock farming and also in health care. this regulation establishes for the first time common rules for the use of unnecessary antimicrobials in animals. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for the great work they have done over the years. the excessive use of antibiotics must indeed be abandoned. once the regulation enters into force, it will be forbidden to prescribe antibiotics until the animal has been examined and also found to be sick. this has been our way of doing things in finland for a long time and it is important that the same rules apply throughout the eu.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to warmly thank the extremely strong negotiating team which worked energetically to the end of this long process. according to the world health organization, antibiotic resistance is one of the greatest global health threats. some actors are already comparing antibiotic resistance to climate change, because it's global and it's affecting us everywhere. in 2017, more than 750,000 people worldwide died from bacterial diseases that could no longer be treated with antibiotics. it should at the very least make us even more active in each member state. developing new antibiotics is also a real challenge. we have to be very careful about the way we treat the animals, and we must not forget that the animals are not the same as the animals. growth-promoting antibiotics are still used in the feeding of farmed animals in many parts of the world, especially in the united states and brazil. chinese agriculture has also been a heavy user of antibiotics, which has led to the emergence of a whole graveyard of antibiotic resistance in chinese agriculture. it is important that imported products also keep pace with the european cost of living. thank you all again.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to thank the rapporteur and my colleagues for the good and constructive cooperation we have had on the legislative front. if we want, as i hope we will, to achieve the common climate targets in a burden-sharing and balanced way, then the transport sector must also take a wide range of measures to reduce emissions. the legislation under discussion today is also part of this work to reduce emissions. and so, if we were to create systems that are fair, usable, that work for everyone, that are intelligent and yet easy to use, it would at least guarantee the possibility of the best possible acceptance among citizens, that is, users. i would have been prepared to cut funding, precisely because our existing transport network, our basic road maintenance network throughout europe, is in a very poor state. of course, this is evidenced by the many types of accidents with very bad consequences and loss of life. so, i'm gonna need an order for the ear tag. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's transport policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. thank you for your cooperation.
on behalf of the ppe group mr president, it is certainly justified that public procurement should also aim to promote environmentally friendly and clean vehicles. however, it is important to leave sufficient flexibility and room for manoeuvre at member state level, as conditions vary widely across europe and member states, municipalities and regions have the best idea of how to best promote clean transport. it is a serious shortcoming that we have not been able to define heavy goods vehicles and their use of biofuels in clean transport. we know that biofuels have a significant role to play in clean transport and it is certainly a pity that they have not been taken into account here at the appropriate level. otherwise, the calculation methodology, which only considers exhaust emissions, does not sufficiently cover the total energy consumption and environmental impacts. so in this respect we should be able to promote and improve the calculation method by which we determine what is considered a clean vehicle. i am very pleased that the committee on the environment has paid attention to the battery industry and its development needs in europe. as electric transportation advances, it is increasingly important that battery production also be based on sustainability. that means we have to get a significant battery industry into europe and we have to get raw materials from europe as well. at the moment europe is far too dependent on import guarantees, on imported goods. it is not sustainable at this time, especially when the need is going to increase significantly.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's clean energy package has been eagerly awaited. i hope we can also achieve these common objectives at the level of the member states. voting in parliament alone is not enough, but concrete action is required from the member states. for example, the guidelines for the use of renewable energy have now been set for the next 12 years. of course, the guidelines could have been even more ambitious, because our climate continues to warm, and the ipcc report was really not something to be happy about. it is sad to see that we continue to contrast jobs with climate and environmental work, without understanding that the real green revolution comes from the fact that we create new ways of producing energy, we create new ways of doing things and we can also market them to the world. i don't think any country wants to be destroying the environment, the climate, our planet any longer. there may have been some momentary disappointments, but i must say that the overall package is now one that i can personally support. the situation is improving, at least in relation to the current day realities in the member states.
mr president, the recent report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change reminded us that urgent and ambitious action is needed to halt global warming. the clean energy package includes reforms on energy efficiency, the promotion of renewable energy and the governance of the energy union. in this way, the union aims to achieve its commitments under the paris agreement to combat climate change. improving energy efficiency also reduces dependence on energy imports from outside the eu and reduces energy costs for households and businesses. at the same time, it will alleviate energy poverty, i.e. a situation where a retired or unemployed citizen can no longer afford to live in an old home because of the high cost of living. in the coming decades, energy poverty may become an even bigger problem in the north, such as finland, if the price of energy rises faster than people's real incomes. i hope that all the good efforts of the energy package will succeed. the eu must do its part to combat climate change. at the same time, however, care must be taken to ensure that citizens have access to affordable housing and living conditions.
i am glad and relieved, mr president, that after tomorrow's vote, a real message of encouragement will be sent from this house to all those europeans who are developing the most advanced solutions in the world to reduce emissions. the main emphasis must be on moving away from fossil fuels, and this requires rapid action across a wide range of sectors. for example, the transition to low-emission transportation is in dire need of the emission reductions provided by sustainable biofuels. biofuels can be quickly applied to the entire car fleet and also to air transport, which unfortunately is growing all the time. i have a question for all those in this parliament who are opposed to bioenergy. do you really want to achieve the ambitious emission reductions we have committed to at eu level? i want and therefore need to get such decisions from the eu, which people can prepare for in advance.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held tomorrow, tuesday 13 november 2018. written declarations (article 162) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
in writing. the european union must defend its leading role in combating climate change. the european union has shown that sustainable growth is possible. while we've reduced our emissions by 23%, our gdp has grown by 53%. we will also achieve the 2020 targets earlier. the european union must continue to pursue ambitious but realistic targets for reducing emissions. the aim is to increase the eu's energy efficiency by 32.5% and increase the share of renewable energy to 32% by 2030. these are important steps to reduce emissions and to meet the commitments of the paris agreement. we must fight climate change now, while we can still influence global warming. the european parliament must stick to its line that the european union should tighten its own emissions reduction target to 55% by 2030. the european union is a world leader in the fight against climate change. the only sector where emissions have increased in the eu is transport. this is why co2 emission limits are being introduced for the first time not only for new passenger cars but also for lorries. but the european union cannot tackle climate change on its own. as the european union accounts for less than 10% of global emissions, the union must actively work to engage major emitters in the common objectives.
the following is the report of mr ruža tomašić, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a multiannual plan for the stocks of small pelagic species in the adriatic sea and the fisheries exploiting those stocks (com (2017) 0097 c8-0095/2017 2017/043 (cod)) (a8-0337/2018).
this conversation is over. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 november 2018.
the next item is the commission statement on floods in europe (2018/2928 ((rsp)). there will be no requested speeches or blue card questions in this debate.
i would also like to make it clear that there is only one round of speeches by the political groups in this debate, so there are no requested speeches or blue card questions.
this conversation is over. written declarations (article 162) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament.
mr president, respect for the rights of minorities is the duty of every civilized state. people must be treated equally, regardless of their ethnic origin, religion, sexual orientation or other factors. non-discrimination is an important principle that applies in all directions. i also do not support positive discrimination, whereby minority representatives are favoured at the expense of the majority, for example in university student selection. the report encourages member states to allow the use of minority languages in public services and in official contacts. this is the direction taken in finland, for example, where the national pension fund, which distributes social benefits, even launched an arabic-language telephone service a week ago. however, this entails costs and may not be sufficient in terms of public resources to provide services in the many other minority languages. i would think it would be more sensible to deal with such situations in the official languages of the country or in english, which is the world language.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. we have perhaps seven or eight different challenges in relation to this budgetary framework. the first concerns education, research and innovation. it was shown in the previous framework that when the eu added money, the member states took care to take money away. it therefore became a zero-sum game in which europe did not really win much. the second challenge concerns the structural programmes. when we look at developments in east-central europe - the countries that have lived under various forms of dictatorship for almost 80 of the last 100 years - and the way their structural programmes work, we are struck by the suspicion that the structural programmes are simply not the right size. the third challenge will be our climate policy. we are facing major challenges there, and i suspect that we are already lagging a little behind and not keeping up the pace that we should be keeping up in relation to the paris agreement. we have great security challenges, both internal security and security in a world that is sometimes dictated by donald trump and vladimir putin. we may therefore need more security and more arms. we have challenges in agricultural policy. we need agricultural policies that also manage to emphasize the need to capture carbon dioxide through agriculture. finally, we have perhaps the greatest challenge in what i call margaret thatcherism. most member states have only one thought, a margaret thatcher thought, in their heads: i want my money back. of course, that is disastrously stupid. we must learn to think in other terms, that this is about a european future, that this is about our common european challenges, and that is the way we are going to go.
mr president, i would like to say to the chancellor that we are now celebrating 70 years of the universal declaration of human rights, and i noticed that she herself had expressed doubts about whether such a declaration could be adopted today in the atmosphere we have. madam chancellor, to quote you, you said: ‘i fear not’, and i would like to ask you how to deal with the autocrats that are surrounding the european union who don’t care about this declaration; how to deal with the threats within it (that has been mentioned many times in this discussion); and i wish you had said something about your own political family that seems to tolerate illiberalism and populism and nationalism. is it not something that we should address, because if we don’t start at home, how can we defend universal human rights in the world?
mr president, i would like to thank mr mamikins for his report on georgia, and commissioner hahn for his excellent work on the eastern partnership. if we put georgia on a map we can see that in certain international rankings georgia does better than many eu member states. in the transparency international corruption perceptions index 2017 georgia is no 46, whereas, for instance, romania is no 59, so we see that georgia is steadily making progress and we have to encourage georgia to do even more. we have seen lately that georgia is working on the association agenda – for instance on labour law inspections, protection of the labour force – which is very important in order to be at such a high place in the international rankings as ninth best business environment, but it definitely needs labour protection. let me mention that we just had the seventh parliamentary association committee meeting recently and we raised a new topic – environment. we hope that georgia is doing a very important job on improving environmental protection in the fight against climate change.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the global compact for migration (gcm) is a non-binding policy paper. however, many countries, including the us, australia and some members of the eu, have already declared that they will not join this declaration, as they believe it would limit their sovereignty in immigration matters. in terms of content, the gcm is a misguided and dangerous document. what europe is facing is a century of massive migratory pressure from africa and the middle east. this is an existential threat to our societies. you simply cannot tackle this kind of a problem with a migration policy that is only focused on the rights of the individual migrant or by opening new legal avenues to europe or by silencing criticism with hate speech legislation. we need effective tools to curb mass immigration from the third world. the gcm, unfortunately, does not offer such tools, and therefore, it would be wise for all eu member states to withdraw from it.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the ecr group does not support the idea of a humanitarian visa. the problem is that the asylum system is being abused on a massive scale as a channel of economic migration. the humanitarian visa would only make things worse. it would increase the overall number of applications and, as we have seen, it is very difficult to repatriate even those whose application has been rejected. there are many practical issues. who exactly would be entitled to a humanitarian visa? how could we ensure that all member states would apply the same criteria and that there would be no weak links as there are today? how could we prevent holders of humanitarian visas from disappearing in the schengen area, and so on?
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, one of the great drivers we have in our society that is spreading good is information technology. it has made our lives easier, brought with it new services and technologies, but we haven’t seen it all yet. the change has only just begun. this morning i came from paris where i had the privilege to head the parliament’s delegation to the internet governance forum. europe is at the forefront of the digital revolution but we need to cooperate with the rest of the world and we have to make sure that we have common goals for the right use of the digital tools. to deliver that digital revolution, we need this european electronic communications code. if we want better digital services, we need better digital infrastructure. if we want connected cars or if we want e—health solutions, we need fast 5g. if we want our schools and universities and businesses to thrive, we need gigabit connectivity to use artificial intelligence and cloud computing. if we want to see the next ground—breaking services to make our lives better, we need fast internet connections for all homes and mobile devices. internet connectivity is a modern right for every european and we have defined what a very high capacity network is. it’s not just in these connections that you see that you are connected but your program doesn’t work anyway. we need fibre to boost things and we need more very good connections. the key problem we’re trying to solve here is how we can get faster, better and cheaper connections. we need this for all europeans while maintaining the right conditions for investment so that it can happen. the outcome here today, agreed after eight months of trialogues and negotiations, reflects the parliament position well. we have achieved the goal of promoting investments while making sure that consumers in europe retain the right to choose their operators. the new rules for co—investments are complex and some details will be up to national implementation, but the message is clear: there can be no turning back to the monopolies. one key technology for revolution is 5g and very fast connections. it’s high time for member states to see that we need common rules for spectrum as well, and we need the spectrum bands to be out there at the latest by 2020. with this legislation i am very happy to continue to ‘roam like home’ but to turn it the other way round, so next summer everyone can enjoy calling friends in other eu countries for a maximum of 19 cents per minute. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i very much share mr rübig’s worries. i would like the commission to react quickly. as we will see the roaming follow—up this year, we see that mobile virtual network operators (mvnos) cannot join the same retailer operating markets, but then the wholesale market prices are too high – even the ones we agreed with the council and took down a lot last year. it still shows us that the retail markets for consumers get cheaper prices than the wholesale market caps that we agreed and halved the proposal from the commission. even the council wanted to get it higher. so it’s of the utmost importance that we get this functioning, and we need new legislation for that.
blue-card question. – mr ferreira, i disagree with your proposal that, to turn the clock back, we would need more european legislation. at the congress of the internet governance forum (igf) i met a farmer from spain who was very disappointed that the regulator there doesn’t support local community networks, building networks for places where there is no connectivity. they are waiting for the incumbent to maybe build there later and they don’t get help from the national regulator. this was one case where they wanted the body of european regulators for electronic communications (berec) to have the opportunity also to enhance competition inside the countries. how do you see this?
the commission is also preparing a report on the implementation of the new rules. mr president, this is indeed the first time that co2 emission limits for lorries are being set at european level. the committee on transport, unlike the committee on the environment, considered that the emission limits proposed by the commission were quite strict and demanding. 15% emissions reduction by 2025 and 30% emissions reduction by 2030. the committee on transport considers these to be extremely strict objectives. we supported these absolute figures from the commission because, although there have been no limits on co2 emissions from lorries, they are already quite efficient because fuel is such an expensive item of expenditure for transport that very good energy efficiency has already been sought. the committee on transport's own opinion continued to criticise the fact that we are too focused on measuring emissions at the end of the tailpipe. we should have a calculation method which takes a better look at the whole energy consumption and, in future, the whole life cycle. this would give us a better picture of transport emissions and also enable us to promote a variety of alternative fuels.
for the alde group mr president, commissioner, rapporteur bas eickhout, for the first time we are setting up a system for heavy transport. of course, then, it would be moderately wise to do it more right than less wrong. there are at least two major considerations to be taken into account. the first is the recent ipcc report, and the second is our old decisions about burden sharing. the ipcc report pointed to four different paths forward. some of those paths are moderately good, the last one will be very costly for future generations. that is why i am naturally in favour of choosing a path where payments are made now and not left to the next generation. in the burden-sharing decisions we agreed that the countries which are better off technologically and economically will take a bigger step and those which are a little weaker will take a smaller step or no step at all. the countries which have been forced or promised to take these big steps in this respect may now find themselves in a rather weak position if we are not ambitious enough. that is why bas and i have been in a rather united position that we must now take clear steps forward. it is time to show courage and to show that we are responsible not only for the environment of today but also for the problems and the world of future generations.
this time, which is very rare, we are not in a hurry, so i ask you to speak calmly, but above all to be considerate of the interpreters and, of course, of all those present and listening.
this conversation is over. the vote will take place today, wednesday 14 november 2018. written declarations (article 162) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
mr president, it is important to protect the integrity of our democracy against undue external influence. but there is a dangerous tendency in the mainstream politics and media to explain any unpleasant election result as an indication of such undue influence, a tendency to see mr putin and his agents behind every corner and under every stone. this is a way of de-legitimising democratic elections and the choices people make. i can assure you there are a lot of people out there who genuinely do not want more third—world immigration, more globalisation or more european union. this is the reason why they vote for brexit, trump or nationalist parties. such developments may, of course, coincide with the interests of certain external actors, but they are caused by the failure and incompetence of the set mainstream.
in writing. citizens' trust in the political system has been shaken. this is indicated by the fact that in many countries voter turnout remains low. this is particularly true of the european parliament elections, where turnout is often below 40%. this is a problem we must find solutions to. in the elections, the capital districts and various lobbying organisations seek to elect their own candidates to key positions of trust in the parliament, the government and the european parliament. the aim, of course, is that the elected representatives sponsored by the electoral fund will promote the interests of their sponsors in particular. election campaigns in general are often too simplistic and over-the-top, even misleading and smearing political opponents, further confusing unsure voters. the increasing prevalence of disinformation both online and in the traditional media is one of the greatest challenges to the realisation of european democracy. the more disinformation is spread through social media, fake news, fake newsletters, and fake videos, the less people believe in the reliability of any information they receive. each editor-in-chief and publishing director should understand this and take responsibility for publishing only the facts. the reader, the listener and the viewer must be able to distinguish easily between fact and fiction. the mere glance at turnover should not be the main focus of any publishing activity. it is important to emphasise the importance of high-quality editorial work and the strengthening of the position of journalists and independent media. the citizens must have access to reliable and high-quality information if democracy is to be realised. i welcome the commission's proposals to ensure free and fair elections, such as increasing the transparency of online political advertising and its targeting, as well as tightening the rules on the financing of european political parties.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, many people on both sides of sides of the atlantic have spent the past two years complaining how unattractive the us has become because of the trump administration. it is a little difficult to take this seriously when we consider the number of people who are trying so hard to get there from central america and other places. the big question here is: what is a civilised country supposed to do when it is invaded by a large number of unarmed civilians? can it be that it is not supposed to do anything? this is a very acute question in europe as well. instead of just condemning everything mr trump does, or plans to do, we should work to find an acceptable but efficient way of stopping illegal migrants from entering freely a country that does not want to have them.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, an ageing europe needs rules of the game that are ill-functioning. the number of children born is decreasing, and the level of child support is becoming very low. in many european member states, there are more and more elderly people and care services would require more labour in both family care and public services. it requires us to take action and to ensure that the most vulnerable europeans are treated and cared for. i don't think equality, justice and equity are off limits to anyone in this world. they are values that we all have to work for.
in writing. it is essential that quality services for the care of children, the elderly and the disabled are available throughout the union. again, the responsibility for caring for loved ones is more common among women than men. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to provide the necessary information to the commission and the member states. health care services touch our fellow men, so it is clear that they must be of high quality and affordable to the average person. we still have to talk about balancing work and family life. although attitudes have changed, there is still work to be done to ensure that the responsibility for caring for the home and the family is shared equitably. i hope that we can make progress on these matters, where quality care services play a key role.
the author. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for the opportunity to put this oral question to the commission on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety on lyme disease. there are no factual data on the incidence of lyme disease. the prevalence figures are based on conjecture and vary very widely depending on the source. in many countries, lyme disease is still not reported in any statistics, and this has a major impact on the seriousness of lyme disease and, for example, on the allocation of research funds. there is a great deal of disagreement about the treatment of lyme disease. borrelia is primarily treated with antibiotics. it is generally agreed that the best treatment outcomes are obtained when treatment is started early. however, there are differing views on the dosage, duration of treatment, and treatment of chronic lyme disease. symptoms in people with lyme disease are highly individual and some people have severe secondary infections. there can be a number of problems with antibody tests, such as antibody production not having yet started because of too short a time between infections or because of antibodies being bound to immune complexes. unfortunately, research on lyme disease and related secondary infections is currently inadequate. the effectiveness of different treatments should be investigated more widely very quickly. the coronation of lyme disease is also an important area of research. unfortunately, patients whose symptoms persist after long courses of antibiotics often go without rehabilitation and treatment. and their fitness and ability to work are often lost for a long time, even permanently. some progress has already been made, with lyme neuroborreliosis being added to the list of communicable diseases under epidemiological surveillance, but more efforts are needed to combat borreliosis and to raise awareness of borreliosis. the member states must be able to harmonise and improve their treatment practices and, above all, to make it more effective and improve access to treatment for patients, for clients. and we need to be more precise in diagnostics, and hopefully one day we'll have a vaccine for lyme disease. in view of the problems and challenges we have set out, we would like to ask the commission for its answers, solutions, plans for the future and for any ideas it may have on this matter. unfortunately, the number of bedbugs is growing very rapidly in europe and their geographical distribution is constantly expanding. this is thought to be due to the cooling of the climate brought about by climate change. frigid winters are also a rarity in northern europe, and this is particularly beneficial for ticks and their hosts. so the future does not look any better in this respect, quite the contrary. the number of cases of lyme disease is expected to continue to increase. that is why we hope that rapid and active action will be taken to remedy this situation. finally, i would like to thank my colleagues in the committee on the environment and in parliament as a whole for the very good cooperation and strong support. i would like to thank both the lyme borrelia international association and the national associations for their work to improve the situation of people with borrelia, and i would particularly like to thank our irish colleague, liadh ní riada, who has been courageously raising this issue for many years. fortunately, we now have the whole team of the committee on the environment working on this. thank you for that. we'll work together.
mr president, you, mr prime minister, said that we should listen to the people. we certainly do that every day as members of the european parliament. you also said we should report on our achievements. that's what we do. but i do not think that the achievements of the past will ever win any more support, but we must be able to find solutions to the pressing issues of today and we must have some idea of the future. one of these issues is immigration. we have discussed this today, but i regret to say that denmark is not suitable for this because of your lack of humanism. you have pragmatism, but you don't have much humanism. but i believe that what you said in your speech, in putting africa at the centre, is the core issue. africa is indeed a question of destiny for the european union. we must really think together about all the ways in which we can help africa and see it as a partner and not just a recipient of development aid. that's what we need.
in writing. in recent years, the european parliament has held several debates on billion-dollar tax evasion and money laundering cases. this autumn, the danish danske bank money laundering scandal has been on the table. the estonian branch of the danish bank laundered money worth up to 200 billion euros. the first hint of criminal activity came from the central bank of russia as early as 2007, but the activity was allowed to continue for years. no one was willing to intervene in criminal activity and the money laundering controls were a total failure. the british whistleblower, howard wilkinson, was questioned in late november by the parliament's special committee on tax fraud, tax evasion and tax avoidance, tax3. the evidence presented by mr wilkinson shows that the danish financial supervisory authority has deliberately turned a blind eye to the problems and even felt obliged to help its home bank in its difficult situation. the task of the supervisory authority is certainly not to help its home bank but to supervise it. if the information provided by wilkinson is correct, the fsa's actions appear to be incompetent, if not corrupt. the fight against money laundering, the activities of the authorities and the exchange of information between countries should be strengthened. i hope that prime minister rasmussen and his colleagues will do everything possible to ensure that this does not happen again in any eu country. when crimes are detected in the banking world, it is the duty of the supervisory authorities in particular to act immediately.
for the alde group mr president, as is well known, the wto is in many ways in a bind. the wto has been crippled by the fact that its most important organ - the dispute settlement mechanism - has become inoperative. this weakened system breaks the rules of global trade, weakens the opportunities of european companies, and the predictability and regularity of trade are not guaranteed, and this must be changed. maintaining an open, rules-based and non-discriminatory trading system is a vital condition for european companies that depend on exports for their livelihood. the wto is an important player in solving many global issues, such as food security. it also provides an opportunity to contribute to the achievement of climate objectives on a global scale, where solutions must be found on a global scale. if we want to preserve a common organization for the rules of the game of world trade, we must change the rules. the commission's initiative to reform the trade organization is absolutely essential. the eu must act as a defender of trade in this debate and find like-minded wto members with whom to develop reforms.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 29 november 2018. written declarations (article 162) the president of the court of justice shall be entitled to give a reasoned opinion.
the next item is the report of mr knut fleckenstein on the 2018 report on albania (2018/2147(ini) a8-0334/2018.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 29 november 2018.
the next item is the report by mr tannock on montenegro (2018/2144 ((ini)) a8-0339/2018.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 29 november 2018.
the next item is the report by mr wajid khan on the defence of academic freedom in the eu's external action (2018/2117 ((ini)) a8-0403/2018.
this conversation is over. the vote will be held on thursday 29 november 2018.
the agenda will then be followed by a minute's speaking time on a matter of political importance, in accordance with rule 163.
the case is closed.
in writing. it is regrettable that the 2016 brexit vote was based mainly on incomplete and false information and on completely unfunded promises that the uk government is virtually incapable of delivering. the uk's impending departure from the eu is a great tragedy that could still be avoided. the negotiated withdrawal agreement itself meets the minimum conditions set by the european parliament. the withdrawal agreement safeguards the rights of eu citizens living in the uk, strengthens the uk's future payment obligations to the eu and avoids a hard border between ireland and northern ireland. yet it is clear that both britain and the eu will suffer from brexit. the main objective of this agreement is to reduce the damage caused by the separation. it is also clear that britain cannot get any better benefits outside the eu than the member countries. the initial outlines suggest that the uk would still like to be involved in almost all eu activities. this raises the question of why britain wants to leave in the first place. the second best option is the withdrawal agreement now being negotiated, with transitional periods. the best solution would be for britain to decide to withdraw its divorce. it would still be entirely possible. it would be right and reasonable for the british people to at least have the opportunity to vote again on the withdrawal now that we know what the withdrawal means in practice. this, of course, is now entirely in british hands.
in writing. the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities aims to guarantee to persons with disabilities full and equal enjoyment of all human rights and fundamental freedoms and to promote respect for their human dignity. the rights of people with disabilities do not come about by themselves; they require not only action by decision-makers but also participation and active dialogue. the accessibility directive aims to ensure that everyone has equal opportunities in society, including in the digital world. we all have the right to the basic services we need. it's important to recognize the different needs of individuals, different people. it is also important to recognize the different needs of women and men. to achieve equality, the conditions must be right. it is essential, for example, to extend non-discrimination beyond the workplace by adopting the directive on equal treatment, which is still pending in the member states. the principles of gender equality and equal opportunities for women and men set out in the european pillar of social rights need to be put into practice.
mr president, the eu member states have lost at least eur 55 billion as a result of cum ex-competition. this tax scandal also came to light thanks to the work of investigative journalists. once again, the authorities have been sitting on information and it has not been passed on as desired between member states. the cum ex scandal also provides a good example of the problematic nature of the revolving door phenomenon. hanno berger, a tax lawyer and former head of the frankfurt tax office, was hired by the banking world to develop complex dividend-fixing schemes. in berger's view, even aggressive dividend laundering has been legal. it is difficult to see how, for example, schemes whereby several persons apply for the same tax refund even though the tax has not been paid even once, could have been legal in some countries. the scandal shows that there is still a lot to be done in the fight against tax evasion and aggressive tax planning. that is why it was easy to vote in favour of the resolution.
draft opinion of the committee on budgets. mr president, concern about the climate and our environment has been on everyone's lips since the international panel on climate change published its report at the latest. clearly, more needs to be done. we have also seen recently that adaptation and reducing emissions is not without problems. we have to change our lifestyle, but it's very difficult. combating climate change is a cross-border effort. not just at eu level, but globally. it is therefore natural and absolutely necessary that responsibility be shared by the larger shoulders. climate and environment work is a core area of eu activity and the life programme is the only eu funding programme dedicated entirely to this work. i am pleased, mr president, that parliament has already expressed its strong support on several occasions for the continuation and strengthening of the life programme and has called for additional funds for this. however, it must be admitted that the financial resources available to the eu cannot solve the problems facing our environment, as the commissioner has just said. it is therefore important that we use scarce resources wisely. the life programme has sought to ensure that even small investments can have a large multiplier effect. this is something we must continue to strive for. finally, mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr gerbrand, for his very good cooperation and all the shadow rapporteurs on the committee on budgets.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the gue/ngl group, i would like to thank all those who have worked on this important issue for the good work they have done. the life programme needs a wide range of measures and funding from all the other activities and policies in our lives to support it. climate change, environmental problems and the loss of biodiversity are not a matter of visas or national borders, and therefore cooperation and action across all borders is of enormous importance. we have also seen the importance of the disparities between people and regions in this matter. it challenges us every day and i hope that parliament, the council and the commission will take seriously the challenge of being able to make decisions which are also socially and regionally just. dialogue is needed with both member states and citizens to respond peacefully to the greatest challenge of our time.
mr president, life is actually the only financial instrument under the eu budget that is wholly dedicated to the environment, nature conservation and climate change, over and above national expenditure. while i would like to thank the team of rapporteurs for their good work, i would like to emphasise three things. firstly, it is extremely important to increase life funding. it is extremely important to use it as leverage for cohesion funds, especially for the circular economy at member state level. and last but not least it is extremely important to emphasise the biodiversity aspect. we have very good experience with using the life programmes for biodiversity and now, especially, when there has been a more than 60% decline between 1970 and 2014 in birds, fishes, mammals, amphibians and reptiles, we urgently need to increase life funding and try to leverage member states’ funding in these areas, and that also extends to large carnivores all over europe. thank you for the good work and hopefully the commission can support and direct life funding for biodiversity.
mr president, people have a right to a safe and healthy working environment. i would like to thank the commissioner and the rapporteur in particular for the unrelenting, determined and also courageous work they have done to reduce carcinogens in the workplace. the inclusion of diesel gases in this list has also been a very positive step in my view. the well-being, health and lives of the 100,000 people who work in the workplace every year are not a small matter. but this is a never-ending battle ahead, partly because of new chemical compounds and interactions that we do not yet know about. i would therefore warmly support the rapporteur's proposal that the new commission should start preparing the revision of this legislation and that it should be a general practice to review the legislation, for example every five years, so that we can keep abreast of developments and prevent new dangerous compounds in the workplace and, through new information, also eliminate old ones whose risks are known.
i thank the commission for its frankness in this proposal. it is the least the commission can do after the glyphosate scandal has allowed, on the basis of nonpublic information, the continued use of a pesticide for which there is growing scientific evidence of cancer and other health risks, including from outside the world health organisation. it is essential that we achieve transparency like this in the scientific approval process in the area of food safety. at the same time, it is also essential to safeguard the innovation capacity and global competitiveness of the european food industry. but not at the expense of people's health. it is very difficult for me to see any innovation being threatened here. the commission's proposal is particularly striking in that it is more than adequate and very clearly written out in the so-called backstop on innovation and trade secrets. i do not see the commission's proposal as threatening the european food industry or agriculture in any way, even if it is in terms of innovation.
in writing. digitalisation is changing the world at a rapid pace. it affects jobs, for example, by reducing them in some sectors but creating them in others. we need more and more knowledge and skills to use technology, and many everyday tasks require adequate it skills. lifelong learning has an important role to play in sustaining digital skills. it is not enough to teach skills only in schools, but opportunities for digital adoption must be provided for everyone, regardless of age and occupation. and libraries can play a big role in this.
madam president, i would like to thank you. when we look at the outcome of the eurogroup meeting, there are a number of different issues we could raise. but since my time is somewhat limited, i will also limit the subject i was going to talk about. perhaps the most serious problem we have is money laundering. that problem manifests itself in quite different ways. when we look at the way in which the member states are currently implementing the fourth money laundering directive, we are faced with what could almost be called a disaster. 21 out of 28 countries have failed to implement this legislation in time and at the same time we see in country after country, in bank after bank, that the system is leaking, that we are getting more and more news that the banks have de facto been complicit in money laundering. we need a plan of action. the eurogroup must be allowed to get its act together on this point, so to speak, and we must be able to solve this problem. the eba is perhaps the most important instrument.
mr president, uncontrolled immigration has led to many problems. the threat of terrorism has become a reality in all eu countries. in finland, this was experienced when a person who came to the country as an asylum seeker stabbed ten people in turku in august 2017 with a jihadist purpose. two of the victims were killed. the eu's external borders need to be more effectively secured and people need to be able to be checked against their background in order to prevent dangerous people from entering the union. the challenges facing those who have left member states to fight for terrorist organisations and are now returning to europe are particular. cooperation and exchange of information between member states must be further enhanced in order to prevent, detect and investigate terrorist offences. for example, the spread of terrorist material on the internet must be prevented by removing it as quickly as possible. likewise, the activity of hate preachers must be brought to a halt.
sorry, it's not the custom here, and it's not allowed to show any kind of applause from that balcony. i'm asking you to listen to me. (the president declared the common position approved as amended)
this conversation is over. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 12 december 2018. written declarations (rule 162)
the following joint debate is scheduled: on the recommendation of mr pedro silva pereira, drawn up on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the eu-japan economic partnership agreement (07964/2018 - c8-0382/2018 - 2018/0091 ((nle)) (a8-0366/2018), on the report of mr pedro silva pereira, on behalf of the committee on international trade, on the eu-japan economic partnership agreement (resolution) (2018/0091m(nle)) (a8-0367/2018), having regard to the recommendation of mr alojz peterle, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu-japan strategic partnership agreement (08462/2018 - c8-0417/2018 - 2018/0122 ((nle)) (a8-0383/2018), on the report of mr alojz peterle, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the eu-japan strategic partnership agreement (resolution) (2018/0122m(nle)) (a8-0385/2018); and commission declaration on the adequacy of the protection of personal data provided by japan (2018/2979 ((rsp)).
i wonder where all this applause came from. i didn't notice, but at least here on that balcony, they don't allow applause or any other sounds or gestures.
the rapporteur. mr president, this report on the connecting europe facility is indeed a joint report by the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on transport and tourism. i would like to warmly thank my co-rapporteurs, mr marinescu and mr telica, and all the shadow rapporteurs for their good cooperation. the connecting europe facility is one of the major programmes of the coming period, which aims primarily at investing in european infrastructure in the fields of energy, digitalisation and transport. we know that if we want to boost europe's growth and competitiveness and ensure that we have new businesses and jobs, it is absolutely essential that we have modern infrastructure in good condition and that the links between member states also work. the fight against climate change will be a particular focus of the coming period. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of projects in the area of energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. in the energy sector, we have already identified the most important european links for which this funding will be used: these are the networks of interconnection, the crossborder links, which are essential for europe, and that list will of course be updated in the coming years. the emphasis during this period has been rather strongly on gas infrastructure, that is to say, on the fact that we have built gas pipelines throughout europe. we have thus increased the efficiency of our own gas market. but naturally now that the big gas projects are starting to be completed, in the coming period from 2021 when this programme comes into force, the focus will be even more on the electricity transmission grids. this is also necessary because the amount of renewable energy is constantly increasing in europe and because transmission and cross-border transmission links play a very important role. as a new element of this programme, it will also be possible to finance joint renewable energy projects in the member states. the commission proposed that up to 10% of the programme could be devoted to this, but in the european parliament we raised that to 15%. renewable energy is an important area where investment is needed. the digital part of this programme will be slightly smaller than the current programme, precisely because we now have a completely new digital europe programme which is funding these other projects, and this digital part will be specifically focused on infrastructure projects. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the transport of dangerous goods by road. the possibility of financing submarine cable connections through this fund and the connecting europe facility is also important. i am sure that my colleagues will be talking more about transport projects in the future, but our aim of moving people, goods and services across borders in europe naturally requires that we have very good crossborder transport links, and this is precisely what this programme will be focusing on in the next period. we must also learn from what we have not done so well this season, and that has certainly been to look for synergies. in the future, we must also find more synergies between transport, energy and digital projects. this is the role which parliament wishes to stress in particular in future. this includes, for example, the infrastructure for the distribution of alternative fuels along transport routes or smart grids for energy. so there is an increased need for synergies between digitalisation, energy and transport, which will give us a very modern and modern infrastructure for europe.
mr president, it is a good decision to continue our democratic work together for a better europe, despite this violent event that we all condemn in strasbourg city. i think that the money we are now seeking to invest is really improving the lives of citizens, it’s improving europe and it is money that we need to invest in modern infrastructure – investing for the future, not for the past. what we need is digital infrastructure as well. digital infrastructure means connecting europeans and i will be happy if parliament can include our proposal to add 5g, not only along the roads, as the commission proposed, but also digital investment in 5g for so—called social hubs, schools, universities and hospitals around our continent. also this week, we hope to receive news from katowice about the climate agreements at global level. and what can we do? i travel there tomorrow as part of the european parliament delegation, and i want to take with me the message from this house that we will support infrastructure for the next century and for clean energy solutions. we need interconnections for electricity and we also need to invest in renewables. we no longer need much for gas in the next century, so i really hope that we can improve the safety of the infrastructure networks, and also that we can really concentrate on, and invest our money in, renewables and then in electricity, in order to save our climate.
the rapporteur. mr president, at the beginning of the debate, mr tajani specifically said that we had decided to continue the sitting and work as usual. i think it's the right thing to do, too. it is important that the authorities and the police do their job now, and certainly our thoughts and sympathy are with the victims and their families, but at the same time it is important that we continue our own democratic work to build a better europe. i would like to thank all the colleagues and the commissioner for the good points of view and speeches made during the sitting. indeed, this cef programme will play a very central role in the coming years as we work towards building a common digital single market for europe and towards building a common energy union. both require that we have very good and functional links in order to achieve an efficient internal market. of course, transport too, which was also the subject of the views of the rapporteurs themselves. the role of the cohesion funds has been the subject of considerable attention here. it's a very large and significant pot, 10 billion euros. the commission proposes that cohesion funds be transferred to this networked europe instrument, and as commissioner bulc has said, this is also very good for the cohesion countries, as they have the opportunity to get a higher contribution to projects through this. i personally think that this commission proposal is very good, as is the fact that 30% of this money is to be competitive between the cohesion countries, because it would allow us to really build major major european transport projects and ensure that taxpayers' money is used as efficiently as possible. we shall be voting on this tomorrow and i hope that we will get the mandate from parliament to move towards negotiations. it is very important that we do not have any delays in these major projects, but that we can adopt this programme and plan and implement it in a fast way, because all delays in major projects cost money.
the committee on transport and tourism has adopted an opinion. mr president, as negotiator for the committee on transport and tourism, i would like to warmly thank the rapporteurs for a very good and balanced presentation. the most important thing is that parliament is very much in favour of increasing the budget for horizon europe by 50% compared with the current budget of eur 120 billion. i think that is the most important thing for all of us in this future programme, because we know that the biggest problem with the current programme is that about half of the very high quality applications have not been funded because of the high number of applications and the inadequate funding. i really hope that parliament will be able to achieve this very ambitious target, so that we can increase the amount of funding, because we know that there is demand and there is need, and on the other hand we have already made a policy in europe years ago that 3% of gross domestic product should be spent on research and development in europe. we are far from that goal, so it is important that we increase funding now so that our industry can be competitive in the future and so that we can respond to the great global challenges, of which climate change is one of the most acute at the moment.
the committee on agriculture has drawn up an opinion. mr president, food security in the eu and in the world really needs a european horizon. we need to support research and innovation to remain competitive. as rapporteur for the committee on agriculture, i would like to stress the importance of the food and natural resources cluster. it is great that parliament now includes the word agriculture in its position, because sustainable food systems do not exist without a direct link to agriculture. the 10 billion euro investment is absolutely essential because we also have to take care of the sustainability of our food system. under no circumstances should this funding be cut. the current system is not enough to feed the world's growing population, and as climate change continues, we are facing new challenges that now require innovation and research to solve. agriculture is a sector that offers many answers and solutions to these problems. the programme only needs to ensure that high-quality research output is also taken to the practical level.
in writing. according to a study by transparency international and global witness, eu countries have sold 6,000 passports and almost 100,000 residence permits over the past ten years. cyprus is one of the countries offering the so-called 'golden visas'. the practice offered by cyprus is one of the most lax in the eu. in the country, two million euros can only be redeemed after a six-month wait. after that, you are free to travel, work or do business in the eu as you wish. golden visa schemes are highly vulnerable to risks such as money laundering and security threats, if applicants' backgrounds and the origin of their wealth are not thoroughly investigated. it is not right for other eu countries that cyprus, by selling passports and residence permits, receives the money but shares the risks of the system with all the other member states.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we are discussing here today a serious issue. the commission is in communication with one of the member states, examining a potential conflict of interests which involves the prime minister and concerns the use of eu structural funds. i do believe that in such a situation it is critically important that we carefully look at the facts at hand. the commission’s legal analysis concludes that the prime minister, mr andrej babiš, is in a situation which occurred and may objectively be perceived as a conflict of interests. this is based on the financial regulation that applies since august this year. commissioner oettinger, when questioned by the committee on budgetary control, made it clear that it is now up to the czech authorities to address the situation, based on written guidance from the commission. from the perspective of my group, it is important that solutions are swiftly found and systemic measures taken so that the situation is brought fully into line with eu legislation. we have a first written reply from the czech government that signals that the authorities, and the prime minister personally, are aware of the gravity of the situation and conducting an analysis. this analysis should obviously be followed by the necessary steps to solve the situation. it is now up to the czech authorities to do so and to take measures to remove all concerns and doubts. to my epp and green colleagues, i would like to ask you not to fall too quickly into the trap of painting all the european countries with the same brush. we obviously need to have all facts on the table and take actions based on that. do not jump straight to conclusions where we put an equal sign between systematic undermining of the judiciary as in poland and hungary and what we are seeing in the czech republic at the moment. by jumping too quickly to conclusions, you risk both diverting attention away from the real issue and in the long run do the european project a great disservice. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – you have probably also read the letter prime minister babis sent. in this letter, he clearly states that he is aware of the situation and therefore he is part of the czech authorities. so, with a calm approach to the problem, i think we could actually find a solution which is not a double standard solution as we have seen in some of the other cases.
mr president, the more power there is, the more responsibility there should be. we politicians should always remember that the people are our employers and payers, not the lobbyists of big business and banks. i have been amazed to see how much talk is made about transparency in decision-making in the european parliament and in national parliaments too, but in practice it seems that there is no desire to promote transparency. one concrete example is the transparency register, which is struggling to be reformed. if citizens' confidence in political decision-making is to be increased, advocacy needs to be more transparent. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. it was also astonishing to see in the spring of this year how the commission cannot manage its own appointment policy without scandals. i now turn to the appointment of mr selmayr as secretary-general of the commission. i'm glad that this term has been studied more. the most important thing for european taxpayers is always to select the best candidate for every post, without discrimination or favouritism. the ombudsman's annual report 2017 also gives a good account of the publication of commissioners' meetings and of the briefings. the report is good on the whole and i hope that the shortcomings it identifies will lead to concrete action.
author. – mr president, we are talking here about nasrin sotoudeh and notably the case of her persecution. she’s a brave human rights lawyer and she has been detained and convicted because of her work defending human rights in iran. notably, she was defending the rights of women not to be obliged to wear the veil. i believe that iran cannot have a bright future without the empowerment of women, and that’s what so many women activists are now trying to do in iran, to show that the women are an important force in the country. so what we are calling for is an immediate and unconditional release of nasrin sotoudeh. nasrin sotoudeh is also the 2012 sakharov prize winner, so we have a special duty to follow her life and her work, and whenever sakharov prize winners are under persecution, we react. we use diplomatic channels but it’s time also now to express our view and our concern, and our demand in public here in the european parliament today. we demand also that the delegation in iran representing the european union and its member states follow her case, visit the prison and convey our demand to release her immediately and unconditionally. also this resolution is very much about the recent concerns about the living conditions of people in iran. we want to express our solidarity for those who suffer from drought and worsening living conditions, and i think it’s our right to express our solidarity to these people. finally, we should be aware of the damaging impact of the united states’ sanctions on the people of iran.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commission to start with, because it has been really active and very good and efficient in its work on rare diseases. in some way, in rare diseases, europe has things in place because rare diseases are in fact not rare – there are about 8 000 to 10 000 rare diseases and almost 10% of europeans have some sort of rare disease. they are only rare in the cases, and only rare in the cities, and only rare in the member states that do not have the capacity or possibilities to have all the knowledge, the cure facilities, or for that matter, the required medication. that is why we need europe—wide cooperation that should serve as an example for other diseases. i think that in the longer term we should have the same type of reference centre networks for other diseases as we have at the moment for rare diseases. as you mentioned, timely diagnosis using the cross—border healthcare initiative and ehealth network are good examples where europe can help. i hope that we can channel a bit more horizon funding in the future into rare disease networks and reference centres. for example into how ‘dr watsons’ can be further developed, so that we would have artificial intelligence helping doctors diagnose rare diseases. that could be used by general practitioners already so they can identify and pick up and issue guidance for the further treatment of people with such conditions. last but not least is the question concerning orphan medicines. these are extremely expensive and it is a negative lottery for local health centres, but then again at european level the cost is not so much, so i think that we should establish a european fund to buy orphan medicines for rare diseases.
