for the gue/ngl group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, our group is asking for the vote on the report by mr gabriel mato to be postponed. there are many reasons for postponing this vote, but i will mention only one: a few days ago, the press and ngos revealed that the european commission had not taken into account the conclusions of an expert report which it had itself requested, a report which concluded that electric fishing was dangerous. the european commission used this report to get him to say the exact opposite of what he said and to allow derogations from the ban on this barbaric fishing method. would the european commission have deliberately lied to the members of the european parliament? that's the question. and that is the question we have to ask him before we can make a calm, informed decision on a much awaited report which our european parliament is very much looking forward to, and that is why i ask you to vote in favour of this postponement of the vote.
i'm the reporter. mr president, what is going to happen in this vote is very important, because it is really a coherence between the commitment of the european union and the member states to the paris agreement and our legislation, and that is why we need ambition and consistency. a european framework law on climate and energy was therefore needed. so these are important goals, and we've set these goals with a vision, i would say, for 2050. the concept of a carbon budget was introduced, i.e. what can still be emitted into the atmosphere to comply with the paris agreement and see afterwards what remains on the contribution of the european union. if the european union is to become a net-zero carbon economy by 2050 at the latest, it has two major levers, energy efficiency and renewable energy, and i agree with my co-rapporteurs that the commission is not ambitious enough, nor are the member states, for that matter, to be consistent with the paris agreement. similarly, what was interesting - and i hope my colleagues will support it - was that the fact that the commission is developing a comprehensive strategy for methane was introduced, because it has a very high global warming potential and, for example, over five years, one tonne of methane does as much damage as 101 tonnes of co2, so it is very important to include it. now, on the method: how can we put these goals into music by first developing integrated national energy and climate plans for 2030 every five years, with a perspective every ten years? we know that some states are quite hostile to it, but it is very important to encourage it. the same is true of transparency. we need to develop a permanent platform for dialogue to involve the different strata of society, because without the involvement of partners, communities or civil society, we will not succeed. given that the targets are set by sectoral legislation, whether it is the renewable energy directive, energy efficiency, or buildings, the governance report refers to linear trajectories for the deployment of renewable energy and energy efficiency over the next ten years, and when you look at that, it's a plus for everything. this is a plus for investment security, job creation and to address energy poverty. this can only be done, however, if the objectives are binding, and it is precisely in this case that we see that the member states are not in favour of them. it is therefore important that meps support this european policy so that these objectives can be achieved. and if the european union or a member state deviates from its trajectory, there needs to be a recovery mechanism in place, a kind of toolbox for achieving these objectives. i am counting on my colleagues, because we cannot say that the european union is a bit of a leader in climate action and then fall short of the paris agreement's objectives in terms of legislation. so there is a very strong european issue in the votes that will take place tomorrow.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament is calling for a ban on the use of palm oil from 2020. it's about time! it's about time. it is essential to stop deforestation because, i remind you, 50 per cent of this palm oil is burned in europe by our trucks and cars in the form of what is called biodiesel. the report nevertheless introduces a too low target for renewable energy in transport. he says 12 percent. i ask that it be binding and free of first generation agrofuels. this is a minimum, at a time when europe must take the lead in the renewable energy economy at the global level. another aspect, we know that there will be more electric transport by 2030, and that's a good thing overall, but there are also non-clean electricity, like nuclear. this report is so unambitious that it opens the door to the nuclear car, which no one knows how to recycle. mr cañete, you are going in the right direction, but the final message is that 21st century mobility requires political courage and, above all, real renewable energy.
mr president, this governance will require member states to present national energy and climate plans and it attempts to establish the commission as the energy leader by allowing it to judge the policies and energy mix of states, to the detriment of national interests. failure to comply with the recommendations of this technocratic and illegitimate power would expose the states to sanctions. this text is a serious attack on national sovereignty and sets the first milestones for the federalisation of the energy market, despite its strategic nature. finally, this legislation will be binding on renewable energies, whereas legislation should be introduced to promote decarbonised energy, limit pollution, but include nuclear energy - this was the commission's proposal before the rapporteur's damaging amendments. i shall end by mentioning the other two texts of the energy package. we must strengthen energy efficiency and alternative sources of energy, but we reject the development of intermittent energy sources at the speed of light and the commission's constant desire to extend its powers. finally, you are legislating on the need to make european industry cleaner, but you refuse to take measures on imported products, thus imposing a double penalty on our industry and our jobs.
mr president, commissioner, i agree with the wish to take account of the emission of methane, a greenhouse gas much more potent than co2. however, the 'all renewable' target for 2050 raises the question of the sustainability of structures such as wind farms, whose energy cost is very high and whose components are not sustainable. this source of energy is intermittent, blurs electromagnetic waves and can kill many protected birds. at sea, the winds scare away fish, threatening coastal fishermen. marine corrosion makes it unstable and extremely expensive to maintain. as for photovoltaic plants, their components are not environmentally friendly and the impact on the price of energy is considerable. the threat of the us withdrawal from the paris agreement also requires us to be clear-headed. action in the framework of the major international organisations will remain more effective than the european union alone.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report is unanimous. we must build an energy europe that guarantees our independence and enables us to be competitive in the global arena. we must meet the energy and climate targets set by the paris agreement. the balance achieved on these texts, which is the basis for negotiations with the council, masks the differences in approach between the groups. we are not bosses or dictators, but rather we encourage. that's our vision of governance. member states, businesses and citizens must be supported so that they can reduce their energy consumption; we need to develop more energy-efficient and sustainable sources, products and buildings. the market must be able to ensure medium and long-term investment through clear and stable policies. this was not the case for first-generation biofuels. so we depend on protein imports from other parts of the world. so to ensure our independence from gm proteins and limit deforestation, we need to develop protein crops in europe, the co-products of which are oils that can be used as biofuels. this is an illustration of what the circular economy is.
mr president, 'to your good will, ladies and gentlemen' is the title some might like to give to the energy package. nothing would be imposed; the states, and therefore the companies, would do what they could, or rather what they wanted to, but what would their choice be if they were left to do so? finance or the planet, the carbon market or cleaner air? it is clear that our interests are not the same, some have a short-term vision and we must look beyond tomorrow. but if we talk about finance, let us remember that the energy bill of the european union is 400 billion euros a year, of which 160 billion is only for heating public buildings and, of course, it is fossil energy, so imported. so we have no choice but to impose a paradigm shift to gain energy autonomy, to lower the bill of the most precarious families and, yes, above all, to save the planet. the text voted in the itre committee last december addresses these major issues. energy efficiency will make us more competitive, renewables less dependent and more in line with the paris agreement, and so i hope that we will remain consistent with what we voted in december in the interests of all.
mr president, (start of the speech outside the microphone) ... which underpins the energy union is worthy of the soviet union, and the energy union should be abandoned in its entirety. not only is the european union forcing states to change their energy policies, but energy is also harmful to all eu citizens. the most tragic aspect of this energy union is the so-called security of supply, which seeks to cut off the european union countries from cheap supplies from our european neighbour, russia, under the pretext of escaping a fantasy geostrategic threat. the economic and ecological absurdity of your policy is that european countries are being pushed to buy liquefied natural gas from the united states and qatar, that is, from the other side of the planet and at a higher cost to consumers. is this your globalism? creating more carbon footprints with supertankers? so what's the point of making the paris climate accords? but the european union is not far from being incoherent, provided that private lobbies enrich themselves at the expense of europeans.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank all the honourable members who have participated in this debate: more than 80 have intervened in this debate. i am pleased to see that members have acknowledged the importance of these three issues in enabling europe to drive the clean energy transition. i also reiterate that the three dossiers are strongly inter-linked and that parliament must remain coherent in its approach, and that the rules that we agree must be ambitious and workable in practice. on governance, i was surprised that some honourable members expressed the view that the governance initiative will undermine the member states’ right to choose their energy mix. the opposite is true. the basic rationale of the initiative is to fully respect the principle of subsidiarity and the balance between the european union and member states in the area of energy. this is reflected in the approach, which is through national plans set out at national level rather than plans being imposed at european union level. that is why the governance proposal is such an important proposal. some of you have also questioned, or raised doubts, on whether this proposal will be strong enough to ensure that the 2030 targets are met. my initial reaction is that the commission proposal was established in order to achieve those targets, but parliament has improved the proposal and these gains are to its credit. parliament has analysed the proposal, has considered the weaknesses it may have, and has reinforced it accordingly. i think that jointly, with the basic proposal of the commission and the improvements that parliament has introduced, we have a very important tool to make sure that the targets that we establish are achieved. because the overall majority has been in favour of more ambitious targets than those proposed by the commission we are at a very good starting position for the trilogues that are going to be extremely complex. without our good-governance proposal, all the rest is meaningless. today i want to thank the rapporteurs for their efforts. they have done excellent work. it is a very difficult exercise, and on wednesday we will have difficult votes, but lots of work is now behind us, and the commission wants to give thanks for all the effort made. coming back to renewables, let me say that overall the compromise text that is emerging in parliament also represents a very good negotiating position for parliament in view of the trilogues. mr blanco lópez has done excellent work, as has mr turmes and, certainly, ms rivasi. i see broad support for a high overall level of ambition for renewables deployment in europe, including the importance of europeanising renewables policy and strengthening investor certainty in this context. the regulatory framework that you are putting in place should enable greater cost-effectiveness and the sustained deployment of renewables in our electricity sector, in buildings and in the transport sector. on energy efficiency, i want to reiterate again the importance of maintaining a high level of ambition for article 7 to enable economically viable energy savings to be made over the next decade. how can we say that we want to do more to encourage energy efficiency if, at the same time, we undermine the best instrument we have, which is article 7. so there is a contradiction sometimes, and we have to solve that. i expect that wednesday’s vote will solve these contradictions. the debate on energy efficiency also showed strong support for a high level of ambition for energy efficiency and a strong article 7. that’s very positive. if you see what happened in the october 2014 council, when energy efficiency was proposed at a level of 27, the commission acknowledged that this was not enough and then proposed a binding level of 30. now you are proposing higher levels, and the trilogues will be complicated and the commission will act as honest broker to get the best final energy-efficiency proposal. there have been some more comments, particularly professor gierek, who consistently drew attention to the need for a life-cycle method to calculate energy use. i agree that this is relevant both for policy analysis and for policies like ecodesign that look at particular products. but if we apply it to the whole energy system it will cause problems such as double counting of energy use, so the commission prefers to keep the eurostat method for calculating energy efficiency. just a final comment to mr jávor. it is true that the media has said that there is a draft procedural report, but the final report is going to be released in october 2018. the final ipcc report is a very important input to the talanoa dialogue and for the preparations in the run-up to cop24 in katowice. but the commission will wait to see the final report to take the appropriate conclusions once the report is fully approved. i will just finalise by thanking all of the house for supporting these three pieces of legislation which are central to setting the new regulatory framework for the clean energy transition and for delivering our paris agreement commitments. this week’s votes will finalise parliament’s position on these issues and will be an important point of reference that will establish the pathways to a final agreement with the council. in the climate package with the emissions trading system, land use change and forestry we have been able to secure very complicated agreements. these future trilogues will be much more complicated, and i count on the good will of the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, to try and agree the best possible compromise for the sake of european citizens for the fulfilment of our paris agreement commitment and in order to preserve our planet.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i would like to thank all the members who have spoken, because the debate has been very rich, and i think that, as mr blanco lópez said, 'we have a date with history'. i've heard a lot about the targets: 35%, 40%, whether it's on energy efficiency or renewable energy. i think we have to be very ambitious on this issue because, on the one hand, there will be a trilogue and we will still encounter positions which can be very different from one member state to another, so we have to be ambitious, and, on the other hand, we have everything to gain. indeed, if we are ambitious on renewable energy, we can really have a renewable energy industry in europe, which means jobs and less dependence on other fossil fuels. as for energy efficiency, the more ambitious we are, the more we can respond to innovation, which is still a characteristic of europe, and to energy poverty. so in this discussion of objectives, let's be ambitious in responding to cop 21. secondly, i think that perhaps we have not discussed enough the governance itself, because everything will depend on the national plans that the states will propose, on the evaluation of these plans and on the possibility of correcting the situation if, in 2020, we feel that the trajectories will not be up to par. we will have to be very firm on prices so that there is a commitment from the member states, so that the commission can assess the national plans and so that the bar can be raised if it is not possible to achieve these objectives. i hope that on wednesday we will be present at the appointment with history and that we will not fall short of what the world expects of europe's positioning.
in writing. the energy package we are voting on was expected and necessary. let us be clear: this package is essential to the achievement of the european union's climate objectives: with it we must deliver on our commitments to make the european union a leader in the green transition. we cannot tolerate too many derogations, too much flexibility and allow the development of devices which have perverse effects. we must maintain the level of our ambition and our targets to curb our greenhouse gas emissions. the legislative report on the development of renewable energies must make it possible to significantly commit european policy towards clean fuels. the aim is to promote the technologies with the lowest carbon footprint. after applauding the ratification of the paris agreement with both hands, we must now act. we must not be spectators to other world powers, and we must not try to save a model which has already shown its limitations. it is time to start the shift towards truly clean energy sources, in the service of growth that is virtuous and that benefits everyone.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank the rapporteur and the fictitious rapporteurs for the enormous amount of work they have done on this very complicated issue. the technical measures regulation must determine where, when and how fishermen may fish. it is essential to modernise the current rules to adapt them to the sustainability objectives of the common fisheries policy, while respecting the principle of regionalisation. as regards electric fishing, i would like to reiterate my position, which is also that of the french delegation to the epp group: i am against electric fishing and we will vote for its prohibition. however, in the event that the ban is rejected, i tabled a withdrawal amendment against the extension of this method, which proposes the status quo. the current framework allows 5% of the fleet of the member states, limited to the southern part of the north sea, to use this method on an experimental basis. if this current framework is maintained, it is imperative that the 5% limit be respected by the member states present in this basin.
mr president, we have a responsibility to speak for and in the place of the voiceless fish. the fish, who ask us if we are not ashamed of our barbaric fishing methods. this electric fishing that breaks their spine and electrifies the seabed. in fact, a weapon of mass destruction. the artisanal fishermen, on the other hand, ask us how far the predation of industrial fleets will go, which, in the lure of profit, turn oceans into veritable cemeteries. the artisanal fishermen, whose very existence is now threatened, because 'no more fish, no more fishermen'; it's as simple as that. that is why we must say no, three times no, to electric fishing, which is a disgrace to europe and to our humanity. that is why we must vote for the amendment that my colleagues and i have tabled to ban this practice from europe once and for all, a practice which is already banned throughout the world.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have a major choice to make on electric fishing. either we continue and generalize the electrification of the seabed which decimates fish, kills fishermen, desertifies our coastal territories, or we ban electric fishing, this weapon of mass predation, we protect resources, we save artisanal fishing and we have beautiful and good fish on our plates. so yes, we must vote against the ban and we must do so in spite of the european commission because, commissioner, like the rest of the commission, you continue to lie about electric fishing, you lie about the scientific basis of your decisions, you failed on the derogations - there is no scientific protocol on your derogations - you failed on the expansion of the derogations which today make it a massive fishery. so for the artisanal fisheries, for the oceans, for the chefs who support us, for the ngos who support us, let's ban this fishing. commissioner, you will have to answer to this house.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr mato, and the fictitious rapporteurs on their work on this complex and dense subject and, above all, on their success in finding the most useful compromises for moving forward. of course, there's still this whole electric fishing thing. in 2007, the commission authorised, by way of derogation, electric fishing for 5% of the fleet in the north sea. it asked us today to generalize it. so yes, mr van dalen, we are all in favour of innovation, but it still needs to be verified, it needs to be scientifically verified that the objective of sustainable resource management is being respected. however, this sustainable management must be based on the best scientific advice, which the commission ignored in 2007 and it was not mr vella who was the commissioner by not complying with the scientific advice of 2006, which recommended that no derogation should be granted. there are no scientific protocols on juveniles and marine ecosystems and scientists keep warning us about damage to cod or hake... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, on the one hand i believe that there is an absolute need to preserve the resource and, in particular, the juveniles, and on the other hand we are preparing to make electric fishing sustainable or to extend it, which is not discriminatory, since everything will be eradicated, down to the smallest fish in the area concerned. there is an inconsistency here which i cannot explain. this would be the same as allowing hunting with a helicopter equipped with several machine guns on the pretext that less damage would be done to the game. that would be an absolute scandal! allowing electric fishing is nothing more or less than that. we need a fishery that is discriminatory, that preserves the resource and that allows our fishermen - especially the artisanal fishermen in my constituency, who will be the first to be affected - to continue to sustain their activity for the sake of the development of the local economic fabric and for the future of the generations who want to continue to eat fish one day.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, january 16, 2018.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by andrea cozzolino, on behalf of the committee on regional development, on the implementation of the union's macro-regional strategies (2017/2040 (ini)) (a8-0389/2017).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, january 16, 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the question with request for an oral reply to the commission on the implementation of regulation (eu) 2015/1839 as regards specific measures for greece put by iskra mihaylova, on behalf of the committee on regional development (o-000100/2017 - b8-0001/2018) (2018/2501(rsp)).
due to the delay, i will no longer be able to take questions from the blue card.
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by josé inácio faria on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the international governance of the oceans: an agenda for the future of our oceans in the context of the 2030 sustainable development goals (2017/2055 (ini) (a8-0399/2017)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, january 16, 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by linnéa engström, on behalf of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, on women, gender equality and climate justice (2017/2086(ini)) (a8-0403/2017)
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, january 16, 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 163).
madam president, as soon as he was elected president of the french republic, emmanuel macron wanted democratic conventions to be held in all the member states of the european union. he just revived that idea. officially, the aim is to strengthen european democracy, but in reality the real aim is to carry out a targeted consultation of the most pro-european citizens in order to legitimize the great macronian project of transforming the union into an omnipotent federal state. florent banfi, the president of the union of european federalists, has openly admitted this. of course, this is an outrage to be carried out behind the backs of the european peoples, because the function of pseudo-democratic conventions is to replace referendums. that is the scandal i want to expose today. fortunately, the european states have resisted macron for the past six months and i encourage them to continue, because the european people want referendums, not bogus democratic conventions.
that item is closed.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, and the commission representatives too, let us talk about defence with brexit. the notion of permanent structured cooperation brings us back to the method of small steps, or the 'gear' dear to jean monnet. the aim is to ensnare the european countries which still have a little strategic autonomy, to make them lose the little independence they have left, in favour of collectivization, of a mutualisation of weaknesses. sharing weaknesses will never make a force. to be clear, there are only two militarily capable countries in europe, mainly france and england. britain has safeguarded its strategic independence by leaving the european union. the case of france remains. if france continues on the path of mutualisation, it will no longer be a military or diplomatic power. when germany, thanks to its industrial supremacy, has a monopoly on the manufacture of weapons, including nuclear weapons, my country, france, will be gone. as general de gaulle said, "when we give up defending ourselves, we disappear, because we let other nations make our history for us".
mr president, the european parliament's vote to ban electric fishing in europe is a historic vote and i am proud of this european parliament which has risen to the level of the requirements of our time to design development in harmony with nature. i also want to say that when we are determined to achieve an objective through the work of persuasion, it is possible to win accession, even though we are in a minority in this european parliament, and i am proud that it was my amendment, since i was the first signatory, that made this possible. finally, i would like to highlight the exemplary mobilisation of ngos and citizens that has made this possible. electric fishing will be banned in europe and this is a great step forward.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the european union, which is constantly meddling in problems for which it has no legitimacy, should show less of its angelicism. the repeatedly repeated 'we must return to the negotiating table' only serves to please the person who says it, but certainly not to advance peace in colombia, especially since some armed mafia groups do not want to sit at that table. the guerrilla commanders who do not want to surrender their weapons do so not for ideological reasons, but for purely financial reasons in order to remain masters of their territory, to continue plundering natural resources, to continue racketeering, kidnapping, murder and to continue accumulating drug revenues. in the face of guerrillas who are nothing but criminals, the countries of the union would be better inspired to help the colombian government militarily to eliminate a mortal enemy and to step up the fight against cocaine trafficking which fuels the civil war in colombia and is a serious public health problem in our country. one and a half years after an agreement that was rejected by the colombian people and which no longer rests on any popular legitimacy, certain areas need to be promoted: increasing the fight against narco-guerrilla groups; developing economic programmes in areas abandoned by the guerrillas; the european union is promoting free trade, which has the effect of further widening the differences in living standards between those who benefit from free trade and those who suffer from it. finally, the colombian state must regain its full position in the territories left by the revolutionary forces. it is astonishing that the situation of the inhabitants is often worse than when they were under the guerrilla yoke, which even leads colombians to take up arms to ensure their safety.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, many of you are very pleased with the recent demonstrations in iran. but we must be careful about what we think of these events. let's try to get some altitude. i would like us to think about the organisation of a truly multipolar world. what could be the place of a great historical nation like iran in a pacified middle east? the middle east was set on fire and blood when, from 1991 and the fall of the soviet union, the west turned it into a theatre of conquest and experimentation. the united states and europeans have tested the theory of state building in this region, that is, rebuilding a state after destroying it. it was a bloody failure in iraq. even today, there is only three hours of electricity in baghdad. we also tested the theory of regime change, in favour of an arab spring which we strongly encouraged, if not provoked. it was a disaster in egypt; the western-backed islamists have thus aggravated the country's underdevelopment and, despite the efforts of marshal al-sissi, have maintained chronic insecurity. finally, we tried the good old coup method in syria. four years and 300,000 deaths later, it is still a bitter failure and a humanitarian disaster, and we have paid some of the consequences in the form of immigration and terrorism. today we have the opportunity to defuse the centuries-old tensions that we have helped to stir. the pressure that donald trump has put on saudi arabia seems to open the door to real reform that could be fatal to islamist terrorism. vladimir putin's action, supported by china and iran, has helped to maintain the pole of stability that is bashar al-assad, despite everything. we must pool these efforts to enable the middle east to rebuild itself, minorities to be protected and a genuine development process to take place. the european union must promote this dialogue, be an interlocutor, even if it has participated in too many destabilising events. the sochi meeting and the astana process show the return to the region of historical processes that were stifled by the cold war and by unilateralism. it is high time that the european union joined the concert of this multilateral world of balance and peace.
madam president, iran occupies a strategic position in the middle east, at a point in the world where the slightest spark can cause a huge explosion. the european union must therefore be attentive to what is happening in iran, in line with its values, both human rights and peace. it is true that the nuclear agreement has not yet had the expected effects on the economy, and the persistent poverty, corruption, violations of human rights and dignity have provoked the protests that we know, as in all countries, for that matter, that have experienced this type of situation. mrs mogherini's initial reaction was late and balanced, but now she must step up her action to try to bring the iranian government to its senses, to force it to stop the abuses against its people. finally, we must strongly denounce the attitude of donald trump, president of the united states, who has taken the unfortunate habit of adding fuel to the fire wherever possible to allow business to develop at the expense of human rights.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, madam commissioner, what would we say if kenya judged our elections? well, i'm not sure that kenyan observers would find the way the european union is trying to muzzle the opposition in different european countries very democratic. however, an election process took place in kenya and, due to irregularities, was held in two parts. is the re-election of mr kenyatta a fraud? today, i think that no one can say that, since even ms schaake, who spoke earlier and who is the head of the eu observer corps, changed her mind between august and october 2017. what we need to see instead are kenya's qualities: firstly, a more peaceful political life than in many of its neighbours, a driver of regional growth and, finally, a pole of stability in east africa. given the dire situation in the countries bordering it, particularly south sudan and somalia, it is one of the most effective bulwarks against islamist terrorism. you are aware of the resurgence of the islamist militia al-shabaab and the courageous fight kenya is waging to put an end to it. kenya may not correspond to the democratic, human rights-loving and virtuous vision of the european union, but it is a sovereign state and, moreover, engaged in a common fight with us against islamism. i think it is therefore dangerous to destabilise it without having the elements to decide whether or not an election by direct universal suffrage is justified. finally, as the name suggests, the eu observer missions are composed of observers, not judges. so it seems to me that it is much more useful to encourage this country in our common struggles than to interfere in its electoral process.
madam president, as a member of the election observation mission last august, i came away with mixed and ambiguous feelings. kenyans seemed to be so afraid of a repeat of the 2007 violence that they were looking forward to many of these elections, as evidenced, indeed, by the queues we observed. we have seen only a tiny fraction of the voting and counting operations, not the upward movement of the results. was i surprised by the constitutional court's historic decision in africa? yes, like many others, but it resulted in the re-election of uhuru kenyatta, with over 93% of the vote and a low turnout of 39%, unlike in august, when raila odinga called for a boycott. according to ngos, this electoral sequence has left at least 90 dead and many gang rapes have been reported, allegedly perpetrated by police and men in uniform. the kenyans were determined to erase the past. they were led to believe that technology would restore trust, and it was the opposite. the months and years ahead will be crucial if respect for civil society and dialogue are to avoid the worst, which is to be feared.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would of course like to thank mr bernd lange here for submitting these questions to the european commission. i am, however, rather disappointed and surprised by their wording and by the lack of correspondence between the wishes expressed and the reality of the european union's trade policy. the european union is committed, it is said, to respect human rights, workers' rights and environmental standards in its trade policy. but it does not hesitate to enter into trade relations with countries which do not respect labour law or the standards set by the world labour organisation. the union does not hesitate to engage with countries that exploit children, men and women crammed into rabbit cages, with the sole aim of producing more with maximum profit. the european commission has repeatedly and desperately tried to give china market economy status. brussels also tells us that trade policy must promote sustainable development in trade agreements; it is a very good initiative which is not respected at all. the free trade agreements with canada, australia, new zealand and the mercosur countries, which it so ardently advocates, are not compatible with the notion of sustainable development. the hormone-treated beef, the poultry, the cloned meat and the gmos that will fill our plates tomorrow will have first travelled around the world, with the resulting carbon footprint. in france, a committee of experts appointed by mr macron has spoken out on the risks of ceta, pointed out its shortcomings and found it incompatible with the paris agreements, and the fact that the president of the french republic has finally sat on it does not detract from the seriousness of this study. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mr prime minister, in our discussions a few weeks ago in sofia, in the context of the conference of presidents, you indicated that the question of external borders and their necessary control was probably the greatest challenge for europe today, and you reiterated this a few minutes ago. while many heads of state or government in western europe have shown appalling angelicism and total laxity in literally organising the migration flood of europe, there are fortunately heads of government in central and eastern europe who are determined to lead the fight for identity and security. this is the case with your neighbours hungary, poland, the czech republic and now austria. at the beginning of the six months of the bulgarian presidency, you therefore have a vital role and responsibility. you can, in fact, encourage a genuine political will, which is totally absent today from the european institutions, to deter immigration, to destroy mafia networks and to strengthen protection. bulgaria has the most important land border with turkey and at the moment your government, mr borissov, has shown a firmness that has paid off because you have achieved very good results, as you said earlier. bulgaria is one of the oldest nations on our continent, it has been a real country since 681, which has gone through history, trials and wars; your people are strong, and europe needs that strength and firmness to fight against immigration, fundamentalism and to preserve our values of civilisation. finally, we have a great challenge to face: economic competition. we must guard against unfair competition, whether it comes from outside the european union or from within the european union, and finally, mr prime minister, i welcome your clear wish to normalize relations with russia. we must put an end to the absurd aggressiveness of the european institutions towards this great neighbouring power.
mr president, mr prime minister, ladies and gentlemen, the future of europe is an essential subject and it is clear that the people do not see it in the same way as the self-proclaimed elites and the european institutions, the 'machine', as general de gaulle might have said. here, many people repeat almost religiously every day that we need more europe, with its creed, its blasphemies, its lower and upper clergy. in reality, the citizens of the various countries are fed up with this europe. what they want is democracy first. democracy is by definition based on the sovereignty of peoples, and a people is not created by artificially bringing together, under the yoke of a fussy bureaucracy, people whose only aim, their only hope, is a single market organized around unfair, savage competition, uncontrolled immigration, for the benefit of a few large groups and lobbies hostile to democracy. you irish people know very well, mr prime minister, that to live in a free country is priceless, it is a treasure. you sometimes have disagreements with the british - we have had disagreements in the past - but we know that brexit is the way of the future today; we must follow it for lasting peace, for prosperity and above all for the freedom and sovereignty of our peoples.
mr president, in march 2017, the european commission published a white paper on the future of europe. five scenarios are envisaged, ranging from a reduced european union with its single market to an omnipotent federal state. this openness of mind sounds admirable, but it is in fact misleading. the union wants to continue to push forward european integration. it's the only scenario he's willing to accept. the creation of a working group on subsidiarity, which mr juncker has just mentioned, is nothing but a crude subterfuge. brexit should have made the union reconsider its position. like the british people, other european peoples no longer want this authoritarian, arrogant and immigration-driven european union. if we want to preserve a fair and intelligent form of european cooperation, we must rethink the union and return sovereignty to the states. the european union must be replaced by a union of european nations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today the european parliament adopted the revision of the renewable energy directive. this vote is crucial for the environment and the health of europeans, but also for european industries and farmers. on the important issue of first generation biofuels, i welcome the adoption of a clear, coherent and, above all, realistic position. this directive will lead us towards a gradual reduction in first generation biofuels, which takes account of the concerns expressed by the 100 000 farmers who produce rapeseed in france and the 20 000 employees in the french biodiesel sector. the directive also aims to ban all biofuels produced from palm oil from deforestation by 2021. the eu, the world's second largest importer of palm oil, must be firm and legislate on imports of palm oil from deforestation. i sincerely hope that we will soon reach agreement with the european council on this major directive.
mr president, combating disinformation by means of disinformation is a fine philosophical subject which sums up the state of the european union. i am particularly astonished by what i have heard from the commission. i find it scandalous that you can stigmatize russia in this way. fake news has always existed, including here. if the european union wants to hunt down fake news, it should start at home, sweeping its doorstep, and doing so with certain media outlets that are loaded with public money and often spread false information, which of course influences elections in the member states. the european union accuses the kremlin of funding a disinformation campaign against europe. attacking russia is good, it's in the air. you won't have many enemies, at least, with this. russia is really the right scapegoat for you because in reality, what you can't stand is that someone might have a dissenting voice to what you are saying. instead of hunting russia, start hunting it with islamist propaganda.
the debate is closed. i'll get back to you, mrs grapini. i have already been informed twice that you have asked to speak on a 'personal matter'. don't worry, i'll give it to you. i would just like to remind you that under rule 164 you cannot speak on the substance of the debate, but simply, which is not bad, i think, either refute what was said during the debate about you personally, or opinions that were given to you, or you can correct your own statements. you have three minutes to do this.
you have had the opportunity to speak, madam, indeed, on this subject. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by romana tomc, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the implementation of the youth employment initiative in the member states (2017/2039(ini)) (a8-0406/2017).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, any measure designed to help employment, except in very special cases, is evidence of the failure of national and, in this case, european policies in this field. this is all the more true since the last economic crisis occurred more than ten years ago. it is therefore an assistance with public funds also intended to alleviate the difficulties of private entrepreneurs in their search for qualified employees. in this particular case, however, the youth employment initiative mechanism deserves closer examination. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work is a very good one. our group and i have been able to verify this on the ground, both in france and abroad, thanks to the rapporteur, mrs tomc. the conditions for its implementation are better controlled and better managed financing which does not replace national funds and which is regularly assessed for quality. this arrangement must not become definitive. on the positive side, it must make good use of european funds to support our most vulnerable young people in their learning and employment, and it can prevent talent from fleeing their country. we are very attentive and positively critical, and we will support this report on implementation.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, youth unemployment in europe is a scandal and it is in an attempt to respond to this evil, this scourge, that our heads of state or government in 2013 conceived the youth employment initiative, leaving it to the member states to implement the appropriate provisions. although real progress has been made, it is true that evaluation is difficult. in many cases, the most urgent response is required, depending on the urgency of the local situation. we need structural measures, madam commissioner, and i would like to emphasize vocational training, which is a real investment in the future. take the example of countries with a tradition of apprenticeship: germany, the netherlands, austria and denmark. these countries have virtually no youth unemployment, and i therefore hope that, drawing on these good practices, a specific programme for vocational training and apprenticeship can be developed, madam commissioner. i commend your initiative, since at the beginning of october you put on the table, for the attention of governments and the council, a single framework for what could be, in europe, effective and quality learning. i therefore hope that there will be a programme of vocational training and apprenticeship, with a view to the next multiannual financial framework. i also hope that, for greater efficiency, there will be a genuine vocational training and apprenticeship mission within the commission services so as to better coordinate the interventions of your directorate-general, but also of the directorate-general for culture and education, for erasmus grants, and also of the directorate-general for regional development, since it is a question of mobilising the regional development funds and the european social fund. i believe that by taking this path, the european union will speak to europeans; it is obviously a way forward.
madam president, the facts are well known: the unemployment rate is high in many european countries and young people are particularly affected. the causes are also known: the 2008 crisis, coupled with austerity policies and the shortage of low-skilled jobs, make the phenomenon sustainable. in 2013, the european union finally realised the need to act. the youth employment initiative has not been effective so far, so it is necessary to extend it until 2020 and to extend it to 25-30 year olds, as those who entered the labour market without finding a permanent job in 2008 are now in this age group. the report rightly focuses on young people who are neither in employment nor in education. it is necessary to promote their integration through apprenticeship, work-sharing or training. the need for this is urgent, since we risk jeopardising the future of what sociologists already call the 'sacrificed generations'.
madam president, commissioner, after three years of activity, it is time to give the youth employment initiative a health check. it is clear that this fund is doing well and has come a long way since our assembly gave it a boost by allocating an additional €1 billion to help young people in the most deprived areas. he is now the best student in the school. but this is no time for bliss. yes, the youth unemployment rate has fallen, but it is still too high and a number of states are lagging behind in the use of funds. now that it is time for new year's resolutions, i would like to make three. they are essential to increase the impact of the youth employment initiative tenfold. this aid must first go to those who need it most, to those young people who are isolated because they are not registered with the employment services, because they have little or no qualifications or because they are far from the major urban centres. this aid must then be used to create quality offers. they have to be a plus on a resume and a passport to land a job in the process. in this sense, more emphasis should be placed on learning experiences that lead directly to a job and on experiences abroad. finally, this european aid must be sanctified; it must be one of the priorities of the next budgetary programming.
in writing. the implementation of the youth employment initiative (yei) is a thorny issue because it is a cross between the perfectly legitimate desire to help, through substantial funding, particularly dissociated young people, which we support, and the development of a system of supported employment, which has been criticised by the court of auditors and against which we are extremely critical. nevertheless, a large part of the funding comes from the european union solidarity fund (eusf) and some of our french regions benefit from it, which we welcome. the money of the french taxpayer goes back, even if only in part, to the french who need it most. we call for better management and above all we remind you that this is not a long-term solution. only a revival of the economy accompanied by a similar patriotism can stem youth unemployment.
in writing. last september, the european commission presented its industrial strategy to enable european businesses to be more competitive. the aim is to recycle plastics in europe on a large scale and efficiently. the recycling rate in the eu is only 22%, which is considered too low. a new strategy is therefore needed, not only to encourage good practice but also to solve the problems facing the plastics industry. as we know, the obstacles to better recycling are mainly technical and economic. the commission has not found any evidence that the union industry has benefited from the measures in question. in addition, china's recent decision to ban the import of certain plastic waste from europe offers us a real opportunity to create the conditions for an internal market for recycled materials. the establishment of such a market will also require investment in plastic recycling infrastructure, the cost of which should be borne by both businesses and public authorities. yes, we need plastics, but we need good quality, recyclable plastics.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, crossborder child abduction is a serious problem. in france, it particularly affects children of franco-german couples. when these couples separate, german parents often take their children to germany, even though the french courts have given french parents custody of the children. several of these parents complained to me about the inertia of the european union. i am glad to see that their suffering has been heard. the zwiefka report should make it easier for them to get their children back. of the measures proposed, three appear particularly promising. first, the reduction of the time limits for returning children to a maximum of 18 weeks. secondly, the establishment in each european state of national judges specialised in child abduction. finally, the role of the national central authorities, which ensure the effectiveness of the system in each member state, should be strengthened. that is why i shall vote for the zwiefka report.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, tomorrow we will vote on the council's decision to conclude the marrakesh treaty. the aim is to facilitate access to published works for the blind and visually impaired and for people with other print disabilities. this vote will mark a decisive step for europe in a process that began in 2009 within the world intellectual property organisation. this process culminated in the adoption of the treaty in 2013. the effective application of the directive and regulation adopted on 13 september last and implementing the treaty will be made possible by this ratification. as a frenchwoman from a highly literary country, i would like to thank all those who have made such a treaty possible. i can only repeat my satisfaction at this step forward for all those people who will finally have access to a greater part of our heritage.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, commissioner, as the commission has pointed out, more than one third of the 15 000 victims of human trafficking registered in the european union between 2013 and 2014 were non-european foreigners. the commission itself admitted, and i quote: 'human trafficking networks take advantage of the routes of irregular immigration by targeting the most vulnerable people, namely women and children'. it also points out that traffickers are increasingly exploiting asylum systems. however, in a july 2017 response, the commission envisages turning against states if it finds that they are misapplying the trafficking in human beings directive. the european union's complete lack of questioning of its irresponsible migration policy is striking when one considers its appalling consequences in terms of modern slavery and sexual exploitation, which particularly affect children.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, human trafficking, like prostitution and forced begging, is a reality in all our countries and throughout the world. it would be almost as lucrative as drug trafficking or counterfeiting. in our cities we see men every day, but above all women and children, suffering from cold and hunger, exploited by mafia networks. 65% come from the eu countries, but others come from much further afield. unicef reports an increase in the number of nigerian women and girls who are victims of human trafficking. what do you suggest? you are asking the commission to impose even more sanctions on member states which do not comply with this or that directive and, worse, with their duty of care towards the union, as if this would help the victims. you refuse to mention the straw that has become the schengen area, which facilitates the trafficking of mafia organizations, which become untraceable. in addition, the european commission wants to increase the quotas of migrants even further, thus creating new air appeals, delivering these migrants into the hands of smugglers who will, precisely, rush to enslave or prostitute them. as often happens, you're using your incantations to try to resolve situations that could be controlled without your crazy policies.
mr president, commissioner, do our values have a cost, do our values have a price? i can tell you that for some people this price is what they set: it is the price of a kilo of sicilian cherry tomatoes, and it is true that this is not typical of sicily, but i have been to this territory and i have seen all the consequences of the exploitation of these products. behind these cherry tomatoes, there is a system of small masters and slaves, corporals and farm workers. these tomatoes are the result of social and sexual exploitation of romanian, tunisian and nigerian women, often organized - it has been said - by the companies themselves. these women, trafficked, workers, hostages, are faced with sophie's choice, they dream of a better future but will never be free. these exploitations and trafficking are always to be condemned, and more and more strongly. i would like to pay tribute to these women, but good feelings are not enough to stop this social and sexual trafficking. therefore, i ask you, commissioner, to present your post-2016 strategy on combating the increasing trafficking of women and girls. this strategy must be effective, responding to the urgency of the situation, sanctioning member states which do not respect the legal instruments, but also providing them with financial assistance to better combat this scourge.
in writing. with 453 sites listed, europe is home to about half of unesco's world heritage sites. and although, under article 167 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the preservation of heritage is the responsibility of states, the contribution of programmes such as creative europe has been significant. however, these cannot cover the need for financing for the renovation of the old building, as public funds are running out. the situation is particularly critical in france, exacerbated by the state's disengagement from local finances. between 2003 and 2007, the proportion of monuments in a poor state of conservation increased from 32% to 41%, a trend that was exacerbated by the crisis. the awareness-raising actions carried out in the context of the year of heritage cannot therefore be a substitute for a real effort to promote it, especially since the eurobarometer of 7 december 2017 shows that the importance attached to heritage is largely shared by europeans. similarly, voluntary work cannot be equated with renovation work, which requires specific skills. the european year of cultural heritage could be an opportunity to promote these under-recognised professions, despite their tangible career prospects.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, allow me first of all to thank my colleague nicola danti and to welcome his work, his report which i hope will be supported by a large majority. this large majority is gathered because we are in a logic of balance and compromise, which takes account of all our major principles, but which also tries to be anchored in the reality of economic activity and the reality of consumers, in the whole of the european area. this is no small feat in a context where we are dealing with a more global climate, around the services package, which i find particularly emblematic of the disconnection of a number of the proposals that can be made here with the reality of companies, smes and consumers. we are always told about unjustified barriers, regulatory obstacles, but it would be good to remember that a regulation, a regulation, an obligation, if they still exist and if the commission has done its job properly, are in the public interest, that these regulations are there to protect the health and safety of consumers, food safety and the protection of the environment. these are not small objectives and they deserve careful consideration before they are necessarily called into question. this is what nicola danti's report emphasises, the need for balance. in this respect, i regret that our liberal colleagues, once again, have shown this great deregulatory dogmatism by simply removing the mention of these general interest objectives, which must be the basis of all regulation. i hope this amendment will not pass. i would like to thank nicola again for his excellent work and i hope that he will get a large majority.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am concerned about this text in several ways: firstly, the continuous expansion of the european commission's powers of coercion to the detriment of the member states. we wonder where it is going to stop and whether we, the elected representatives, will ever know how to stop it. secondly, the new restriction indicator, a genuine dematerialized and technocratic tool which will in the future - be assured - constitute an essential argument in favour of the imposition of sanctions by the commission, despite all the promises that can be made to you today; thirdly, the expansion of professional recognition, which, although it could be positive on a case-by-case basis, is in fact terribly destabilising on the scale envisaged, whether from an economic, social or cultural point of view; fourthly, the systematic criminalization of any idea of national preference, even in respect of those regulated professions which are described by the rapporteur himself as strategic for the general balance of the member states. finally, the destruction of regulated professions has already begun on a large scale. the technocratic wizard apprentices in brussels, inventors of all sorts of indices, should focus on their disastrous record and realise the inadequacy of these measures for some member states which often have much more to lose than to gain. i would add to those members who support these policies that they would do better to be more concerned with safeguarding the general interest rather than indulging in the federalist drift which brings us closer to the coast and to collective shipwreck every day. the enl group, which i represent this morning, will oppose the adoption of this report when it votes, for obvious reasons of common sense. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
answer is "blue cardboard". look, each country has its own rules, its own standards and reacts according to its own interests and so, in general, when we talk about standardisation or harmonisation in this house, it is often a harmonisation and a levelling down. so i think that each member state is able to legislate in its own interests and that will always be my objective and, in any case, my main point of defence in this house.
madam president, by introducing proportionality checks on regulated professions, the commission is making a mistake in substance and in law. first, because its ideological bias is not supported by any credible economic analysis. in fact, successive waves of deregulation have systematically resulted in a deterioration of service and employment. the same will be true of regulated professions, while some, such as the legal profession, are already experiencing a considerable deterioration in their conditions of practice. secondly, on the law, because those regulations fall within the competence of the member states, both by virtue of the case-law of the court of justice of the european union and of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the member states therefore have less to justify themselves by the fact that these professions fulfil tasks of general interest requiring a high level of qualification.
madam president, yes, the chinese giant, with its enormous commercial and industrial power, is as seductive as it is frightening. this will to power puts human rights on the back burner and, while accepting economic globalisation, the chinese leadership stubbornly refuses to consider human rights, democracy and justice, which would naturally undermine their power. the european union must strongly condemn what is happening in china and urge the immediate release of activists and lawyers imprisoned under false pretenses. human rights are one of the fundamental values of the european union and every european leader, every leader of the member states of the european union, when he visits china, must express this. i would have liked the president of the french republic, during his recent visit, to have addressed these issues publicly, the only way to make it clear to the chinese government that we will never accept that business takes precedence over human rights.
author. madam president, the drc, or disorder as the art of governing was the headline of a major evening newspaper in my country. this country is sick of its wealth. its president, who has been in office for 17 years, almost day after day, wants to remain in power at any cost. in kasai alone, where the worst massacres of recent months have taken place, there are nearly 5,000 dead, 89 mass graves and 1 million displaced persons. the government changes the mining code so that congolese benefit from mining. we'd laugh if it wasn't so dramatic. mining regions are ravaged by conflict; the responsibility of multinationals is constantly being pointed out by international reports. the former colonies seem to be losing control, which is probably why belgium is going to fundamentally review its cooperation in these areas. so how do we help the congolese people? the european union must not only support an international investigation into the massacres, but above all it must oblige european companies to respect human rights, starting with legislation on blood minerals.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, those who put joseph kabila in power no longer know how to get rid of him. the president is taking advantage of the opposition's division and insecurity to stay in power. the forces that participated in the peace and transition agreements, including the church, are overwhelmed by the behavior of the current government. unfortunately, a european sanctions regime is likely to be ineffective: it is against the law, it will unite a part of congolese opinion behind its president and will be an example of the principle of "two weights, two measures" because when the criminal paul kagame, or mr sassou-nguesso and others change the constitution to stay in power, we say nothing! the only solution is action by the security council which takes account of the whole situation in the great lakes to achieve, through diplomacy and force, a negotiated process. france, russia and the united states can take this initiative, begin a substantive work linking security and development so that peace returns to the african great lakes, and if necessary, impose it by force.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, first of all, thank you for your opening remarks to honour our late colleague, édouard ferrand. we are very grateful for the tribute you have paid him and, of course, we will share it with his relatives and especially his wife and children. i also thank you for the minute's silence in his memory. we would like to see a slight change to the agenda of this plenary session so that the vote on the hübner and silva pereira report, which concerns the composition of the european parliament after the european elections and after brexit, originally scheduled for wednesday, can take place, if possible, either this thursday or during the mini-session in brussels on 1 march, because it seems that opinions on this report are quite divided within our chamber and the absence of a very large number of members from the same group - which will be the case due to the fact that many of us will be attending the funeral of our colleague édouard ferrand in paris - could have an impact on the outcome of the vote. therefore, we submit this request to your good will. and, mr president, if i may, i would like to say, with regard to mr czarnecki, that of course we do not agree with his remarks at all, but they were part of a heated debate with one of his colleagues who accused poland of being a dictatorship. there is a principle of law, if you will allow me, very important, that you cannot be both judge and party. but when the conference of presidents, composed almost exclusively of mr czarnecki's political opponents, takes a decision against him, the principles of law are violated and democracy cannot be invoked while violating the basic principles of law.
the s&d group, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, has tabled a number of amendments to the report. as you said, mr president, this time the economic environment is actually improving for the european economy, and yet monetary policy still has to help support economic activity. in this context, our report invites you to contribute to a reflection that is emerging among experts on the reality of inflation, as new air is blowing. your mandate, set at around 2%, corresponds to a mode of production, a state of globalisation which is clearly being called into question. it seems to me that the central bank has a role to play in this area. beyond what monetary policy can do in its own right, it seems to us that the messages you send must be supported when it comes to urging the member states to review their wage policy, to review their banking sector structures, and also this theme which was finally discussed so much in davos, which is the fight against inequalities. among the new challenges, we see more and more governments and banks becoming concerned about cybersecurity and virtual currencies. here too, we expect perspectives from the institution you preside over. finally, as you know, we as an institution will attach great importance to the conditions for appointing your future vice-president. we are waiting for a shortlist, a balanced list, which will enable us to meet all the criteria laid down in the treaty for the post of vice-president of your institution.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mr draghi, the current globalist doxa would like to make it seem that the economy is doing better, and in particular that the recovery in growth in the countries of the european union is due to the accommodative policy of the ecb, but this idealized vision does not take into account the very high level of systemic risks. for the national front, there are six danger zones for the world economy, over which the ecb has influence. first, the volume of private debt in the oecd countries is himalayan. the rise in long-term interest rates will have a catastrophic effect, with bankruptcies in chains. second, the risk of a financial market collapse, even greater than in 2000 and 2008, will materialize when central banks stop their injections of excess liquidity. thirdly, the uncontrolled expansion of shadow banking: the political and financial elite are trying to deceive public opinion by pretending that the banking system is now safer thanks to the basel rules, but paradoxically shadow banking, this shadow finance, is high risk. asset managers, hedge funds and insurance companies, for example, have never been more extreme in their implications. fourthly, ccps: these clearing houses of the world financial markets are real time bombs. they concentrate more than ever all market risks and interoperability, i.e. the interconnection of ccps, multiplies the risk of a domino effect until the collapse of the entire global financial system. will the ecb stop such contagion by the bankruptcy of a ccp? fifth danger, the parallel world of the blockchain, and finally cybersecurity, with terrorist cyberattacks of the system. far from your fantasy of resilience, mr draghi, the ultra-liberal, globalist economic model is leading us to the worst crash of all time. i hope the ecb is aware of this and is preparing for it.
for the greens/efa group mr president, i have a message for volkswagen and its competitors in the car industry. twice, in the diesel scandal and in animal testing, you lied to the public. your public apologies and the firing of your leaders are not fooling anyone. we're waiting for repairs. i'm terrified that ethics have so far departed from the methods of the world's leading manufacturer. 600 000 employees depend on you, 400 000 europeans are victims of air pollution every year. respect them! instead, the automobile industry uses tobacco-like methods by locking monkeys in cages, inhaling your diesel fumes. but i have a scoop for the automotive industry: diesel is carcinogenic. that's what the wto has been saying since 2012. so, the diesel is finished. the rest of the world has already taken the turn to autonomous shared-owned vehicles. so compensate european consumers as in the us, wipe out the slate, so that we can finally look to the future.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, commissioner, the volkswagen group is being criticised for having conducted a study in 2013 and 2014 on 25 healthy humans in which they had to inhale nitrogen dioxide, a highly toxic gas and a major pollutant of the earth's atmosphere. in 2014, monkeys were locked up and forced to breathe in the smoke from a vehicle. apart from the fact that this is a flagrant violation of animal welfare and human welfare, these tests constitute a second scandal. the aim was to study the effects of pollution from volkswagen diesel engines, which were then modified to appear less polluting, which is all the more reprehensible. it will therefore be interesting to see what action the european commission takes on these revelations, given its commitment to fair competition and to the rules in force.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am surprised, but not surprised, to find myself once again standing in this house to speak about the evils of the diesel industry. i am surprised because the facts we are discussing today - experiments on monkeys and humans subjected to inhalation of toxic gases, with no regard for their dignity and health - are extremely serious. they're actually quite astonishing. it's shocking. it's unthinkable! but i am not surprised, because the unbridled pursuit of profitability, without regard for the human, social and societal costs, has long been shown to be harmful in all economic fields. some car manufacturers have not hesitated to set up a business model based on cheating, a sign of a lack of ethical sense, which can therefore also be found in the experiments revealed by the german press. the investigation into emissions fraud had shown how some people are twisting the eu's emissions rules to their advantage. the same is now seen for clinical trial rules and animal welfare standards. in these areas, it is the responsibility of the european authorities to shed light on the matter, but also to act. it would also be welcome if the commission would inform the european parliament of the status of the five infringement procedures opened in july 2017 against five member states that do not properly sanction broadcasting fraud. the two subjects are not disconnected, they are closely linked. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
the answer is 'blue card'. i have the same information as you. but you realize that these volunteers must have inhaled very toxic gases. doesn't that shock you? it is time that we can protect european consumers and citizens in the same way as in other states. this is what we adopted in the report of the emis committee of inquiry and this must be taken seriously into account.
mr president, is our society so sick that it is possible to breathe toxic gases into human guinea pigs and monkeys for several hours, which i consider to be acts of torture against animals who cannot say no? in this dieselgate case, scandal is added to scandal, shame to shame and disgust to disgust for the practices of industrialists who are ready to do anything to cheat and for the sake of profit. that is why we are calling for an investigation and for them to be punished, because they are in breach of the european charter of fundamental rights, they offend our values and, in the end, they are a disgrace to us.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would first like to thank my colleagues and particularly the rapporteur for the excellent work and collaboration on this dossier. i think that the text we are about to adopt is a good compromise, which will make it possible to take a further step towards a more thorough and efficient digital market for the benefit of consumers. because i would like to point out that the internal market is one of the pillars of the european construction and that, if the internet is disrupting consumer patterns, it must not be a means of going back to the foundations of our union. in particular, discrimination between consumers within the internal market is unacceptable. when i go to a bakery in belgium or when our colleagues here go to a shop in strasbourg, they must not be refused to sell what they want to buy, on the pretext that they are italian or belgian or because they live in another member state. on the internet, it is exactly the same and i am glad that this regulation will put an end to discrimination. this regulation will therefore result in more choice for consumers and an additional benefit for them. but just as discrimination is unacceptable, it would have been equally unacceptable to unfairly undermine consumer protection on the pretext that it is an online purchase. this regulation, fortunately, as our group has requested, will maintain a high level of protection for consumers engaging in cross-border transactions. i also wanted to stress here that it was important to be cautious about the impact of this regulation on specific sectors, with a specific economic model. i am therefore pleased that the cultural sector can be subject to further evaluation in the context of a possible future review. but what this text shows above all, beyond the progress we have been able to make, is that it is in the context of ever more demanding harmonisation in consumer protection that we will be able to build an ever more efficient internal market. i think that is also the direction in which the european union must move.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, according to the rapporteur, 15% of consumers, i would say only 15% of consumers and 8% of traders have bought or sold online in another member state. that is the reason for and justification for the regulation we are debating today. this is an illustration of the priorities that the digital single market is all about. the european legislators are convinced that this regulation will be the remedy to the existential crisis facing the european union. so what does this text say? that the reasons for these low rates of cross-border consumption stem from unjustified barriers imposed by member states through the technique of geoblocking, removing european consumers from the nirvana of consumption. 'geoblocking' is a concept that actually refers to digital borders. this concept is largely disregarded by the european legislator who defines it as i quote discrimination on the basis of nationality or place of residence. the regulation simply wants to prohibit its use by professionals. despite the temporary exclusion of audiovisual services from the scope of the regulation, which i welcome, i want to denounce this new, brutal unilateral intervention in economic equilibrium, a measure which will have serious consequences for a very large number of operators, who will see their consumers moving to where it is cheaper.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr vice-president, thank you for this 'package', as we say in european terms. of course, he will be interested in you when you help smes navigate the tax maze that sometimes overwhelms them. but i would like to turn to the issue of reduced rates, because it is a highly sensitive political subject on which this european parliament has often asked you. you make a proposal that puts us at the heart of our contradictions. rather than debate and negotiate around an annex, you propose to give more flexibility to the member states, with the risk of having a totally variable geometry depending on the member states and thus an impact on a logic of the internal market which will be called into question. this, however, helps to address a number of concerns, notably the issue of zero rates on a number of products or the alignment of the taxation of paper books on digital books, which, from the point of view of culture, is a very important issue. i would, however, like to draw your attention to two points. first of all, i would like to ask you how you identified this minimum rate of 12% for the collection of vat by the member states. what is the current rate per member state? finally, i believe that, in view of the cross-border impact on a number of products, this flexibility left to the member states will require us to put in place mechanisms to counteract the effects of this competition which could be established in border areas.
madam president, commissioner, i am afraid that we are once again going to miss the train of history, because the text we are being offered is a dull text. it is futile because, throughout the discussions, some for national interests, others for sectoral interests or others for both at the same time, arrive at these results. you know that i am in favour of carbon adjustment at the border, but you yourself have always opposed it because you said - and you always say - that it is a protectionist measure. protectionist, yes: protectionist of the climate, of the environment, of jobs. so i'm advocating for carbon adjustment at the border. in fact, many third countries, including china, have understood this very well and are investing massively to decarbonise their industries and economies. imagine how ridiculous it would be if tomorrow, in five years, in ten years, imported products were less carbon-intensive than our own. we'll look like fools, won't we, commissioner? so that's why we lack ambition and we've missed the story line. and you know i don't like to eat stale soups.
madam president, commissioner, dear mrs girling, thank you, because we have been waiting for this reform of the carbon market for a long time. i would also like to thank my colleagues in the epp group, because we have worked very hard with ivo belet and esther de lange to finalise our position on such a complex subject. because when we set up the ots system, we thought the price would be 30 euros per tonne. we are far from that, since the price is between 6 and 9 euros because of a surplus of quotas on the market. this, of course, prevents 'low-carbon' investment from accelerating and the annual reduction in allocation from 1.7% to 2.2% which can be revised in 2024 will help to curb this surplus. this reform will ensure that allowances are distributed more fairly, in line with real emissions from industrial sites, and will make it possible to create the fund for the modernisation of our electricity sectors and to mobilise the equivalent of more than 400 million allowances for innovation in europe in an innovation fund. this is fundamental. we are thus fulfilling our commitments under the paris agreement, but at the same time we are defending our industrial sectors, which face tough international competition. our industry is performing well, and it must be held to very high standards. we must help it to remain competitive, because what is essential is to reconcile a real industrial strategy with active climate diplomacy.
author. madam president, like others, it was with surprise and misunderstanding that on 5 december 2017 i saw tunisia appear on the blacklist of tax havens, led by the council, and then, on 13 december, on the list of countries at high risk for money laundering and terrorist financing, led by the commission. for the first list, the council reversed its decision on 23 january 2018 and removed tunisia from that list along with seven other countries, including panama. - what's the deed? but on the other hand, the commission maintains its position, and i was not convinced by its arguments at the libe-econ meeting on 29 january. that is why i, on behalf of my group, tabled this objection so that the plenary could express its views. it is not about fighting money laundering or terrorist financing - we all agree to go further and further - it is about the way we display and prioritise this. the blacklist in question at the beginning of december included only 11 countries, including five from the mena region, all of which were at war. afghanistan, iraq, syria, yemen plus iran, but not libya and not any of the gulf states. what is tunisia doing here? we are told, of course, that other countries will be coming, including european countries. allow me to be skeptical. we are also told that being on this list does not mean punishment, but increased surveillance. true, but what signal is being sent to tunisia's investors and creditors? what damage will have been done by the time the commission reverses its delegated act? will you? and if so, when? tunisia remains economically fragile; it is moving step by step towards its democratic transition. is it worth recalling that its new institutions only really started their work in 2015 and that the amendment of the legislation on these subjects was among the first measures taken? which is what started the fatf procedure! that's a lot of money. is it really the best way to support tunisia, as we keep saying, to put it on this list? the fatf assessment on which the commission decision is based is dated may 2016. however, a new assessment was published on 6 december 2017, before the publication of the delegated act. the fatf itself has just taken the consequences by removing tunisia from the high-risk countries and placing it on the list of countries under surveillance, which confirms the progress and commitments of the tunisian government. more than 26 commitments fulfilled at the beginning of december and more since then! so why does the commission want to keep tunisia on this list at all costs? are there not other countries, more dangerous for the european union, which should be included more urgently? is it so difficult to do the delegated act again? how and according to what priorities does the commission work on the countries of the fatf? the eu is committed to the peace process and to the peace process in the middle east, and the eu is committed to the peace process in the middle east. so we must act on this, commissioner. i am personally concerned that the issues are different and that pressure is being put on tunisia to implement other reforms more quickly, including some so-called 'structural' reforms. to really support tunisia, i would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of this objection so that we can finally bring our words into line with our actions.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, on this matter, i believe you must engage fully with the european parliament. but you're obviously coming at us with your fingertips, if i may say so. you reiterated the priority of the fight against money laundering. you know how resolutely this parliament is committed to this battle, but you also know that the support you say you want to give tunisia is a key concern for us, given the strategic stakes of the relationship that the european union will develop with that country. in this respect, the statement which you made or one of your staff members made at the econ and libe committees meeting is not satisfactory. we would like you to make a clear demand for the use of your own analysis grid before tomorrow's vote, as you have promised to do before these committees. you did so on 29 june last, in a memorandum, indicating that you would use your own analysis grid, independent of the fatf's. we also want you to commit to not mix up all the reforms you expect from tunisia and to make your decision solely on whether or not to remove tunisia from that list. we want you to commit to amending the declaration before the vote tomorrow.
member of the commission. – madam president, first i would like to inform you about sri lanka’s deficiencies. sri lanka shows deficiencies in international cooperation, in particular the provision of mutual legal assistance, inappropriate regulation and supervision of the non—financial sector, customer due diligence requirements for designated non—financial businesses and professions, weakness in risk—based supervision in the financial sector with a low level of sanctions, shortcomings in access to beneficial ownership information for legal persons, as well as for legal arrangements or inadequate regime on targeted financial sanctions and some other deficiencies. turning back to tunisia, the commission would like to welcome again the high—level commitment shown by tunisia and its efforts in addressing its strategic deficiencies in the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing. strong rules in the area help ensure security and stability, especially in the current context of terrorist threats in the eu and its neighbourhood. they are also necessary to ensure a sound, stable and solid financial system, which is a condition for sustainable growth. the commission is therefore fully committed to support tunisia in these efforts. this is something i can promise in this place. we are committed to support and to help. the european union and tunisia have a privileged partnership and we are here to support our partners. it is in our mutual interest. our experts are in close cooperation to provide this assistance. i hear the concerns expressed by members of this parliament today. i also confirm that we will work together to ensure that tunisia can be rapidly removed, but the actual timing will depend on tunisia’s own efforts. at the same time, i want to reassure you that the eu listing has no punitive intention. it will not hinder our development policy, it will not restrict trade relations, and it will not block financial transactions. finally, parliament has called on the commission to have a more ambitious and autonomous assessment of third countries’ risk. we have to ensure the success of this important process by showing from the beginning that the eu’s autonomous assessment is objective and based on facts.
madam president, the alstom-siemens merger, which is presented as an industrial alliance that will meet the challenges of the new generation of high-speed trains and curb chinese competition, is in fact the absorption of the french company by the german group, which will own 50.5% of the capital by 2023. so after general electric, we choose finance over employment, research and development. the unions reject this logic, and the anticor association points the finger at the french government, which is organizing this dismantling and allows the bouygues group to pocket 500 million in the operation. i am in favour of france's commitment to industry and a european recovery strategy using protectionism, which is called solidarity. i ask the european commission to advocate cooperation on the airbus model, which could take the form of an economic interest grouping.
madam president, tunisia has been plagued by chronic instability since the 2011 revolution. in recent weeks, serious riots have broken out in several cities. we must help tunisia, not with nice words as president macron does, but with deeds. it's in our interest because this instability is facilitating the movement of terrorists. interpol has just revealed that 50 tunisian jihadists have landed in italy. one of them is already in france. this confirms the correctness of the national front's analysis. economic aid to unstable countries is necessary but not sufficient. the schengen agreement must be terminated and control of national borders by the states must be restored everywhere.
mr president, mr prime minister, the future of europe is everyone's business and our role here is to tell the truth. to say what we have achieved since 2014 and to say with lucidity what is not working, without hypocrisy. a recent example is the modernisation of trade defence instruments. on this point we have made progress by increasing our anti-dumping duties, but the member states have not taken it upon themselves to abolish the application of the 'lesser duty', that symbol of naivety which takes away the truly punitive value of anti-dumping duties. this 'minor right' should no longer be the rule but the exception in commercial defence. this is the fight we must fight. between the dream and the enchantment of some and the extremist and populist dangers of others, there is a path of realism and efficiency, which we defend. we refuse to see europe moving away from its peoples and say 'no' to the useless, unfair and inapplicable gadget of transnational lists. we are among those who are working to ensure that europe's action is focused on priorities. either some still defend the soft consensus, or we bet on a europe that moves faster, perhaps at different levels of integration, with strong markers to give visibility and readability to europe's action. mr prime minister, this is what our citizens expect.
mr president, mr prime minister, you began your speech by talking about the added value for citizens of a country, including your own, of membership of the european union. you also raised the question of your neighbourhood and you were open to the idea that, under certain conditions, these countries could join the european union. i thank you for that. the balkan wars, i mean the wars, have left their mark. as a member of the eu-balkan friendships, i am aware of all the questions raised about reconciliation and i am convinced that there is a way if there is a will. i was able to recall at the last eu-kosovo meeting that france and germany were able to achieve this reconciliation in order to create the european union, a union of peace, security, freedom and economic prosperity. croatia can play a leading role in bringing about a return to coexistence in this geographical area of the balkans which has been so often abused throughout history. i have no questions to ask you, i simply encourage you to continue the dialogue with your neighbours.
madam president, we are in favour of energy efficiency and energy storage becoming priorities, and electric mobility is a future solution for energy independence. the policy of supporting innovation and the development of renewable energies is also of interest. we appreciate the desire to look for competitive alternative energy sources, but we regret that this programme is linked to the ambitious objectives of the energy union. the scheme creates incentives for private investment, allowing the private sector to finance the bulk of the projects. the projects supported are therefore related to innovation in the energy sector, but always with a search for concrete development and profitability, which we approve. the priorities set by this programme, the desire to find indigenous sources of energy, the involvement of the private sector and the interest of the projects financed could make it possible to vote in favour of this text. however, the submission to the energy union, which we oppose, and the demand that the ninth framework programme of horizon 2020 be increased by 40 billion, or 50% of its budget despite brexit, invites us not to support this text and to opt for abstention.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the figures and statistics on female genital mutilation (fgm) are terrible, not only in the world but also in europe. commissioner, as you said, one million victims in 13 member states. this is all too common in europe today. it is our duty to do everything we can to put an end to this threat to our young european girls. the resolution also acknowledges that these barbaric practices are the work of immigrant civilizations and populations. all right, but what do you propose to do about it? reform of the eu's immigration procedures to make mutilation an automatic ground for asylum. do you not think that this will create a new air appeal for immigration from africa and the use of mutilation by smugglers to secure passage to europe? it will not offer the women victims whom you think you are defending with this text any solutions, quite the contrary. you cruelly offer them new hope knowing full well that it is only an illusion. i can only imagine your next resolution which will no doubt propose family reunification for the victims' relatives. mr macron's france is ahead of you on this issue, since the french government's immigration bill makes it easier for the victims' families to arrive. combating genital mutilation in international collaboration is a solution, indeed, to help eradicate these horrors, especially in the countries of origin of fgm, for example by helping to set up hospitals, providing care, psychological listening, but also restorative surgery or training and access to education for all young girls and boys. (the speaker refuses a question by mrs corraza bildt)
madam president, the european institute for gender equality reports that female genital mutilation is practised in about half of the member states of the european union. in 2015, the commission stated that 'public awareness is essential, particularly in communities that practice such mutilation'. this confession pointed to the origin of these appalling practices, which are punishable by imprisonment in my country, france. in 2016, the un estimated that 200 million women worldwide were victims of fgm. half of africa's 55 states are still affected, as are yemen, iraq and indonesia. every year, 3 million young women are circumcised, or six every minute. cooperation between public health, justice and child welfare services is therefore more necessary than ever to prevent, treat and, of course, punish the acts to protect any other victims.
madam president, female genital mutilation is a barbaric act which must of course be condemned and i condemn it. but i have heard equally barbaric words here, and to those i want to shout the following: "suffering has no borders or political colour. suffering is like justice, it's universal. i would also like to say to the commissioner that the years follow one another and are similar. we are still having the same debates and yet, despite our well-meaning speeches, as has been said, these barbaric acts continue and are criminal. unfortunately, by 2030, 15 million new victims will join these ranks. so what do we do? i look at the commission's spotlight initiative with great hope, with the hope of being reassured about the real effects it will have on these women and girls left behind. can a society survive when part of its youth, a priori the driving force of development, is marginalized and subject to suffering? therefore, there are two major investments which are priceless! two of them! the first is access to health care. we need to increase funding for family planning. the commission should therefore increase its financial commitment to the 'family planning 2020' programme. we must include sexual and reproductive rights in our budget and thus put an end to hypocrisy. the second investment is education, everywhere and for everyone, since no tradition can justify any sexual violence. this is also why funding for family planning is a crucial priority. it's not me who says it, it's salamita, a 14-year-old girl from mali, who says: "in the health centre, i learn a lot. i learned about the consequences of circumcision, for example. i didn't dare bring it up at home. now i'm listened to by my family because the information comes from the health center. it is by educating girls that we can save all future generations. therefore, commissioner, please, enough of the speeches, the acts. it's urgent and it's now!
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the message on our t-shirts is clear: let us put an end to female genital mutilation as soon as possible. or should we say "sexual mutilation"? the fact that the sexual organs of these women are being destroyed is a reflection of a deep-rooted gender inequality. in october, in parliament, i heard the story of a victim of fgm who explained how she watched her two young girls day and night, in the street, in front of the school, in front of her house to prevent them from being abducted and circumcised. it's a chilling story. what should we do for these millions of victims, also in europe? invest in education, of course, change mindsets, too, promote sexual and reproductive rights and adapt our legislative arsenal. the istanbul convention is a legally binding international treaty that calls for the criminalisation of sexual mutilation so that it is duly punished. ratification by the member states which have not yet done so - and there are still too many of them - and by the european union will therefore be a fundamental step. it must be ratified and implemented as soon as possible so that the perpetrators can be punished.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, by the resumption of negotiations with the western balkans, announced this year by jean-claude juncker in his traditional state of the union address, and in the programme of the new bulgarian presidency, the european union is trying to avert the sharp rejection of brexit. but 15 years after the thessaloniki summit in 2003, which was the first milestone in this long roadmap, this new enlargement has never seemed so far-fetched. not only is there no progress on most of the negotiating chapters, but the enthusiasm on both sides has waned considerably, as, in addition to the massive disapproval of public opinions in the historical member states, 51% of serbs aged 18-29 declared themselves hostile to accession in 2016. how could it be otherwise, when the future is now being written in moscow, dubai and beijing, where all these states believe they can find the foundations of good faith economic and diplomatic cooperation without political conditions? this is evidenced by serbia's key role in the restoration of the 370 km of railway lines linking belgrade to budapest in the chinese hegemonic project of new silk roads. it is clear that the european union no longer represents an unbridgeable horizon, and the awakening of national passions places its disembodied project against the tide of history.
mr president, commissioner, to talk about enlargement is of course to talk about both strategy and pragmatism. strategically, enlargement is obviously a good thing, both for the countries concerned but also - let us not forget - for europe. accession has always been accompanied, for each country, by economic, social, political, democratic, technological and peaceful development. but at the same time, in the face of global economic competition and in response to security challenges, europe will be better able to meet the challenges that will weigh heavily on it both demographically and economically. so enlargement is a good thing, but on one condition: pragmatism in the approach. the countries that join must be able to integrate quickly. this does indeed imply rights for them, but also duties, and the first of these duties is to fulfil fully the criteria which you yourself, mr mcallister or mr preda have just mentioned. if we do not, we will all face difficulties, as you have said, commissioner, including the reluctance of public opinion in these countries as well as in our own, and this psychological aspect is important. so we really need this economic, democratic and social upgrading, and europe must be able to monitor effectively, seriously and publicly what is happening in each of these countries. this means, as prime minister plenković said this morning, that everyone has to take up and assume all his responsibilities.
madam president, since july 2016, the situation in turkey has been deteriorating. thousands of people languish in prisons, including without any real charges being brought against them or without access to a lawyer. reports of torture are increasing: officials, lawyers, judges, human rights defenders and others are being tortured. cumhuriyet journalists and amnesty international officials are symbols of this, but minorities, especially kurds, are the main victims. the fight against terrorism has a good back. it is an all-out repression that is underway and the invasion of afrin has allowed recep erdogan to tighten the state of emergency a little more. how can we allow turkey to intervene in afrin with the help of terrorist groups against those who have been among the main actors in the fight against daesh? does the rule of law, human rights and international law still have meaning for the european union? it's time to stop mr. erdogan, the turkish troops must withdraw from syria.
madam president, we are again discussing the regime of mr erdogan, who is treading human rights lightly in his own country, but also in syria. in an interview the day before he was due to travel to rome, the man who dreams of being the sultan of a reconstituted ottoman empire admitted his odious blackmail of migrants. the agreement signed in march 2016 requires turkey to control the flow of illegal migrants to europe in return for a colossal €6 billion. it is the cowardice of our leaders that has allowed mr erdogan to make this fool's bargain, while continuing to demand membership of the european union, for which he already receives a lot of money. in the face of mr erdogan's arrogance, we must be firm because the european nations can control the migration flows themselves. they must follow the example of bulgaria and hungary, which are taking steps to protect their borders, despite the advice of the european commissioners. today, european migration policy is a 'total failure'. that is what the bulgarian prime minister, who now holds the rotating presidency of the european union, called it last thursday. yes, as boyko borissov said, and i quote: 'we must now prepare the migrants to return home.' in the meantime, i shall be denouncing the resolution on turkey which will be put to the vote on thursday. the report also mentions the billions of euros that the country has received every year since 2002 as a candidate country to the union. between 2007 and 2013, turkey received more eu grants than slovenia, despite being an eu member. turkey, ruled by an islamist party, is not european by its history or geography, but by the bits of territory it has retained after centuries of conquest and bloody colonization of european peoples. a century after the terrible armenian genocide, the turks continue to oppress and even oppress some christian communities, which remain in this country in the midst of islamization. after decades of kemalism, when the secular state at least had concern for christian heritage, now unesco-listed relics are left in ruins, such as in the ancient armenian capital, ani. this is what we are denouncing in one of the amendments tabled by our group, europe of nations and freedoms. therefore, while turkey can indeed be a partner, it cannot become a member of the union. it is time to make this clear to mr erdogan and to put an end to the accession process and the totally unjustified funding that is currently being used.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the reality of geopolitics is back. we simply note that ottoman policy is not european policy. only the naive and the ideologues could have ignored what history tells us. but i would also like to talk to you about turkey's violation of syria's sovereign territory. it is also clearly against international law. however, is the union legitimate in condemning this violation? have we not supported the americans and the gulf states in dismembering syria? did we not let turkey arm the islamic state, let the smuggling of refugees and oil go on? are we not subject to turkey in our actions? have we not demonized russia's decisive intervention against the jihadists? so, in what capacity are we teaching the lesson? too often we cherish causes by denouncing effects. so too is the elimination of christians, by a lack of realism.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i came here to remind you of the complacency with which your european union has treated turkey, a country officially applying for membership. then, after some reflection, i asked myself what would prevent turkey from joining the union. think about it. after all, there are more roman ruins in turkish anatolia than in all of scandinavia combined. this should even make the 'identity rights' think twice, which, if they were logical, should support turkey's accession. you will tell me that the european union is built on common values and that turkey is moving away from them, but that is not true. turkey has never been so close to this authoritarian union that has put greece under a tight grip. turkey has never been so close to our countries that criminalize freedom of speech in the name of the fight against so-called fake news. the truth is that this european union is the result of the forced coexistence of countries that are too different and that it does not give rise to any sense of belonging. the debate on turkey is therefore a great reminder to the citizens that this union is nothing and that only nations have a soul and values that unite their members.
madam president, yes, the turkish government is again on the agenda of this house and i regret it because, once again, we are faced with the repressive policy and the abuses of president erdogan, who is dragging his people and neighbouring countries into a bellicose, dangerous and unfounded bidding war. the offensive launched in recent weeks against the kurds in the afrin region of north-western syria is completely unjustified. the syrian kurds are, along with the kurdish peshmerga, the best allies of the western forces in the war against daesh. thousands of them died in this struggle for our freedom and our security. it is thanks to them that the islamic state now controls only about 5% of the territory after many defeats. once again, erdogan is using the same rhetoric: under the pretext of fighting terrorism, he is bombing in the middle of winter a region that has never attacked or threatened turkish territory and arresting anyone who protests in his country against this flagrant violation of international law. the offensive also hinders the search for a solution to the war in syria. our duty as europeans is to demand the withdrawal of the turkish army and the release of those imprisoned very unfairly in turkey since july 2016.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam high representative, the question here is not to judge the internal politics of venezuela. each of us will appreciate it according to our political sensibilities. let's just be honest here. this country has been facing us imperialism since the 19th century, and especially since the coming to power of hugo chavez, because of its oil resources. this imperialism is real, unlike the one you accuse that we accuse russia of. our parliament has approved sanctions against russia for i quote destabilising ukraine. where are the sanctions against those who destabilize venezuela? the methods of destabilisation are the same as those used in ukraine and elsewhere: insurrectionary strikes, internal and external media smear campaigns and, to top it all off, an attempted coup d'état. the right of peoples to self-determination requires us never to confuse state and government. i repeat, whatever our views on the government of president maduro, external interference is not justified.
mr president, we have two democratic issues before us today in order to change the way europe works. the first is that of a fairer representation of states. i think we all agree that we must ensure that the states are better represented in parliament. but a second topic is open to us today. it is the challenge of the single european constituency, the challenge of putting the common destiny of 500 million europeans into practice here and now. the fact that the europe of walls, barbed wire and nations of the far right is opposed to this change is consistent and logical. but i turn to my pro-european colleagues, those who defend a europe without frontiers for goods, for finance, for flows, those who want a free europe. how is it that, in the face of this europe, they do not want to set up a europe of democracy, a europe of citizens, a europe of the general european interest which is more important than the europe of national interests? we must build for the millions of people who elect us here this space of european general interest which transcends national interests, which is that of a common destiny beyond a national anthem, beyond a flag, which is that of a democratic space which wants to live proudly its values, proudly its ability to carry the strength of a united europe in the world. no, it is not paris, berlin or warsaw that should lead the european union, it is europe itself that must take matters into its own hands. do not be afraid, do not be afraid, make sure that we are proud to carry a united and diverse europe.
mr president, the european parliament currently has 751 members. brexit will free up the 73 seats of the united kingdom in 2019. i believe that redistribution of these 73 seats should be avoided to save money and the number of members should be reduced to 678. i am therefore opposed to the european union's plan to redistribute some of these 73 seats among the 27 member states. this project does indeed provide for five more seats for france, but i am not prepared to sacrifice my principles for such a dish of lentils, because this project runs deeply against my nationalist convictions by providing, on the other hand, for the creation of transnational lists. i am against transnational lists because they would be a further step towards the transformation of the european union into a federal state disconnected from national realities. we need a europe of nations, not a supranational europe.
mr president, our constitutional committee has proposed that a quota of 27 seats be reserved for transnational lists. this innovation seems absurd to me, but it can make democratic progress in europe possible under three conditions. the first is to take advantage of this number to specify in the electoral law that each list must include one citizen from each member state, and only one. the second is that each european political family is committed to putting its top candidate (spitzenkandidat) at the head of its transnational list. thirdly, and lastly, that each government should undertake to propose as the first choice for commissioner from its own country the citizen or citizen on the list who will win the most votes at home. in essence, the transnational list would thus be the list of candidate commissioners and it would be the popular vote that would designate the composition of the executive body and not the governments in place. the governments which propose the transnational list swear to us that it is for the good of europe, but is their democratic commitment prepared to go that far?
mr president, fellow rapporteurs, congratulations, because you are presenting a report to this house which allows us to achieve a new, fairer balance between the member states, which means more legitimacy for our institution. you are reducing the overall number of members, which is normal since unfortunately we are losing the united kingdom. you also ensure that no member state loses a seat, you provide for a reserve for future enlargements and you confirm the position of this parliament in favour of a transnational list, which we can finally implement on the occasion of the regrettable departure of the united kingdom. i regret that we have again missed the appointment of a permanent seat allocation mechanism. it's for our successors. with this report, it seems to me that the european parliament is sending the council a very strong double message. i invite us to look at the result of the roll call which will be made on article 3 of the annex, the one which allocates seats between member states. the proposal of our co-rapporteurs is not a bargain, it is balanced, and the council would be well advised to keep it as it is, without reopening the bargaining process between boyfriends. the other strong message is the issue of transnational lists. everyone is talking about more european democracy. the beating heart of this european democracy is in this chamber. what better translation of this democracy than transnational lists? however, i would urge those member states which support this idea of transnational lists to be as consistent as possible. the transnational lists go hand in hand with the commissioner or president candidates, the so-called spitzenkandidaten. i hope that this message will be strongly supported by this house and heard by the council.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by mentioning a number, a symbolic number which means very little to you, but which means a great deal to me. this number is 589, the number of my seat in the chamber. i didn't choose this place. in this house we are elected in our own countries, but we do not sit in separate countries. we sit by political affinity and, within our political groups, we do not sit by national delegation either, we sit in alphabetical order. while each member of parliament has his own nationality, each of us is also the representative of all the citizens of our union. that is why i defend the transnational lists, which are in the genes of the epp, to which i belong. i am in favour of our citizens being able to vote for a national list, supported by a national party, in the european elections and at the same time to vote for a european list, supported by a european party, on european political guidelines. giving our fellow citizens two ballots is not taking away their power, it is giving them twice as much. it's more democratic. as for the idea that transnational lists would favour the extremes, it reminds me of those doctors who try to cure fever by breaking the thermometer. no, it is by talking to our fellow citizens, trying to convince them and getting results that we will bring down the fever, not by preventing them from using two ballots.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i too would like to pay tribute to the work done by the rapporteur, mr gonzález pons. at the same time, if the subject were not so serious, the debate we had this morning would be laughable, because we are flexible, but the wide gap is difficult to maintain. we have been hearing for an hour and a half from the representatives of the right in this house that transnational lists would be a setback for european democracy, and you have just explained to us, quite rightly, that the fact that there is a candidate at the top of the list for europe on a european programme, which goes beyond national interests, would be a great and great step forward for europe! i share your opinion, mr gonzález pons, but we cannot at the same time say that we have a general european interest which is not the sum of national interests, as the commission is committed to and does, and at the same time oppose the creation of a european democracy, with candidates elected on the basis of a common european programme which goes beyond national logic. so i turn to you again. the vote has not yet taken place. defend, mr gonzález pons, the transnational lists, in the same way that you are defending today a candidate who is at the head of the european list. they are the democratic response to the fact that we have abolished frontiers for goods, for goods and for services.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the draft framework agreement which is before us today is an infamy. accepting it would make the european parliament more federal by strengthening the commission at the expense of the european council. first, it wants to allow commissioners to participate in the 2019 election campaign while continuing to hold office. this will distort the electoral competition because, by virtue of their functions, they will be able to make decisions to influence voters. the draft also obliges european political parties to present a spitzenkandidat, i.e. a candidate for the presidency of the commission. the word used betrays the german origin of this smoky idea. officially, the commission is being given a democratic veneer, as if this trick were enough to turn iron into gold. in reality, the commission will never be the equivalent of the government of a democratic state, because democracy requires a nation. there is no european nation, but european nations. only european states have a genuine democratic basis. the european union is based on a fraud. rather than persisting in this error, it would be better to rethink the construction of europe. it is a europe that respects the nations that the peoples need, not a supranational monster dominated by oligarchs and lobbies.
madam president, on the principle of the heads of list, yes, it is a democratic advance to ensure that the candidates for the presidency of the commission are not nominated behind closed doors by the heads of state or government, but by the political parties. i think this is a step in the right direction and that we need to take a further step to ensure that the leaders of the list are appointed by all the peoples of europe. that is why i think it is consistent to choose transnational lists which will go in this direction. this is the first step towards democracy, mr gonzález pons. let us go further and, in the next term, make sure that it is the people, and not just the political parties in their own corner, who can designate, through transnational lists, the person who will be responsible for leading the european commission.
member of the commission. – madam president, we all share the responsibility in the fight against money laundering and terrorism financing. this parliament has fought particularly hard with each upgrade of the anti—money laundering directive consistently to improve our legal framework in this respect. the delegated act you will vote on now concerns tunisia, a recognised, close and privileged partner of the european union. i want to stress that this act will not undermine any political or financial commitments by the eu in respect of tunisia. we recognise the progress tunisians have made in recent weeks and the commission will be very supportive of tunisia to help to deliver the action plan agreed between tunisia and the financial action task force in december. we are in close and intense contact with our tunisian friends in this regard. the commission stands ready to provide support so that tunisia removes the remaining deficiencies swiftly. once we see the work done, we will initiate the delisting process, with the aim of tunisia being delisted by the financial action task force and subsequently by the eu. i am convinced that, at the end of this process, tunisia will serve as a benchmark for other countries and i praise its efforts and engagement. lastly, let me confirm that the commission is working intensively on a systemic solution, so that the eu has its own autonomous analysis and list of high-risk third countries in order better to protect the eu and its citizens.
madam president, i am the author of the objection and the commissioner has just spoken. i would just like to say to our colleagues that the commissioner has added nothing to what the commission said to us in the joint libe-econ meeting and in the plenary on monday evening. i would like to add that the issue is not the sanctions... (the president cuts off the speaker's microphone) this is unacceptable pressure on the vote by the commission! (the president withdrew the floor)
the agenda calls for the topical debate (rule 153a) on the consequences of the widening of socioeconomic inequalities for european citizens (2018/2558 ((rsp)). i would like to inform you, ladies and gentlemen, that there will be no speeches on demand or 'blue card' questions during this debate.
madam president, commissioner, although europe is doing better and the indicators are returning to green, there are still many inequalities. 87 million europeans live below the poverty line, or nearly one in six europeans. to combat these inequalities, a multitude of actions are needed and the social base initiative is clearly a step in the right direction. i would like to stress the need to ensure that everyone has access to the skills needed to enter the labour market easily and sustainably, regardless of their geographical location or gender. to acquire this skill set and to make it fit for the needs of enterprises, we must now focus on learning, whether in initial or continuing training. because learning is the path to excellence, to learn a trade and thus to integrate more easily into companies and protect oneself more permanently from poverty. to convince young people to make it their first choice, governments must now change the image of the professions and better frame them. the logic which prevails at the time of orientation must also be changed. learning must become a chosen path, not a forced one. secondly, the apprentices need to be better accompanied throughout their learning journey, with a more personalised approach. finally, we must open up mobility to apprentices.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, nelson mandela said that as long as injustice continued, no one could rest. clearly, we are not ready to take a rest. yes, inequalities are worsening with a poverty risk rate now affecting a quarter of the european population. the first victims of this phenomenon are obviously the people themselves, but let us not be deceived, it is also the image of europe that is now at stake, because inequalities are the main cause of mistrust in the european construction. and it is in this house more than anywhere else that we must not only be aware of the divisions but also find ways of addressing them. i propose today a very concrete one: let us deepen europe where it is most useful. you know that the youth employment initiative, which helps all those of the new generation who are not in education or training, already applies to regions where the youth unemployment rate is above 25%. i am proposing that this european policy be extended in future to regions where the youth unemployment rate is higher, not 25%, but 20%. this would mean, for example, that in my country, france, where unfortunately everyone suffers from the growing inequalities caused by a particularly unfair government policy, the european aid programme would no longer apply to seven but to twelve regions. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we fundamentally believe in europe, because it is the union that makes strength, but if we want to give it legitimacy in the hearts of the people, let us quickly give it a much more social vocation and a ...
thank you, madam. we'll probably get back to it.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. thank you mr. president, according to the ngo oxfam (22/01/2018), 82 percent of the wealth generated in 2017 benefited the richest 1 percent of the population. 3.7 billion people have not improved at all. this should temper any triumphalism about the return of growth in europe, since this deepening of inequalities bears the seeds of a future economic crisis. worse, they are undermining our long-term prospects, hitting young people in the labour force first and foremost, whose risk of social exclusion increased between 2008 and 2016, as the international monetary fund pointed out on 24 january 2018. this situation, the result of an economic model that advocates capital and labour mobility that benefits only a minority, is caused in particular by the increase in housing prices, whose share in household budgets increased from 20.3% to 24.4% between 2000 and 2016 (oecd), which, combined with the stagnation of labour income, is not unrelated to the mass immigration experienced by europe. the commission's declarations of good intentions will be ineffective without calling into question the foundations of its economic model, the ultimate consequence of which will be the permanent disappearance of the middle classes.
the agenda calls for the debate on the question with request for an oral reply to the council on the reform of the electoral law of the european union, tabled by danuta maria hübner, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs (o-000099/2017 - b8-0002/2018) (2017/3019 ((rsp)).
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, corruption is literally killing people. it also kills more insidiously by deepening inequalities, undermining citizens' trust and undermining democracies, thus providing a breeding ground for extremists. despite the courage of its anti-corruption prosecutor's office, romania is regressing in the fight against this scourge and in the defence of the independence of its judiciary. the romanian parliament must give it up. the country is being ravaged by a handful of rulers driven by a desire to save their own skin. the leader of the ruling socialist party has already been convicted of electoral fraud and is currently under criminal investigation for misappropriation of eu funds. the european union must respond and support the country that will take over the eu presidency in 2019. let us not abandon the thousands of romanians and ngos who are shouting their slogans and expressing their thirst for justice and the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would first of all like to thank my colleague, mr eider gardiazabal rubial, who, with patience and determination, was able to build a solid majority in parliament and to make this position known during the trilogue. it was a long-term effort which has now borne fruit, and i would like to commend him for that. these reports are major steps forward in transparency and the way forward for the future of the european union. they will serve as an inspiration for future union policies and are already inspiring parliament's proposals for the next multiannual financial framework. first, of course, is the fight against tax fraud and evasion. it is unacceptable that public money can contribute to tax avoidance structures and aggressive tax planning. they are not only deep injustices, but they also contribute to the destabilisation of states and are obstacles in our fight against crime and terrorism. these reports will protect the european investment bank from any relationship with countries which do not cooperate with the union in tax matters. today's reports will serve as examples in this respect. these texts also provide an opportunity to set a new course and a new horizon for the european union's overall external development strategy. with the paris agreement, with the un sustainable development goals, the european union and the member states have made historic and major climate and civilisation commitments. we are now guarantors of these commitments and that these commitments do not turn into pious vows, advertising effects or false appearances. they must be translated rapidly into concrete and tangible developments, as these reports have succeeded in doing by including these commitments among the objectives of the union's external policy. but we must look beyond that and make sure that these objectives are the compasses for european policies and, above all, for the future multiannual financial framework. finally, let us be careful - and these reports do this - not to fall into the trap of using development policy to serve other objectives. no, it is not a policy of border control, migration management or readmission agreements. no, it is not a blackmail tool to finance corrupt regimes. on the contrary, development is a long-term policy towards our neighbours, our partners. these reports clearly recall this and we must make it a hard line for the programmes of the future multiannual financial framework.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all thank mr eider gardiazabal rubial for the excellent work he has done on this matter and for the negotiations, which have been both long and difficult. many of us here recognize the european investment bank as the main institution supporting public and private investment in the union. many of us also appreciate the important role it plays outside the european union through its external lending activities. but the european union's international standing and its concrete commitment to development cooperation beyond its borders cannot make us forget that its capacity for influence should also lie in the affirmation of its universal values of solidarity, respect for human and social rights and the exercise of democracy. reducing poverty in the world, promoting economic, social and environmental development, promoting democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights, yes, of course. but these priorities cannot be based solely on private financial commitments, the aim of which remains return and return on investment. i have long argued that the union should go beyond the simple guarantee of financing investments and should be able to put fresh money into projects. what is true within the european union is also true of its external interventions in countries like africa, which are also accompanied by great powers more generous than the european union. i believe that we must have full confidence in the european investment bank, but we must also give it more support. i believe that the next multiannual financial framework beyond 2020 should provide a first for public investment. that is my deepest wish. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. it is clear that the eib's money must go first i say this very clearly towards smes. i believe that the economic fabric of the european union is at stake.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr hoyer, you have an appointment in front of the european parliament. this is an important time for you to be held accountable and i would like to ask you about three things. the first, as the previous speaker has just mentioned, is how you assess your support for projects in the light of the commitments of the paris conference. but too often we still see a commitment, a financing from the eib which, in the end, finances fossil energy rather than renewable energy. i wonder if you should not commit yourself to this house to having a more explicit reporting strategy based on the sustainable finance criteria, in the spirit of the report that the high-level experts have just made, and to check with you how you intend to implement them in your institution. secondly, as regards taxation, you said you were available. but here again i think we need to have more specific commitments, because mere cooperation with international organisations, and in particular the oecd, which is an institution largely blocked by the us authorities, does not seem to me to be a sufficient guideline for the authorities in charge of a european institution. finally, thirdly, i would like to ask you about the reasons for an investment in greece, which led the eib to support, to the tune of eur 280 million, an airport built by fraport, some of whose activities were identified in the panama papers.
the agenda calls for a debate on the commission statement on the summertime arrangements (2017/2968 ((rsp)).
member of the commission. – madam president, the request on today’s opportunity to debate on eu summer time arrangements is very timely. the commission regularly receives questions about the time switch, including from members of the european parliament. some of those doubt that we need to switch time. as the commission committed before this house, my services have reassessed all available evidence. this includes the very balanced and complete overview made by the european parliament’s research services. the evidence is conclusive only on one point – that letting member states free to apply uncoordinated time changes would be detrimental for the internal market. i am therefore against such a solution, whether that means simply repealing the directive or allowing individual member states to opt out of the harmonised regime. conversely, the findings are inconclusive on human health. some people seem to suffer from the twice-yearly changes, but this might be well compensated for by the positive health effects induced by increased leisure and outdoor activities. it is unclear whether permanent summer time or winter time would be better for the human biorhythm. while i am open to consider the summer time issues further, i would like to stress an important point. there are two options that would allow for a continued harmonised approach: stop time changes for all member states by amending the directive, or leave the summer time rules unchanged. if one were to select the first option, it would also have to be established when to abolish time changes – after the last change to winter time, or after the last change for summer time. we discussed the summer time issues at the last council sitting in december at the request of one member state. i explicitly invited all ministers to let me know if any of them were in favour of changing the status quo. apart from the one member state that put the question on the agenda, nobody has done so until now. today it is your turn. i very much look forward to the forthcoming debate and welcome the vote on the resolution which will give parliament the opportunity to voice its opinion in this matter. i am sure it will give rise to valuable elements for reflection. all the more so, since the success of any potential commission proposals intended to modify the current rules by definition depends on the stance taken by the co-legislators.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the transport sector, the twice-yearly change of time has a double impact. the first is that the lack of sleep it causes in many of our citizens is a real problem for road safety. it is the cause of a large number of accidents involving particularly vulnerable road users, and i am thinking of pedestrians and cyclists. a second important point is that the european freight transport sector, which is not at a standstill, has to cope with additional administrative burdens linked to the change in time each time summer or winter time is changed. add to this the fact that today, yes, it is a public health problem for humans, there are negative effects on animal welfare. i think we have enough reasons to vote in favour of this resolution by the committee on transport and tourism of the european parliament to call on the commission to take up this matter and to abolish the clock change which no longer has any place.
we have received, in accordance with rule 123 (2), two motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place today. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on russia, the oyub titiev case and the memorial human rights centre (2018/2560 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place today.
the agenda calls for the debate on seven motions for resolutions on executions in egypt (2018/2561 ((rsp)).
author. madam president, all the ngos are alerting us. human rights have never been so violated in egypt. we are talking about more than 600 000 arrests since the military coup, more than 15 000 civilians tried by military courts, including more than 150 children, in the last three years. enforced disappearances, judicial executions, confessions under torture are the order of the day. rights defenders, journalists, lgbti people, ngos in general are prime targets, including when they dare to come and testify in the european parliament. the use of the death penalty seems to have no limits. terrorism, threats to national security, drug trafficking, murder, rape, kidnapping, the list sent by the egyptian embassy is long, far from international standards, it is a real counter-argument. how can democratic elections take place in such a context, when all credible candidates have been eliminated? egypt is sinking into a state of lawlessness and the european union is turning a blind eye in the name of a strategic partnership, which has yet to be demonstrated.
member of the commission. – madam president, the european union is definitely following the situation in egypt very closely. our position on the death penalty is well known. the european union opposes capital punishment under all circumstances and i completely agree with you that, for us, it represents an unacceptable denial of human dignity and integrity. at the meeting of the eu—egypt subcommittee on political matters, human rights and democracy, which took place in cairo last month, the union shared its concerns with the egyptian authorities. this was about the recent execution of more than 20 people, and we reiterated our principled position against the death penalty. we have called on egypt to commute death sentences whenever possible and to establish a formal moratorium with a view to the abolition of capital punishment. furthermore, we encourage egypt to take concrete steps to end military trials for civilians, and, in accordance with international standards for a fair trial, to retry in civilian courts citizens convicted by military courts. at the same time, i would like to mention a number of other issues concerning websites and human rights organisations. the eu raised, in its position for the eu—egypt association council of july 2017, clear concerns regarding the blocking of websites and the ongoing pressure on human rights organisations and defenders. that position was also expressed in the recent eu statement at the human rights council under item 4, as well as during the latest meeting of the eu—egypt subcommittee on political matters, human rights and democracy, in january. egypt is a key partner for the eu and a significant regional player. the sustainable stability and security of this country are crucial, not only for all egyptians but also for the entire region, for the european union and for our member states. it is our firm conviction that democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms are crucial for this purpose, especially in the context of the many challenges that egypt is facing. we appreciate the difficulties and we stand side by side with egypt in addressing them. this view is based on universal values and we regularly discuss these with our egyptian counterparts within the framework of the new egypt partnership priorities that were adopted in july 2017. the protection and promotion of human rights, democracy and the rule of law are guiding principles for eu external action. you can count on us to continue actively to promote and defend these principles in our engagement with egypt, as we do with all our neighbours and partners around the world. this is the situation, and we are trying hard to exert pressure in relation to these very important issues.
author. madam president, i want to say that haiti is not a country of shit. it was mr trump who described this country as such, as you know, when we visited it in december as part of the acp delegation. on the contrary, it is a very attractive country, where the european union is investing in interesting projects, but where poverty is omnipresent. the situation of young people is therefore terrible because there are between 150,000 and 500,000 young people who are enslaved within their families. how do you answer that? i fully support this text because it seems to me that it is possible to deal with this problem if we succeed in eradicating poverty, because it is very poor families who entrust their children to other families, which are a little less so. agriculture is the key to eradicating poverty. the european union is providing aid in this respect, but it is often directed at very large farms and does not reach the small ones, which can, precisely, fight poverty. as for the regime in place, i assure you that i have never seen more rotten than the parliamentarians, whether they are senators or deputies in the national assembly. the european union funds must therefore be redirected to support education, because this too passes through education. the more we help people to read and write, the easier it is for them to get out of poverty.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, while the republic of haiti is ravaged by poverty, corruption and child trafficking, the european union has granted €420 million to finance mainly nutrition and education programmes for children. the first thing to do is to ensure that these funds are used strictly for this purpose, to improve the lot of children. unfortunately, it is not enough for the european union, which has no legitimacy for this, to order the political actions to be carried out in this country for them to be realized. on the contrary, interference can have the opposite effect, and much worse for the most vulnerable. combating child slavery will require first and foremost the rapid ratification by as many states as possible of all international instruments on economic and social rights and protection against enforced disappearance and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, all of us who have been among the parliamentarians in haiti have left a part of our hearts in that country too. poverty brings misery, and unfortunately it is always the weakest who pay the price, especially children. so what do we do? on the one hand, i think that the state should be supported in its rural development and education policies. it is the basis for the development of this country, which was once the world's leading sugar exporter. so, with a double key to be sure of the assignment: on the one hand, the state and, on the other, the representatives of the european union. on the other hand, we must use our financial capacity: 4 000 billion has been created out of thin air in the european union by monetary creation, 18 000 billion in the world, and not a single euro in the development economy. it is absolutely necessary to launch a marshall plan for development.
mr president, i very much appreciate what you have just said. i simply regret that this freedom of expression is not respected within parliament itself. i particularly regret that the legal affairs committee responsible for examining these questions systematically waives the parliamentary immunity of minority members of parliament when it comes to expressing their dissenting opinion, which was not the case when i entered this institution where it was the rule that political opinion was exempt from any prosecution, as long as it was prosecuted by political opponents and expressed by the member of parliament. today we are faced with a very different situation, where, in the very halls of this european parliament, members are being punished, not because of the disruption they are causing to the work of the institution, but because of the remarks they have made, however questionable they may be, which seems to me to be completely contrary to the very essence of parliamentary life. i thank you for your time, mr president.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, all war is horrible, especially for the civilian population who suffer from it. the syrian regime has not been lenient with its enemies, but the myth of "moderate islamist rebels" must be put to rest. mohammed allouche, who holds ghouta civilians hostage with his group jaish al-islam, is no more moderate than the leaders of daesh or al-nusra. in her letter to us last night, mrs mogherini refers to nasser al-hariri. but what do you hope to negotiate with this new saudi puppet at the head of the "syrian national coalition"? saudi arabia, which is committing atrocities in yemen and is directly or indirectly supporting and financing a number of islamist factions. today, seven million people live in damascus, where many syrians have taken refuge. they too are being bombarded daily from the neighbourhoods or suburbs held by the islamists. the christian quarter of bab touma is one of the prime targets of the so-called "rebels". hospitals, schools and orphanages are the priority targets. last week, the red crescent headquarters received more than ten shells. among the victims was lama fallouh, the courageous opera director who continued to work for the preservation of these cultural offerings that the islamic barbarians honour. what western capital would allow itself to be bombed by a rebellious suburb? what can we do now to save as many civilians as possible? first, we must ensure the total defeat of the jihadists, eradicate them to the last man, and, in the interim, either establish humanitarian corridors to evacuate the inhabitants of ghouta or temporarily leave an exit for the islamists to return to idlib. this is exactly what was done in aleppo, a martyred city that is now rising from the ashes.
in writing. the war in syria has been going on for 7 years and humanitarian crises are continuing. after homs, aleppo is now the next to be bombed by the incessant bombardment of eastern ghouta and more than 400,000 civilians. this situation is no longer acceptable! the european union must act and implement the strategy it adopted in march 2017 in concrete terms. the member states and the european institutions must do everything possible to put an end to the massacres and to increase the pressure on the regime and its allies. the un security council resolution calling for a ceasefire is a first step in the right direction. it is now necessary to enforce it and to ensure that all the forces involved respect it. a humanitarian pause is necessary to protect civilians, allow safe delivery of humanitarian aid and evacuate the wounded. we europeans must promote mediation and appeal for an end to this escalation of violence. international law provides for the prohibition of the use of chemical weapons, safe access to humanitarian aid and the protection of civilians. it is time that it is respected and that civilians, especially women and children, cease to be the first victims of this bloody war.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the bulgarian presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the house, in the discussions now under way on the european union's finances, president juncker invited us a few days ago to get out of the accounting logic. of course we must maintain our budgetary seriousness and yet we must actually embrace the debate on the future of europe through this discussion. so let us get out of the sterile opposition, the competition between cohesion and agriculture or, worse still, situations where solidarity is sacrificed in the interests of security. let's ask ourselves what we want to do together; this parliament, with its 750 members, is about to do so. climate agreement, social pillar, convergence, youth, sustainable development goals, investments for the future: we have our way. it is not a question of cutting back on the cap or cohesion, but on the contrary, of leaving them the means to develop to achieve these objectives. the cap must become the instrument of food self-sufficiency which respects the soil, the water and those who work in it, and of course us who eat it. cohesion is our key to converging on development for all peoples, all regions, environmental and social development. i call on the council, although it is not present, to accept the outstretched hand of parliament. it increases the chances of his consent or, if you prefer, decreases the chances of his veto. let us agree with the bulgarian presidency on the details of our discussion method. let us wait for the commission's proposal on 2 may to reach a common agreement on a new multiannual financial framework.
mr president, democracy and respect for human rights are written into the dna of the european union. the european union must remain vigilant throughout europe and the world: the commission, the council and the european parliament must fight this battle together, alongside the united nations. the atrocities of war are obvious violations of human rights, and what is happening in syria is intolerable. we are ashamed of the images we see on television and we cannot ignore the disproportionate intervention of turkey. when you think how hard it was to negotiate a five-hour ceasefire for humanitarian purposes! and, as mentioned, the death penalty is unfortunately still in force in many countries. it is therefore time to propose binding solutions. let mankind be human at last! the proposals made by commissioner hogan are in the right direction. it is incumbent upon all of us, as a group, to make human rights our priority.
mr president, mr engel's report is a condensation of the double language and hypocrisy which is usually practised by the majority of this parliament to the detriment of the peoples it is supposed to protect. this astonishing text, which comes after many others, does not address, for example, the situation of whistleblowers such as julian assange, who is always threatened with arrest in london, or edward snowden, who, my dear colleagues, has found refuge only in moscow, or the situation of europeans who are becoming strangers in their own country every day, or the restrictions on freedom of expression in history, in morality, in politics, which have been multiplied by the memorial laws and which have led to hundreds of state persecutions, prosecutions, criminal convictions, including long prison sentences, in europe. no, you can't! it only addresses the complaints of the indigenous people who are becoming strangers in their own country every day and are victims of crime. in reality, this is indeed hate speech, but it is in the report, it is the hatred of european identity. it 's the hatred of everything we should defend ... (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. the tribunal for the former yugoslavia's contribution to international criminal law is invaluable, as it has served as a model for major international trials, such as those concerning the crimes in rwanda. its contribution to the work of remembrance is also considerable, in view of the thousands of pages of judicial debates which meticulously document the historical facts of a rare atrocity. however, while these missions were, for the most part, fulfilled, the political objective of this quarter-century legal saga, which was to reconcile the peoples of the balkans, ended in failure. the decisions of the tribunal have too often been regarded, rightly or wrongly, particularly by the serbian people, as the fruit of the justice of the victors. some spectacular achievements, such as that of the current prime minister of kosovo, ramush haradinaj, will be etched in their memories as a demonstration of this balance. there is no doubt that national passions are still very much alive in the western balkans. and while the european union this year is trying to relaunch the accession process, the persistence of deep territorial, ethnic and religious antagonisms makes this prospect ever more remote.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the former president of the brussels commission, mr barroso, was hired in 2016 by goldman sachs, the bank infamous for having caused the 2008 financial crisis. officially, he was not hired to lobby - which is hard to believe - but the ethics committee, sponsored by the commission, pretended to believe this nonsense. we must be very close to each other as eurocrats. surprise, mr barroso has just been caught in the middle of a conversation with commissioner katainen. the spectre of lobbying is reappearing and the explanations given by mr katainen a meeting of friends are hardly convincing. this event proves to me that the european union is the europe of the banks and the lawless businessmen. this is the kind of europe we need: a europe which respects nations and freedoms.
mr president, mr vice-president, i have the impression that, although you have spoken to us about transparency, you have in fact been in total confusion. you talk about transparency and coffee with a friend, but which friend is it? you cannot ignore that your responsibility as vice-president of the commission must make you wonder what kind of meetings and contacts you can have with mr barroso, who is being hired by goldman sachs to advise them on the brexit issue. and talk about what? trade and defense! would you tell me that there is no bridge between the two, between mr barroso's tenure at goldman sachs and the very subject you say you have discussed with him? so it may be over a glass of beer, but that does not change the fact that you have thereby crossed all the boundaries of what is possible within the framework of respect, independence and the minimum rules that should be those of the commission, in terms of the lobbying exercised by mr barroso, who has been caught red-handed.
mr president, i am well aware that promises only bind those who believe in them, but mr barroso had promised not to intercede on behalf of his new employer, goldman sachs. we had already been a number of consider that a commissioner - pardon me, a former president of the commission - did not have to go slippery, as we say in france, in such short time. today we learn that he went for a beer with a friend who happens to be, please, a vice-president of the commission - in fact, perhaps to talk business anyway. european citizens expect their leaders to be transparent in their relations with lobbies. i, like most of my colleagues, publish all the meetings i have had in the course of my duties. we have a duty to tell the truth, you, mr katainen, as i, jean-paul denanot.
madam president, commissioner, what has happened to these eight states? i heard the council tell us that the information had come in at the last minute and that it had to be adjusted. but still, in this case where europe wanted to set an example by adopting its own list of non-cooperative territories, you must admit that this is messy and does not correspond to the spirit of the work we have carried out in this parliament. the list which panama has just dropped cannot be the credible list we are waiting for to make europe the spearhead in the fight against non-cooperative states. and then we see clearly, with the recent developments around this list, especially when the council manages to ensure that none of the member states of the european union is on it, that there is still room for progress. what we are asking for today, what we are asking you, commissioner, is clarity, is to know to what extent the commitments are actually being kept. as such, it is not enough to remove a name from a list, we must be told why, how and after what checks a name is removed, and provide us with facts and means of verification that allow us to remain credible, otherwise the list will not be able to achieve its objectives.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, it is only natural that the european union, under the auspices of the council, should have a list of tax-non-cooperative countries. but what is much less normal in the scourge of european tax evasion is that the bleeding of tax revenues is at the very heart of the european union. exotic destinations are only at the bottom of the list: it is precisely because ireland, luxembourg or the netherlands allow multinationals to artificially concentrate their profits there that these sums can then be exported to other tax havens. the european commission bears full responsibility for this matter. secondly, the list of third countries misses the main target: the united states. i'm talking about the fact that the united states remains opaque and has therefore become the best offshore financial center. the united states is the only oecd country that has refused to commit to joint reporting and automatic exchange of information. however, with the departure of funds from switzerland, panama and the british virgin islands, which have signed up to transparency commitments, some $1.5 trillion of offshore funds from tax evasion will be located in the united states, mainly in three states: delaware, nevada and south dakota. the annual increase in these stocks would be of the order of 15%. the enl group unfortunately does not expect any effective action from the european union on the subject of tax havens. the european union is once again losing an opportunity to demonstrate its capacity for international cooperation and to assert its real credibility. contrary to mr moscovici's latest statements, this uncredible list is, once again, a blow to the head.
member of the commission. – madam president, i think we need to remind ourselves about the progress that the commission has made. the european union list is historic. for the first time it gives us the leverage to put pressure on third countries that are publicly recognised as tax havens. 55 countries have already committed themselves to reforming their tax systems. this is an unexpected result. of course, we’re not naive either, as commitments have been made and they must be kept, and there is a need to monitor the tax reforms of the grey list countries. once the letters of commitment are published, parliament will also follow their implementation. the work of the new taxe 3 commission will be fundamental in this sense. as you know, it was the initiative of commissioner moscovici to invite member states to publish the letters of commitment that allowed many jurisdictions not to be blacklisted for the time being. currently, as i said, 55 jurisdictions are listed separately, since they promised to address the deficiencies identified within agreed timelines, and the commissioner has asked for these promises to be made public. commissioner moscovici has also been clear that europe must apply to itself the same requirements of transparency that it requests of third countries. the publication of commitments made is in everybody’s interest, including the member states, including the third countries which show good faith. these guarantee the credibility of the list, and for civil society it will be very important for them to be able to see all of these particular issues that constitute what is not and what is on the list. to reiterate the point on the question of whether member states should be on the list: this ignores the objective of the list. member states have already adopted a large number of proposals to reform their tax systems, and other discussions are still ongoing. this list, on the other hand, is a tool of an external strategy aimed at promoting good fiscal governance in third countries, putting an end to tax dumping and creating a fairer international tax environment. at the end of this year, the commission will assess the actual results of those commitments made.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, before concluding i will try to respond to your questions. there are many, but i will try to organise them and focus your attention on three groups of questions: those related to panama; those related to the criteria; and those related to the inclusion of eu member states in the eu list. concerning panama, i would like to say that, like all other jurisdictions in annex ii of the council conclusions unanimously taken on 5 december last year, panama made sufficient commitments at high political level to address the deficiencies identified by our experts, and this is a positive development. in any case, the delisting from annex i does not mean that panama is not monitored any more. it is simply not considered as non-cooperative any longer, but it continues to be under examination. at the end of this year, ministers will discuss the results of the monitoring exercise for all countries concerned. concerning the criteria, the criteria as well as the sanctions are available in the council conclusions from december last year. this is a public document, because we also put high emphasis on transparency, credibility and accountability. concerning the monitoring of eu member states, i have to say that the mandate for this exercise of the european union list was to look at third countries, because member states are already under permanent scrutiny as far as any harmful practices are concerned. every six months, a report is made to the ecofin council by the code of conduct group, and these reports cover both member states and third countries. they are also publicly available on the council’s website. to conclude, i would like to assure you that the council will regularly update the european union list of non-cooperative jurisdictions. this does not mean that it will be shorter in the future. jurisdictions that do not meet their commitment by the agreed deadline – the end of 2018 or 2019 – will be listed. the criteria and the geographical scope are likely to be subject to updates. the next ecofin council on 13 march will also return to this issue. work on further coordinated defensive measures will also continue in parallel. some are in the tax area and concern member states’ competences, but as you are aware, others are foreseen in various eu legislative initiatives.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, first of all i wish to thank the rapporteur, mr erdős, for his report on the apiculture sector, which clearly highlights the important issues that have been outlined in relation to the bee sector and which can certainly influence the discussions in the framework of the future common agricultural policy (cap). the commission shares the view of the european parliament with regard to the importance of bees as pollinators for our environment and for agriculture, as well as the role that beekeeping could have in certain rural areas. it is precisely for this reason that the cap currently contributes 50% of the funding of our national apicultural programmes, which are drawn down by member states with a total eu budget of eur 36 million per year. the report suggests that this level of support should be increased. of course, everyone will want to increase their budget, but these are matters for discussion in the context of the multiannual financial framework (mff) and the cap reform. the commission is also developing an eu pollinators initiative to establish an integrated approach to tackle the decline of pollinators. the aim is to raise the political profile and increase the effectiveness of existing eu policies for pollinators. the main objective of the national apicultural programmes is to improve the conditions for the production and marketing of honey. given the importance of bees, not just as honey producers but also as pollinators, the commission supports them by other means as well. under the first pillar of the cap, 30% of the direct payments are linked to environment-friendly farming practices, while pillar ii supports agri-environment climate measures which also contribute to improving the environment for bees. while the report suggests stronger commission involvement in various research and education projects in the eu, we should also keep in mind the value of the national programmes, which are adapted to the needs of specific member states. nevertheless, the commission is closely involved in research activities in relation to apiculture, including the eu pilot project on breeding and selection program for research in the resistance against the varroa mite. this was recently initiated by parliament, and work was done by the joint research centre on methods for detection of honey adulteration. the commission also established, and continues to cofinance, an eu reference laboratory for bee health, and it frequently liaises with the european food safety authority for scientific advice on various areas such as pathogens or pesticides. the commission is well aware of the concerns about adulteration of honey, in response to which the directorate-general for health and food safety (dg sante) launched an eu-wide coordinated control plan on honey quality in 2015. the preliminary results indicate that adulteration, for example by adding sugar, is not only a problem with imported honey but also takes place within the european union itself. the commission is committed to ensuring that honey put on the market complies with eu standards and it is currently analysing how best to do this, although the commission is not convinced that new rules on origin labelling for honey could solve the problem. the cap also provides many possibilities for promoting honey. member states can include in their national apicultural programmes measures such as market monitoring or enhancement of product quality, with a view to exploiting the potential of products on the market. in addition, the sector is eligible for most promotion topics in the internal market and in third countries, and honey can be promoted under the eu quality scheme, either because of a specific link to a certain region or because it is produced in a specific traditional manner. the eu school fruit, vegetables and milk scheme that applies from 1 august 2017 gives member states the possibility of including honey in educational measures to be carried out in order to reconnect children with agriculture. the scheme aims to promote healthy eating habits and requires member states to ensure the appropriate involvement of their national authorities responsible for health and nutrition in drawing up the list of products to be provided to schoolchildren. several member states, namely france, italy, bulgaria, czech republic, greece, lithuania, austria, romania and slovenia, include honey in these educational measures. mr erdős’ report accurately reflects the importance of the beekeeping sector, and i have outlined some of the issues on which we can do more together. perhaps many people are not aware of these particular measures which can be exploited to even better potential by member states than they are now, through the apicultural programmes. i think it is clear that the sector is already well integrated into the cap through these measures and it also benefits from targeted, as well as general, measures. i acknowledge that the report suggests we can do more and provide additional support, so we welcome the constructive suggestions from parliament and i am sure they will provide food for thought, and honey, as the commission prepares its legislative proposals for the cap post-2020.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles. madam president, commissioner, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i would like to sincerely thank the rapporteur, mr erdős, for his work, which is in the right direction in calling on the commission and the member states to ban neonicotinoids. the problem is that this ban is conditional not only on laboratory tests but also on field tests. the number of such cases is considered too small, which has the effect of delaying a necessary global ban. this debate is eerily similar to the one on glyphosate, for which we are promised a ban that is continually postponed. furthermore, the commission considers in its written reply of 1 september 2017 that neonicotinoids used in greenhouse crops are not dangerous for bees and therefore cannot be banned completely. these substances, even when used in greenhouses, are persistent in the soil and also in water. this is a real danger, since these neonicotinoids will not disappear for several years. in 2015, efsa confirmed that the use of this type of pesticide in the form of leaf spraying poses a risk to bees. today, a highly anticipated efsa report confirms the 'high' risk assessments for three neonicotinoids currently restricted for use in the european union. in order to avoid any misuse or illegal use of these substances and to halt the decline of bees, a general ban is therefore an absolute emergency. this is precisely the subject of my amendment which will be put to the vote tomorrow in plenary. it's about the future of humanity.
madam president, first of all i would like to congratulate and thank mr erdős for this report and to welcome the work done by mr momchil nekov on behalf of the socialist group on a subject of the utmost importance. bees are disappearing at an alarming rate. yet, as many have said, pollination plays an absolutely vital role in our food security and biodiversity. land use change and intensive farming practices seem to me to bear a heavy responsibility for the decline of european bee populations. there is an urgent need to move towards a model that is less dependent on pesticides and insecticides and that places greater value on ecosystem services. this development requires an urgent reform of the cap, which we want to be more oriented towards agro-ecology. we must help to improve the structure and professionalisation of the beekeeping industry and increase research to combat pests such as varroa destructor. finally, i call for the future agricultural policy to identify honey as a priority and to be able to exploit the many medicinal properties of honey and pollen.
in writing. with this own-initiative report, the european parliament is once again showing leadership in protecting bees and is rising to the challenge. the decline in bee numbers in europe is reaching record levels and calls for a coordinated approach to address the multiple factors that lead to pollinator mortality. local initiatives for bees are proliferating, but european and national policy objectives are still far below expectations. budgets today are ridiculous compared to the agricultural and ecological services of pollinators, such as bees. as president of the european bee week, beeweek, i am delighted that this report builds on the work we have been doing since 2012. we propose concrete solutions to the main challenges facing the apiculture sector, in particular on bee health, pest control, research programmes, protection of products from the hive, labelling or the control of adulterated honey. i call on the european commission and the member states to take up these proposals and present ambitious policy objectives for the apiculture sector without delay.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, mr rapporteur, mr vice-president, the banking union is a young but very good invention. it is worth recalling its fundamental objectives: to ensure the soundness of banks and their ability to withstand future crises, to avoid the use of taxpayers' money when banks are in difficulty, to harmonise the rules and, last but not least, to strengthen the financial stability of the euro area and, by extension, of the european union. the single supervisory mechanism and the single resolution mechanism have only recently been established and can therefore be improved. there is room for improvement in particular as regards the transparency, predictability and legibility of decisions. the third pillar of this banking union is the european deposit insurance scheme. work on this is necessary, even if it takes time to think about it. it is useful to arrive at a system which encourages banks to act in a virtuous manner - as the rapporteur has just pointed out - and which ensures the stability of the system for the benefit of all. i would also remind you that the banking union is open to those who have not yet adopted the euro as their currency. some members who are not yet part of the euro area are hesitant, and i do not hesitate to say to them: come, you are welcome to participate actively in strengthening financial stability and therefore, by implication, the stability of the european union as a whole.
mr president, commissioner, banking union is the umbrella of the concept of risk reduction, risk sharing. i sometimes get the impression that the balance is out of balance and that we forget to assess all the efforts that have already been made in terms of risk reduction, including in the way in which the european union will integrate new international concepts to enable it to meet its commitments, such as absorbing losses in the famous tlac or lowering the domestic value of non-performing loans (npls), on which we are waiting for new proposals. but this annual report is now a meeting point, and perhaps it will help us to identify three areas where more needs to be done. first, as we have said here, the missing pillars. i would like to point out that the commission has already made a number of proposals in this area, and i would like to ask the commissioner to give us an opportunity to make a few comments on the proposal. but there is also the famous 'budgetary support mechanism' on which progress could be made with the transformation of the european stability mechanism, but we invite you to be vigilant so that this is done according to the community method, of course. and then there's the question of the link between banking sovereigns and states. we believe that banking union should enable us to make use of the so-called derogations which allow the benefits of the banking union to be used. finally, a third area of work is open to us following the latvian case and the collapse of ablv bank, which show us how we cannot have a safe and stable banking union without looking at the fiscal dimension and in particular the impact of the fight against money laundering on the stability and systemic nature of banks.
the rapporteur. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, since the last european elections, we are few in this house to have devoted ourselves to the fight against tax evasion. it must be admitted that this is not easy, because in four years we have seen many scandals, many revelations and we sometimes feel that our work, our proposals, everything we are trying to do with the commission does not allow us to move forward very quickly. and that is the truth, unfortunately. but that is also why, whenever we have small victories, we must draw from them a little courage, a little energy and, with this text, it is a small victory, a victory, albeit modest, but a victory nonetheless and we must act. a victory first over white collar crime, fraudsters, professional profit-leakage planners and those who obviously help them, i.e. the middlemen. there is - as you know, ladies and gentlemen - a real industry of tax optimisation, with discreet companies, and we ask them to be accountable for the arrangements they design, advise and market. with this so-called reform of the accis, all installations that do not meet even one possible criterion of aggressive tax optimisation will have to be reported to the tax authorities, under penalty of sanctions. it is also a victory over the unfair competition - the tax competition - which member states sometimes unfortunately engage in. all information collected will be automatically exchanged between the member states of the european union. any progress in this area is welcome, because we know that governments are engaged in a bitter race to the bottom in terms of taxation and only exchange useful information if they are forced to do so. well, they'll be forced to stay here, and that's a good thing. finally, it is a small victory for the european parliament, more specifically, because through the unanimous vote of the committee on economic affairs, which has substantially improved the text, we prove that our institution is one of the most advanced on the question of tax evasion. you will tell me that this is normal, since we are perhaps the institution that takes the sovereign, the people, public opinion most into account. on this subject, european society is tired of inequalities in taxation and is also rightly disgusted by all the scandals to which i have referred. people are watching closely what is happening in brussels on this issue and that is why we are and must always be in tune with popular expectations on this matter. finally, it is a technically solid victory, since the accis directive, as it is put to the vote today, is considerably enriched, and i thank, of course, all the fictitious rapporteurs and all the elected representatives who have taken part in this work. first of all, we have an obligation to notify the tax authorities of dubious tax arrangements, an obligation which will concern not only tax advisers but also auditors. for me, this is very important, because it includes the big firms that are systematically involved in tax scandals and are referred to as the "big four". you also have the profit leakage that sometimes continues through old installations that are still functional, and we have obtained, we ask, that all installations, even created several years ago, be notified as long as they are still in force. finally, and this is very important, we have expanded the indices of aggressive tax optimisation so that the radar is, if i may put it that way, as complete as possible. so we go ahead, we make proposals, we work with the commission. there is still a lot to do, but this is a small victory, a step in the right direction, which should be welcomed. i would like to thank once again the members who have dealt with this matter, and in particular the fictitious rapporteurs, and i would ask you to vote massively - if not unanimously - on this text, which is going in the right direction.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, although it is strange to have a debate in plenary without the council and the commission, let me congratulate the rapporteur, because he has brought some very significant advances to this legislative proposal, and all the repeated scandals we have seen show us how tax evasion too often involves the setting up of complex crossborder arrangements. these exist only because intermediaries, the ones we are interested in today, whether lawyers, accountants, bankers, tax advisers or wealth managers, imagine them and sell them to multinationals, those who can afford such a wide range of services. is it normal that whistleblowers should face justice for exposing fraud, while those who conceive them would be protected? by requiring the competent national authorities to declare, under penalty of sanction, crossborder tax arrangements in place for their clients, the text discourages the implementation of such dubious mechanisms which reflect a desire to circumvent the law or to reduce the amount of taxes owed. national authorities will also have to exchange the information collected, thus facilitating cooperation between member states within a common european legislative framework. it is now up to them to take responsibility and we believe that this is an important step towards the implementation of real tax fairness in the european union. we are of course waiting for the member states to take the lead. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by a blue card (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". i believe that mr rübig has used a 'blue card' to make a plea in favour of smes, which is irrelevant to the object of this proposal, except in facilitating whistleblowing and removing the role of intermediaries which favours large multinationals, on the contrary, obviously, this will restore healthy conditions of competition and more favourable to smes.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, thank you for your remarks, which show that there is almost unanimity in this house, namely that tax inequalities threaten our democratic pact, that there is no equality of citizens without equality in taxation and that there is no stable state and a stable and respected europe that annually allow tens of billions of euros of public revenue to escape. so i have heard the comments of some and, to quote a colleague, it is obviously not a question of stigmatising professions, but of trying to dissuade some of these professionals from engaging in what i have called a 'tax evasion industry', or at least tax optimisation, which we all denounced this morning. commissioner moscovici was inviting us to take stock of the progress made in the last three years. it is true that the commission and parliament are trying to work at their own pace to find answers. it is also true, even if - let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen - the council is not helping us much and we will not have to relieve the pressure on member states which are rarely ahead of the curve on this issue and rarely want to anticipate a number of debates. i hope that this text will be voted on with the largest possible majority so that we can send - to use the commissioner's words - a political signal, that of the will to restore equality of citizens and businesses in tax matters.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, madrid, london, paris, we have been waiting for this report for more than ten years. we must remember that terrorist attacks in europe have killed 2,400 people since 2001. that the annual revenue of daesh is 3 billion dollars? 3 billion dollars! of course we must make sure that we do not participate in this financing, particularly by buying oil. what do you suggest? what do you propose? we must entrust our security to the european institutions and the banking institutions. of every 100 dollars laundered worldwide, the banks intercept only 80 cents - the price of a wand - thus demonstrating their impotence. as for the european institutions, they support - and i quote mrs mogherini, the high representative of the european union for security policy - that political islam has its place in europe. political islam has its place in europe. do you really want to entrust them with our safety?
this concludes voting time.
madam president, why do we want to punish poland? because it limited the term of office of the supreme court judges, as many states do. because poland - and this is a crime in the eyes of the majority of this parliament - respects the life of the unborn child. because poland has a conservative government, which is its right. because poland, which was the victim of german aggression, wants the concentration camps on its territory to be described as 'camps in poland' but not 'polish camps', to say the least. and it is clear that the majority of this parliament, by supporting the commission's manoeuvres, is giving the most cynical example of the kind of protectionism that the eurocracy would like to apply against the freedoms of the peoples of europe. i cry out as i did in the days of napoleon iii, a frenchman to the tsar: "long live poland, long live free poland".
i would draw your attention, ladies and gentlemen, to the fact that we have to finish at 1.30 p.m. and that there are still many explanations of vote to be made. so we will probably have to ignore the latter, at least verbally.
madam president, the engel report is a truly totalitarian report, which consists in calling any complaint from the minority 'hate speech' and the speech of the oppressive majority of these institutions 'love speech, justice, charity, benevolence'. but wouldn't it be better to sweep outside his door? would it not be better to ensure that the most basic rights are respected within this institution, this european parliament? i will take my own example: at the request of secretary-general welle, a civil servant from the politicized circles of this house, i am being taxed at almost 300 000 euros, a very large sum. i am deprived of three quarters of the emoluments which should have been used to secure my mandate for the perfectly grotesque reason that my assistant, for six years, worked not only with me but also with my colleague jean-marie le pen. neither my assistant nor i have at any time been heard by secretary-general welle, the quaestors or the bureau of which you are a member. start by respecting human rights inside parliament.
i regret to inform you that we will not be able to take oral explanations of vote on the reports by mr sander loones, mr nart and mrs bilbao barandica and mrs vallina. explanations of vote, of course, which can be tabled in writing. we have a time problem and we can't take them.
madam president, i have indicated twice that we have a very tight schedule and that we will therefore be forced to stop at 1.30 p.m. we stop at 1:36 and i think i've warned you. but i'm glad you're able to explain. they will be recorded in the minutes of this sitting, no problem. i'm sorry, but we have this important constraint and we can't go over it.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
mr president, i think we have been very attentive to what you have said about equality between men and women and against sexual harassment. i would simply like to point out that since you have mentioned the situation of the civil servants of this parliament, there is one matter which is extremely worrying. a french official in the general secretariat had made extremely serious accusations, perhaps totally unfounded, against a very senior official of this parliament, whom i do not want to name here. it so happens that the message she sent to all members has been deleted by the administration of this parliament, which is an absolutely unacceptable intrusion into our personal mail. i have all the facts of this case at your disposal. i think that if the accusations of this french official were unfounded, it was, of course, perfectly legitimate for the person in question - the very senior official in question - to respond or for the president to address a reply to the members of parliament. i think, however, that whatever the substance of this case, it was completely inappropriate and unacceptable that the computers of all members were visited in order to have the complainant's message deleted. i wanted to remind you.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, there is one principle that is indisputable: it is within the power of a president to make appointments to highly strategic and political posts. this is the consequence, the result, of a democratic election. i thank you, commissioner, for giving us all the explanations, because any appointment must not be a seizure of power by the top administration, in defiance of the rules of procedure or through small arrangements between friends, because in that case, what better way to feed the anti-elite discourse, what better way to give fodder to the eurosceptics and to maintain the myth of a technocratic europe run behind closed doors? in 2014, our group committed itself to a europe that is more political, less technocratic, more transparent, closer to the citizen, with a political commission that takes the lead over the administration. unfortunately, the case we are debating tonight leads our fellow citizens to believe that unelected officials would de facto take over the reins of the institution, under the nose and beard of commissioners who were informed at the last minute. frankly, we're shooting ourselves in the foot! the legitimacy of the commission's senior officials, whose competence is not in doubt, would be strengthened by transparent and fair appointment procedures. this case discredits an entire institution, which we know is made up largely of talented professionals committed to advancing the european project. the european institutions do not belong to senior civil servants, they belong to european citizens. the former are there to serve the latter and not to serve themselves, for which the commission is responsible to this parliament. it would be good to remember that.
mr president, mr oettinger, you are really treating us like children by not answering the real questions about the appalling appointment of mr martin selmayr, who was appointed deputy secretary-general and then secretary-general in one day. the commission had a long debate on this, its spokesman told us, at a meeting on 21 february which began at 9.30 a.m., with the press conference to announce the appointment having started at 9.39 a.m. for a meeting at 10.30 a.m. less than two candidates, because if there were no candidates, the appointment would have been completely illegal. it took a man and a woman. a woman was therefore asked to be a candidate, mrs clara martínez alberola, mr selmayr's assistant. she was willing to do so, and was rewarded for it, and withdrew her application as soon as the registration period was over, leaving mr selmayr alone on the track. who are you going to make believe that this procedure is regular? there is also one last question, a very important one: how is it that the 27 commissioners have been so benevolent towards these indecent manipulations of the procedure? is this because mr selmayr has proposed to increase the transition allowance for former commissioners from 40% to 65% of the last basic salary? is it because he promised all the former commissioners an office in the commission, a car with a driver, two assistants, so that they would receive double or triple what they are getting now? this is a question that is important for you to answer.
mr president, mr vice-president, may i read to you again article 4 of the staff regulations of officials of the european union? any vacancy in an institution shall be brought to the attention of the staff of that institution as soon as the appointing authority has decided that the post should be filled. why has the post of secretary-general not been published, contrary to what you have reiterated here today? why did ms. clara martinez withdraw her candidacy before she was even heard? where is the hearing of a man and a woman in your proceedings? how come the staff were not informed in time and at the right time? mr vice-president, you are so keen on the observance of all the rules, how can you be satisfied with this flagrant violation of the letter and spirit of the law? how can you take the risk of engaging this commission which president juncker wanted as the commission of last resort, which today, including in its ranks, feeds eurosceptic speeches, when we need it to be the guardian of the treaties? how can you violate the spirit of the institutions that those who work there are not there to serve themselves but to work in the service of the citizens - those we represent? we must serve the citizens in an exemplary way, here in the face of the deviations within the european commission, but we will of course also have to do so with equal vigilance in our own institution, we know that well. so we say to you, mr vice-president: stop with the falsehoods! whatever mr selmayr's qualifications, he did not have the legal qualifications in terms of employment to hold this office and your ability to promote women by asking this deputy secretary-general to withdraw her candidacy, even before hearing her is not worthy of promoting gender equality.
mr president, yes, the appointment of mr selmayr as secretary-general of the european commission is an outrage. scandalous because this support for mrs merkel is added to the long list of germans who have been wrongly appointed to key posts in the european institutions. scandalous because this totally arbitrary appointment, in defiance of all the recruitment rules in force in this institution, consecrates the triumph of the bureaucratic superstructure over the political leaders that we are. while the european union is constantly teaching the world about human rights, respect for the rule of law and democracy, the former prime minister of a tax haven wants to impose his chief of staff as head of the european executive. instead of coming here to explain himself, mr juncker sends mr oettinger, the german commissioner also chosen by mrs merkel. what a disrespect for parliament and the citizens we represent! it is with the same contempt that the unelected bureaucrats of the commission, who have exorbitant power, allow themselves to challenge the decisions of democratically elected governments, such as those in poland and hungary, which are both legal and legitimate.
mr president, mr oettinger, we are taught in law schools that fraud corrupts everything. when you try to make this parliament believe that appointing someone as deputy secretary-general for three minutes so that you can escape the rules of appointment from outside and be appointed by the inner circle is a normal procedure for becoming secretary-general at the head of 33 000 people, i have no lessons to learn from you, mr oettinger, nor any advice. i don't know. you think we're fools, you're lying. no independent authority, no independent authority, the one we defend, would accept to be treated in this way. you should be ashamed of yourself! what you are doing for europe, mr oettinger, and your whole commission, is worse than what all the nationalists, all the extremists and all the eurosceptics are doing. you are destroying the european project and european democracy.
madam president, at a time when the world is in turmoil, when the united states is returning to its conservatism, to its protectionism, when south korea is meeting north korea, when putin and russia are rearming, when bashar al-assad is continuing to intervene indiscriminately, when erdoğan is continuing with the kurds, what are we doing here? we are talking about the inability of the president of the european commission to respect the rules he himself has enacted and i do not even want to talk about our president of the parliamentary assembly, who is practicing the corsican tango for him - the corsican tango is two steps forward and three steps back - since he told us just six months ago, 'i will be president of a parliament and i will never be prime minister'. he had to be seduced by the italian elections and put himself forward as prime minister. the world laughs at us, my fellow parliamentarians. today, it is our responsibility to determine what role the european continent can play at intercontinental level, instead of spending hours and hours debating topics that are not up to the global challenges that must animate us.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for the work they have done. equality between men and women is one of europe's values and we must use all the tools at our disposal to promote it, including our trade policy. international trade has varying effects on men and women, and it is essential that everyone benefits equally. gender equality needs to be taken more into account in the eu's trade policy, starting with the implementation of impact studies, and data needs to be collected on this issue. on the other hand, the instruments we have at our disposal, such as the generalised system of preferences or the sustainable development chapters of the agreements, need to better integrate gender equality and we need to ensure their full and effective implementation. i also welcome the european commission's initiative to include, for the first time, a specific chapter on this subject in the modernisation of the agreement with chile. it is essential that our trade policy contributes to combating the exploitation of women, improving their working conditions and strengthening corporate social responsibility. in line with the wto declaration on the role of women in trade and a few days after the international day of women's rights, i am pleased that parliament is sending a strong message on this subject.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when president trump is introducing protectionist measures on steel and aluminium, at a time when it is agreed that free trade agreements are harmful to our livestock, agricultural and sugar sectors and to the health of our citizens, you, ladies and gentlemen, are making us look like the byzantine clergy who were still discussing the sex of angels when the turkish forces were about to bring down constantinople, a report on gender equality in trade agreements, in a europe with almost 20 million unemployed, a europe with a negative trade balance and where our traditions and our environment are threatened. the report also contains measures of common sense and a clear assessment of the consequences, particularly in the area of free trade agreements and trade relations in general. so if we agree to denounce the risks of globalism, its social and economic violence, let us defend our industries, our traditions, our environment, our consumers with the same energy.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, why are we meeting again to discuss the istanbul convention? i would have liked to say that we are here to welcome the ratification by the european union and all the member states. i would have liked to say 'yes, the fight against violence against women is a top priority because these are serious human rights violations'. but no, the reality is much more disappointing. we are here because of a movement of rejection and protest around this convention. the slovak prime minister openly declares that he refuses to ratify it because it would be contrary to his constitution and the bulgarian government - while bulgaria holds the presidency of the council - withdrew its ratification bill a few days ago. it's a shame. national debates have been distorted by fallacious arguments and misconceptions. no, the term 'gender' does not contain any hidden ideology, but it is used to describe the phenomenon of gender-based violence that targets women because they are women. let us not be fooled: the refusal to legislate on violence against women is a symptom of a general regression of our rights in europe which also affects sexual rights. how many barriers do women face today when they want to have an abortion? i am addressing the eleven member states which have not yet ratified the convention or, worse, which refuse to do so. i resent your choice and strongly denounce any backsliding or backsliding. the whole of the european parliament calls on you to apply this effective legislation which is simply intended to protect the victims and to prosecute those responsible. the result will be a more peaceful, just and protective society. as for ratification by the union itself, the negotiations failed because the council was relying on legal arguments which were not well founded. i ask you, mr vice-president, to stand firm so that this whole process can really help the lives of women all over europe.
in writing. all eu member states have signed the istanbul convention, but 11 have yet to ratify it. on 22 february 2018, slovak prime minister robert fico stated that he would not ratify the istanbul convention because he considered it to be contrary to the definition of marriage in the slovak constitution (a union between a man and a woman). on 7 march 2018, bulgaria, as the president of the council of the european union, decided to follow in the footsteps of its neighbour slovakia. this opposition is all the more worrying as the negotiations for ratification by the european union have already been under way for several months. the istanbul convention is the first legally binding international treaty and the best tool to prevent violence, protect victims and bring perpetrators to justice. impunity is no longer tolerable, and any blockage or retreat is unacceptable. in order to enable a coherent framework to be established to combat violence against women across europe, all member states and the union must ratify this convention as soon as possible.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the national front members will vote against this report on the delivery of parcels between member states for social reasons. reducing the cost of deliveries at all costs will be to the detriment of the working conditions of employees, who are already largely victims of hidden work, the abuse of service providers and seconded work. the commission also has to ensure that the public service structures are financially balanced, which is only possible through the simultaneous delivery of parcels. reducing margins and increasing competition will inevitably harm it. the wishes of the so-called left, who are in favour of economic liberalism, will of course be used as a pretext to vote in favour of universal service. finally, we are against it because, from an ecological point of view, the intensification of transport links will increase polluting emissions, even though, in the transport sector, this argument is being pushed back to the point of nausea in favour of new taxes. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that it is not able to meet the needs of the people of europe.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 march 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by mr ujhelyi on the european strategy for cooperative intelligent transport systems (2017/2067 (ini)) (a8-0036/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 march 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by michela giuffrida on the regions lagging behind in development in the european union (2017/2208 (ini)) (a8-0046//2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 march 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by ángela vallina on the role of the union's regions and cities in the implementation of the paris agreement of cop 21 on climate change (2017/2006 (ini)) (a80045/2018).
member of the commission. – madam president, madam rapporteur, honourable members, on behalf of the commission i would like to thank you all at the european parliament for preparing this important report. when i say important, i mean mostly politically important, because it calls for further mobilisation in the battle against climate change and because it puts some national actors on the front line, of course alongside the member states. this is, indeed, where regions and cities should be when it comes to finding solutions for climate change mitigation and adaptation. they have proved to be ambitious, forward-looking and innovative, so we need all of them on board. this is why is the commission welcomes parliament’s call to national governments to further support climate and energy initiatives at local and national level. it mirrors the efforts made at european level to ensure that low carbon and climate-resilient targets are well embedded in all our policies. as a matter of fact, it seems these efforts have paid off. climate mainstreaming: the target of at least 20% of the eu budget has helped us to deliver on the paris agreement and on our climate and energy objectives. for instance, in the 2014-2020 programming period, close to 25% of the european structural and investment funds will be dedicated to climate-related actions such as energy efficiency, renewables and water retention measures. we take good note of your call for the next multiannual financial framework to be even more ambitious in achieving the objectives of the paris agreement. i can assure you, on behalf of the commission, that we will do our utmost to ensure that projects financed by the eu budget are in line with these objectives. there will be no place for ‘business as usual’. in the meantime, the commission will continue to support cities and regions through the several ongoing initiatives. i have in mind, for example, the eu covenant of mayors, which has been contributing to our climate and energy objectives since 2008. indeed, eu covenant cities have already reduced their emissions by 23% and have pledged to reach –27% by the year 2020. i also have in mind the urban agenda for the european union, which was mentioned here by ms spyraki and other honourable members of the european parliament. as you may know, twelve partnerships have been put in place under the urban agenda, including on climate adaptation and energy transition. here, cities, regions, member states and the european institutions are currently working together on action plans to improve legislation, increase knowledge and use european funds more effectively in this area. i had the pleasure, for instance, ms ward, to meet the mayor of manchester last week, and i was very impressed by his pro-european approach and by his active enthusiastic work, hand-in-hand, alongside other cities. congratulations to all the cities. i think it is very important. he was present at another initiative we had last week on regions in transition, and manchester was selected as one of these industrial transitions. to conclude, i would like to mention that this year is the year of so-called talanoa dialogue. this word is from fiji, describing an inclusive and open exchange, and, in preparation for the next un climate conference (cop24), which will take place in poland in december, local and regional authorities have this opportunity to share their successful policies and good practices through this talanoa dialogue. i encourage all stakeholders to use this platform, and i think it will be a valuable contribution to our collective work. thank you to ms vallina for this report and thank you for your views and for your attention.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 13 march 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 163).
madam president, i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues to the events provided for under article 17 of the treaty. this article organises the dialogue, which is supposed to be open and transparent, between our institutions, on the one hand, and religious organisations, on the other, but also philosophical and non-confessional organisations. i emphasize the latter because they are increasingly marginalized in our parliament. i note with concern that the defenders of humanism, free thought and freedom of conscience are very rarely invited to speak at these events, whereas at the same time there are many meetings where representatives of the three great monotheistic religions are asked to comment on the union's foreign policy. this is all the more problematic given that it is known that in some of the states concerned, religion is sometimes used to oppress and even persecute the population. i am thinking of course of women, sexual minorities, but also of atheists and apostates, who may risk their lives for the simple fact of it. our values of peace, freedom, equality, do not need the model of faith to be integrated. they can sometimes be fought by even the most extreme forms of all religions. i therefore solemnly ask this parliament to stop favouring religious hierarchies and to work towards guaranteeing freedom of conscience for everyone.
madam president, the principle of transnational lists for the next european elections has been rejected by our parliament. this is a missed opportunity to bring forward a transnational debate which would have been disconnected from our national debates. it is also a missed opportunity to highlight a symbol, that the union is a whole and not just the sum of countries. we can't just leave it at that. let us take advantage of the fact that european citizens will be called upon in may 2019 to choose their representatives to add to this election a popular consultation on our common future. this consultation could take the form of a question or a proposal with a 'yes' or 'no' answer and would be subject to a second vote at the same time, on the same day, in a second ballot box dedicated to it. in this way all european citizens could be consulted and would, i believe, be willing to answer collectively a question concerning their common future. i therefore propose that parliament should take the initiative and that the subject of this consultation or this question should be discussed first in this house.
i declare the 2017-2018 session of the european parliament closed.
madam president, mr president, the customs union and the internal market are now behind us in the relationship with the united kingdom, since that country obviously leaves us only the association agreement as a possible way forward for the future relationship. i want to be clear. this means that the passport system no longer exists and that we are returning to the system of equivalence, in which the question of proportionality will of course have to be integrated, but equivalence, let us remember, is a unilateral decision of the european union. in a way, we all have to be aware that, through this new association agreement to be negotiated with the united kingdom, we will be in a situation of guinea pigs, because we can see that the new data of an association agreement have changed. trade agreements - we know that - have evolved, not just because it's the uk. the question of dispute settlement and the taking into account of taxation issues are new elements which we will unfortunately be testing in some way in this agreement with the united kingdom. a final word to say that we must fully integrate into this negotiation the effect on third countries, because they sometimes want to continue to have a relationship with the european union as if brexit had not happened. but it will have an impact that we must take into account.
madam president, jean-claude juncker has just visited six balkan states, where he promised them membership of the european union by 2025. the european council must discuss this. the accession of serbia is a good idea, as it is a country which is a traditional ally of france. the franco-serbian friendship is also beautifully symbolised by the monument of recognition to france, which serbia has erected in belgrade. the accession of kosovo would be a nightmare, because it is a nest of jihadists. for example, a jihadist general, lavdrim muhaxheri, has just returned from syria with 400 fighters to establish an islamic caliphate outpost there. the accession of albania would be equally catastrophic, because it is a state so corrupt that it is driving its people away. the only ambition of this country in the process of becoming a slum is to become an open-air dump for all the household waste of the european union. i want a europe of cooperation between sovereign peoples, not a europe of jihad and exploitation of poverty.
madam president, mr vice-president, at this european council you will be discussing the question of capital markets union under the auspices of the presidency. it is absolutely essential that the union is moving forward in this area, including at a time when, unfortunately, we have to consider brexit. but this will only be reasonable if we make progress in the conditions of market supervision at the same time. i therefore urge the council to be very active on this matter, without in any way exhausting the question of progress in economic and monetary union. and frankly, sometimes it feels, beyond realism, like waiting for godot. we were waiting for the german elections, we were waiting for the german government, now we are waiting for the franco-german agreement. this is not reasonable, not least because in the trade war now being fought between us and the united states, the euro zone's best weapon is to make progress in its integration in tax matters and in its investment strategy. i hope that is the message you will bring to this council.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's defence industry is able to compete with the european union's defence industry. i therefore ask you to support and confirm today this decision to enter into interinstitutional negotiations. the regulation we want is intended to support industrial cooperation in europe to make our industry more competitive and to encourage innovation. it is therefore a question of developing our european industrial and technological base and limiting unnecessary and costly duplication. our fellow citizens are asking us to act for their safety. it is therefore time to launch better cooperation at european level to meet their expectations in an international context which we know to be unstable. this regulation will enter into force on 1 january 2019, so we need to be able to implement it quickly and put it in the 2019 budget. i therefore ask you to support the decision to start these negotiations.
mr president, mayotte is the poorest region in the european union. oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. the poorest region in the european union is a french region, while france is the second largest economy in the european union. and you should know that mayotte is currently in the midst of the worst crisis in its history. in mayotte, 84% of the population live below the poverty line, half the population are illegal immigrants and public services are poor. i say from strasbourg that mayotte is a disgrace to france and that france is a disgrace to europe.
i'm the reporter. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the council who are not here ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you sincerely. firstly, my co-rapporteur, jan olbrycht, with whom we have been able to work in good faith, in accordance with our convictions and in the interests of parliament and the european citizens, and who, above all, has been able to put up with me, and that is not the end of it. i would also like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs and the secretariat of the committee on budgets, as well as the rapporteurs of the specialised committees. tomorrow the european parliament will have its mandate to negotiate on the financial future of the european union. the analysis of the current under-sized financial framework, which is plagued by incessant cuts and redeployments, is the basis for our refusal to repeat the lack of ambition and seriousness which characterised the implementation of the current mff. our message is a triptych that is meant to live up to the situation. first, to maintain the political pillars of the union, namely cohesion and agricultural policy, without which we would lose the link that unites us. secondly, to strengthen the european union's flagship policies: erasmus+, support for youth against unemployment, research and cosme. thirdly, we must set the stage for the new challenges of the ecological transition in security and defence. this triptych is based on a principle which we want to inscribe in stone: no new policy without additional means. together we are making new commitments: the paris climate agreement, which will have to translate into a 30% spending target, the european pillar of social rights, the un sustainable development goals. these commitments constitute a pact for the reorientation of all the union's policies. building on the lessons of the past, we propose to extend the flexibility instruments of the next financial framework in the need to find the delicate balance between predictability and budgetary flexibility. it must also restore the unity of the union budget by re-establishing parliamentary control and bringing order to the budgetary galaxy by integrating financial instruments and other trust funds into the union budget. the addition is straightforward and the calculation is economical in view of the challenges and expectations of europeans. the next framework will have to be increased to 1.3% of gdp. in this connection, and to get away from the fetishism of the figure, i want to restore a truth that some pretend to ignore: the current financial framework is limited to 1% of the union's gdp, compared with 1.25% in 1999. the european union has never had so much to do with so little. to break the vicious circle of budgetary deflation, we have exchanged our vows and alliances with our colleagues lewandowski and deprez. this joint debate and tomorrow's vote on the own resources reports and the next financial framework send a clear message: parliament cannot give its consent to the next multiannual financial framework without concrete results on own resources. it is time to get out of the budgetary impotency. the council and parliament have set the objectives. responsibility requires that the union's budget be provided with the means to achieve them and member states are expected to do more than make big speeches or, at any rate, to have big speeches accompanied by loud and troubling speeches. we call on the commission to draw inspiration from the work of parliament and we call on the council to open negotiations as soon as tomorrow.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to welcome the commissioner's promising commitment and pay tribute to our four rapporteurs. if we vote on the two own-initiative reports tomorrow, we will no doubt be able to reach a conclusion with the council before the end of this parliamentary term, which will avoid the inertia we experienced in 2014 and 2015 and also reduce the tyranny of fair return. i think that we must maintain a certain degree of flexibility. we see how difficult it has been, during the implementation of the current multiannual financial framework, to deal with certain crisis situations. globalisation is putting member states in front of unprecedented challenges in the areas of security, defence, migration, the digital economy, climate and the fight against globalised terrorism. we must prepare ourselves to take on these challenges collectively because we have common european assets to defend and it is clear that a number of states, at national level, no longer have the means to face these challenges. it should therefore be possible, commissioner, after the european elections in 2019, if we have a majority, if the member states agree, to go beyond 1, 1, 1, 1,2 or 1, 3. a european world power with a budget of 1.3 billion will not cause the continental states to tremble, nor will the multinationals of digitalisation or financialisation. so it should be possible to transfer expenditure that was committed at national level to make it available to the european budget and there, commissioner, you will have the means to demonstrate what european added value is because we will be more efficient by putting national resources into the european budget. we will demonstrate that we can increase the european budget without increasing overall public spending in europe. that is my wish.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, we are gradually approaching that fateful moment when there is no longer any doubt about the budgetary future of the european union. i do not think it is too risky to say that after 2020 we will continue to be locked into austerity. doing more with less, spending better, making smart budget cuts - these are the only logics - you may agree, not very dynamic, but still - that are feeding the current negotiations and are already causing the mourning of european ambitions, your european ambitions, our european ambitions. in this context, the question we are asking ourselves, and which worries us, is 'will this budget be the beginning of the end of cohesion policy and the weakening of the cap?' i want to tell you that if it is on the back of cohesion policy that we are going to find the resources needed to finance new priorities which are not, moreover, obligations of the union, then you will find us on your way to denounce it.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, brexit, the referendums you are losing all over europe, the italian legislative elections - none of these events seem to have yet reached the ivory tower in which you live. i say this because, from the top of this ivory tower, i see the europeanists who are asking for a larger budget for the european union. i see you, zealots of the europeanist religion, calling for a europe of defence and a european army. i see you as fanatical ideologues calling for the introduction of a european tax. but how do i put it to you so you'll understand? your european union, the people do not want it. the 24 languages of the european union are not enough, so why do you have to say it in esperanto to refuse to listen to those who pay you generously? actually, colleagues, this week you've got a lot of projects, each one crazier than the last. but make no mistake: this heat wave is not one of those that heralds the bright summers, but of those that are made by the menopause. your union will be dissolved and, believe me, this event will be celebrated with joy by the peoples.
mr president, i congratulate the commissioner and the rapporteurs. we're finally at the moment of truth. no one can claim that 1% of national income can finance traditional european policies, decisions already taken on migration policy, climate change or defence, and future priorities for the 2020s. the best proof is that the european budget has already exploded. the small community budget, which has remained at the level of twenty years ago, is now supplemented by a constellation of satellite budgets under various names. there is the old moon of the european development fund, there are four trust funds of various emergencies, two funds for aid to greece, the european stability mechanism, the loan facility to countries outside the eurozone, the juncker fund, etc., and the year 2018 opens with the announcement of an impressive new satellite: the defence fund. the negotiations on the next financial framework will therefore have a triple challenge: how much are we prepared to allocate to financing european policies? how will we finance them, with what savings, with what new resources? how will democratic control, that is, parliamentary control, be ensured? let's at least ask the right questions.
mr president, the words spoken just now by isabelle thomas in the introduction reveal the failure of the european union, since our colleague referred to a budget that is too small, characterized by - and i quote her - a lack of ambition and seriousness, and even a budgetary impotence. considering that european policies are ineffective for jobs, growth and purchasing power, considering that the financial room for manoeuvre of the member states - which you have put on a diet - is reduced, common sense would have the european union focus exclusively on its cap and cohesion policy and that brexit, moreover, would result in a decrease in union spending. but you propose the opposite, asking the union to absorb new prerogatives such as security and defence. these two royalties should not be transferred to the union under any circumstances, they must of course remain within the member states. in fact, to finance this delusional federalism, you will even go so far as to deduct 2% of vat revenues or even invent other new taxes. therefore, before imposing austerity on the peoples of europe, the european union should impose it on itself.
madam president, commissioner, budgetary choices must not be made, cannot be made - and we all know this - at the expense of food security and its corollary, food sovereignty. yes, europeans are changing their consumption patterns, and yes, production patterns must change even more if we are to ensure that 500 million europeans have a healthy diet, which means good health for today and tomorrow. yes, agriculture must evolve to be a player in the climate challenge, but also in the migration challenge. yes, agriculture must preserve our soil, our air, our water. but to change agricultural practices, farmers' incomes must first be secured and to do this, the cap budget must be maintained, as must the cohesion budget. we cannot ask the agricultural world to change by cutting the resources devoted to agriculture at a time when the resources devoted to agriculture and food are improving in other countries. thank you, commissioner, for helping us to convince the council of the need for an ambitious budget.
i'm the reporter. madam president, mr oettinger, i sincerely welcome your commitment and thank you for indicating that our work will find its way into the legislative proposal and you said this 90%. i hope the devil isn't hiding in the other 10%. and for example, coincidentally, cohesion, mr commissioner, reducing the wealth gap by country is good, but reducing the wealth gap between cities and countryside and also in the poor neighbourhoods of our rich countries is even better. do you know that in your country 100% of the länder have signed an open letter in favour of maintaining the amounts of cohesion policy? we must be aware that if we were to fall below this threshold, we would have to sacrifice policies. i repeat the figure: 1.25% in 1999 with half the missions from the european union and with the contribution of the united kingdom. i am not surprised to see anti-european members of parliament standing up against our reports, but at least, ladies and gentlemen, do not do so under false pretenses, assume! none of the reports proposes an increase in the member states' share - quite the contrary! that is why we have linked the agreement on the report on the multiannual financial framework to the agreement on own resources. and, likewise, the resources we offer are not at all dependent on the citizens. what surprises me even more is to hear my colleagues who pride themselves on being europeans, sometimes more europeans than anyone else, tell us that we can do more with less. that is not correct. as our colleague mr lamassoure has said, the moment of truth is approaching. in budgetary matters, there is no escape and we shall see who is really european and who is pretending to be. if we can bring together several hundred members of this house to reach a compromise despite our differences, it is to be hoped, commissioner, that the member states will be able to do the same with only 27.
in writing. mr president, commissioner, the commission will propose a draft multiannual financial framework 2021-2017 (mff) at the beginning of may. the next mff will have to be all the more ambitious as it will have to meet the challenge of absorbing the loss of the uk's net contribution of €6-9 billion. many actors are calling for the old policies to be thrown out. in this sense, you have already announced a 7% cut in the cap budget. such a reduction of €4 billion per year means that the loss of the uk's contribution to the current cap will be passed on to the cap of tomorrow, with the uk being asked to contribute 20% to the new policies. i would remind you, commissioner, that this policy is essentially a policy of income support. such a decline will have a direct and almost proportional impact on farmers' incomes. how many farms will disappear because of the lack of support? we are advocating in the european parliament that the cap budget be maintained while reforming it: better allocation of aid, refocusing the cap on economic policy and integrating environmental and climate issues in an intelligent way are our objectives.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would first like to warmly congratulate our rapporteur, daniele viotti, on his excellent work. by adopting the guidelines for the 2019 budget of the european union, parliament is ensuring its role as budgetary authority and is sending a strong signal to the other institutions for future negotiations. two regrets which are both alarms for future proceedings. the first concerns the european commission, which did not play all the transparency during the last conciliation for the 2018 budget by concealing that it planned to turn the increase agreed on the youth initiative into a simple advance on the budgets 2019-2020. we remind the commission as the budgetary authority that this is indeed a numerical increase in this programme. we expect our partners to be more sincere in the negotiations ahead. the committee also warns against ambiguous wording which suggests that parliament would abandon its historic position that new initiatives could be financed by cuts in other programmes. for my group, it is not. the new security programmes will therefore in no way be able to replace solidarity programmes. parliament must maintain its course and thwart all kinds of manipulations. we shall be more careful in the next budgetary conciliations.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, this report on the broad guidelines of the 2019 budget is emblematic of the dogmatic vision of the european union. your political arguments to justify your unnecessary budgetary expenditure are a litany of intentions totally disconnected from the realities and needs of europeans. the europeanist leaders are under the illusion that they are indispensable. as if before the federalist european union there was nothing! but you're the only ones who believe it. your existential concern now is that the majority of citizens increasingly reject your globalist and ultra-liberal european union. in austria, in italy - mr viotti - in france, in the eastern countries and even in germany, the people are waking up and no longer accept your globalist ideology and the flood of migration that you impose. in your anguish, you attribute this phenomenon of popular revolt to the political movements critical of the eu which defend the culture, national identity and economies of each country. but who has been in power for decades? who is responsible for mass unemployment, deindustrialisation and its social ravages? who organized the atlanticist subjugation of the countries of europe? who has fostered the emergence of islamist terrorism and the insecurity of europeans? it's not the "populist" parties, it's you! so don't come throwing your own filth at us and taking on your own incompetence!
mr president, commissioner, it is not easy to draw up a european budget within the constraints we know, and i would like to thank my friend daniele viotti for his proposals which can help to tackle the most urgent challenges facing the european union today: managing migration, of course, fighting youth unemployment, combating climate change, supporting basic research and innovation, encouraging mobility and investment - all policies which should in no way be financed at the expense of structural policies such as cohesion and the cap. i have said many times in this house that our union deserves the means to achieve its ambitions. the ball is now in the court of the commission and the council, which must heed the call of the elected european representatives who absolutely want to avoid the rise of populism and extremism. they must agree to finance these policies from their own resources. i would simply like to remind you, in conclusion, that the fight against tax evasion and what some modestly call tax optimisation should deserve a proper budget for the european union.
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i will be brief. there are testimonies from christians who point out that for a very long time now missiles - we even talk about barricaded bombs - would be sent from ghouta on the rest of the syrian population, which is ultimately attacked, and that it would not be rebels but terrorists. so, you support terrorists who have been attacking civilians from ghouta for years?
mr president, madam high representative, seven years of civil war and horror, 400 000 dead, the majority of them civilians. in eastern ghouta, in idlib, in afrin, the international community is powerless in the face of the massacres. to destroy cities, to destroy schools, to destroy hospitals, is not to fight terrorism, it is terrorism. the message from putin, assad, erdogan and the iranian leadership is clear: you want more democracy, you will have war, you want more freedom, you will have death. the issue of the massacres will not be settled by rolling out the red carpet to putin at the palace of versailles. yes to humanitarian aid, yes to the un peace process, but europe has a responsibility and we must punish those responsible for these horrors where it hurts them: their freedom, their money, their pride. their freedom, fight for an international tribunal on the crimes in syria; their money, let's make an expanded magnitsky list, confiscate their property, ban their territory; and their pride, organize, push for the political boycott of this world cup... (the president withdraws from the speaker)
mr president, we are faced with a number of facts. first, external intervention to destabilize a democratically elected regime, against international law, as seen in iraq and libya. second fact: russia prevents this, changes the balance of power, restores the legitimate power that was thought to be lost. thirdly, the west, faced with this, has only false information: the international observatory for human rights, led by the muslim brotherhood, an organization considered by some to be terrorist, denounces the use of banned gases, except that it is only found among the rebels, who are, in the end, terrorists. it is an act of war to use, against the laws of war, hospitals and schools for protection and to send bombs as these terrorists do. finally, the murder of a russian spy reminds me of the case of david kelly, which the british should remember. finally, i say to you, yes, we must make peace, but we must do it in a cooperative way, facing the truth. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a 'blue card' (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. i think the kurds did a good job. whether that gives them the right to have a state is another question, which we cannot deal with so easily here and now.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, are we going to have to deal with central europe and make the member states and their citizens pay the price for our failures? because we risk failure. we have no competence to deal with a complex area worked by islamism and at the crossroads of the great game between russia, america, iran, india and china. the bitter failure of afghanistan is a testament to this. we have no legitimacy to interfere in those areas which are not european in culture or history and have no reason to become so. we also risk failure if we adopt the same deadly logic as the eastern partnership in the caucasus, where the european union has tried to uproot nations from their historical environment, or in ukraine. we must, however, contribute in a balanced way to the economic development of the region, because otherwise, if we continue with the previous approach, we risk a catastrophic balance sheet of external action.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the european semester is a step towards the complete economic takeover of france and the other 18 euro-zone states. since the so-called independence of the ecb, the power of democratic control has been taken away from the states and the people. the 2011 debt crisis was the direct consequence of this, as monetisation of public debt became impossible. secondly, the irrevocable fixing of the exchange rate has created deep and growing macroeconomic divergences between the euro area states. there is no corrective mechanism, which explains germany's super-surpluses! thirdly, with the banking union, the supervisory power of the banks is based in frankfurt. the blackmail of the financial stability of banks can thus be exercised without the state being able to intervene. cyprus in 2013 and greece in 2015 are the cases of schools. finally, the budgetary room for manoeuvre of the states is gradually being eliminated. since the maastricht 3% criterion, germany has obtained both the budgetary pact and the european semester: a straitjacket that does not work. the next step will be the creation, with the help of mr macron, of a european monetary fund which will be a shirt that will force the states to submit to a budgetary policy 'to the lash'.
mr president, commissioner, the report by our colleague hugues bayet shows how critical the question of the recovery of public investment is, including the mobilisation of the margins of manoeuvre in countries where there are now surpluses. firstly, because it is public investment that stimulates private investment, but also because it is public investment that will enable us to make a successful ecological and social transition, defend our social model and create jobs. in conclusion, the proposal we are making today is a balanced proposal in its economic, social and environmental dimensions which, in the end, contributes to the establishment of a sustainable model. to this end, the creation of the european semester is a factor which must be used to its full potential. that is why the committee on economic and monetary affairs is proposing, for the first time this year, that you use it in practice to combat inequalities, to link the recommendations that the commission will make to the various member states with the united nations' sustainable development objectives, or to use these recommendations to combat discrimination on the labour market, particularly between men and women. finally, i would like to point out how we consider that the question of responsible management of public finances in the long term must be compatible with a rise in wages. we're not the only ones saying that. we still need your help in the council to make ourselves heard.
in writing. on 13 march 2018, the european parliament called on the commission to strengthen its surveillance of european nations. the stated aim: even more austerity and an attack on pension systems. indeed, the long economic and financial crisis in europe has shown that the commission's 'experts' have limited competence in economic matters. mass immigration, wage freezes, and the sabotage of pensions have not boosted growth. the world's most dynamic countries, such as china, are acting in the opposite direction to the commission's recommendations. china has applied the national preference without immigration, and it has been growing by more than 6% every year since 1991. revitalising europe will require european preference and the launching of new industries. ariane was established in 1973 as a cooperation between eight member states of the european union, switzerland and norway, outside the aegis of the brussels commission.
for the greens/efa group mr president, madam commissioner, mr vice-president, after the paris agreement, after the iran nuclear deal, president trump wants to exempt himself from common rules, wants to exempt himself from multilateralism and this is a danger for all of us. this is a danger for all of us and requires a firm response, of course through the world trade organisation and multilateral rules, but if this is not enough, particularly as regards deadlines, the european response will have to be commensurate with the damage suffered. no escalation of trade, but no more or less than the damage suffered. we must be firm in this respect. while trump's decision is unacceptable, it also points the european union to its own shortcomings. we have a common trade policy, which you support, but we do not have a common trade diplomacy. we have no common commercial diplomacy, we have seen that. in each case of significant dumping by china or other countries, european states are divided. everyone is reacting, everyone is trying to save their economic sector, here the machine tools, there the wine, or there the chinese investments in the port of piraeus. if we do not have a common commercial diplomacy, it is because there is a major flaw in this europe. we do not have a common industrial policy. as long as we have 28 national industrial sovereignty, we will be divided and we will not weigh. we have tried, including in this parliament, with the martin report, to say what we should do about the steel industry to modernise it, to innovate, to make it carbon efficient, energy efficient, including perhaps a carbon tax at the borders, but if we do not do that, then we will always be in trouble with the united states, china and all the others. the us decision is an opportunity for europe to finally have a common industrial policy and trade diplomacy.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, yes, it is! you're gonna have to get used to it, because president trump is living up to the promises of candidate trump. with a record trade deficit of $566 billion last year, the us is responding with strong measures to protect its economy, particularly its steel and aluminium industries. this counter-offensive was announced by donald trump in da nang, vietnam, in a speech i spoke about here last november. today the european commission is responding to the american president with threats which are foolish. and now the high priests of free trade are giving us their usual sermons, like mr moscovici, who says that "protectionism is nationalism and nationalism is war". but mr moscovici, who was one of the most disastrous french ministers of the economy, can spare us his empty and outdated formulae. for decades we have been hearing the catechism of the total opening of borders, but these utopias are now crashing against the wall of reality as our continent continues to deindustrialize and hundreds of thousands of jobs have been sacrificed. in france, to speak only of the steel industry, the factories in florange and gandrange have been liquidated and our steel production continues to plunge, since it has been halved in ten years. all the great powers of the world protect their economies. a us car imported into china is taxed at 25%, while a chinese car in the us is currently taxed at only 2.5%, which is ten times less. in the wake of trump's executive order, there has been much talk about the departure of his adviser, gary cohn, but much less about the support given to him by elon musk, a forward-thinking entrepreneur. on the day trump announced these measures, the european commission was launching a new action plan against global warming. but the commission's environmental pretensions are now in total contradiction with its frantic free trade. reducing greenhouse gas emissions requires relocating economies and bringing production centres closer to where they are consumed. that is why the measures of this president, who is a billionaire but who defends the middle and lower classes of his country, are legitimate. they should invite us to rethink our economic model. we must put an end to this system of generalized impoverishment in which the poor in rich countries enrich the rich in poor countries. the future is protection and regulation, the necessary condition for any balanced trading relationship.
mr president, it is clear that mr trump's decision constitutes a declaration of war directed against the steel and aluminium industries of the european union. it threatens tens of thousands of jobs and the lives of territories and cities, against a backdrop of weakening our industries. this protectionism is combined with lower taxes on capital in the united states and competitive fluctuations in the dollar. this will boost interest rates and inflation which are a tax on the poor while feeding the financial markets. these games combining trade war and currency war can become very dangerous for workers on both sides of the atlantic and for the whole world. the solution is not therefore to be found in economic warfare, the only foot soldiers of which are the working people here and in the united states. it is therefore necessary to trigger the mechanisms to safeguard our industries and jobs immediately, but at the same time we must develop a new trade partnership project with a joint commercial action by the european union, based on the general human interest, with stable steel prices and a new world monetary system.
mr president, commissioner, let me ask you a question: do you think that all the meetings you are currently having between the us and european administrations are really doing anything with donald trump? of course, i'm not questioning you. i ask this question because i think his most trusted advisor seems to be his tv station and his closest spokesperson is his twitter account. when we share more than two centuries of history together, the president of the united states doesn't use twitter to announce measures that are so serious for the economy. when fighting together with common goals, he must rally and not twist the arm of his allies. do you have to tweet in bold to be heard? we can ride our high horses, call for a trade war or negotiate, but in any case we are playing a stupid game which puts many sectors at great risk. after racing to see who has the biggest nuclear button, donald trump is playing to see who has the biggest tariffs. between unfair competition and globalisation without rules, europe must rely on itself and, above all, take responsibility. anyway, one thing we can all agree on with donald trump: he's a miracle worker. like moses, he's letting go of everything in his path, both his advisers and, sadly, even his common sense.
mr president, i would have liked to have informed mr bay beforehand, but he is no longer here, which is a pity, and to inform him that there are still more than 2 000 workers in florange who process nearly 3 million tonnes of steel every year. that said, while it is true that trump's unilateral actions are abhorrent, the substance of his decision deserves some reflection. the question is the future of the industry. today it is the united states, tomorrow it will be the european union, because we are suffering from the same symptoms: lack of investment and lack of anticipation. they're jumping up and down like goats: free trade, free trade, free trade. but what free trade are we talking about? what's the right price? if free trade is all about always pulling prices down, china will bring us all to our knees. so we should not respond to provocation with provocation, on the contrary! you must and we must be on the offensive to urgently call for a revision of the wto rules to re-introduce social and environmental considerations in international price setting.
mr president, the supporters of a federal europe are less and less often invoking peace to justify their project, and for good reason their beautiful european union has managed to throw us into a tangle with great powers such as russia and the united states, with future former members such as the united kingdom, and even with current members such as poland. they also no longer invoke prosperity, and one can understand why when one considers the situation in portugal, whose gross domestic product remains below that of 2008, after an unprecedentedly harsh austerity cure. the only thing left is the joke about the cost of non-europe, the idea that everything would be worse if the union did not exist. open your eyes, ladies and gentlemen of the eurocrats, your federal union has failed, the people reject it. if you want to save what can be and move towards a europe of nations, read the white paper on the future of europe again and be inspired by its scenarios which propose to respect more the aspirations of the peoples.
the s&d group. mr president, this is also an important moment for the rights of this european parliament. i would like to correct my colleague brian hayes, because the vote in the committee on economic and monetary affairs was not very broad. if you count the abstentions and the votes against, they were equivalent to the votes in favour, so i do not think mr de guindos had a very large majority in the committee on economic and monetary affairs. but i want to go beyond this stage of our debate because i know how important what is happening is to our institution. in respect of the full powers and authority of the legitimacy of the european central bank, we must strengthen the transparency, the balance, the timetable for the appointment of the members of this institution, beyond what is written in the letter of the treaty. and that is why i am reaching out to the other groups so that together we can continue this battle as a united institution vis-à-vis the council, the eurogroup and the european council, so that we can achieve, on the basis of the six criteria we have defined in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, an improvement in the procedure, and i hope to have your support in this regard.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, the internet offers us both many beautiful opportunities in our daily lives, but also new and violent threats, in particular the major threat of cybercrime. cybercrime is increasing - colleagues have pointed out - and in very large numbers. it affects all of us in the public service. i am thinking of the wannacry attack which was an example that mobilized us and therefore is to be followed in terms of protection. there are no borders for cybercrime. what is our role? firstly, in relation to the member states, perhaps asking them to implement very quickly the european framework on data protection. this will allow us to restore the citizens' confidence. secondly, to raise awareness among citizens not only about small gestures but also about the importance of protecting themselves on the internet and protecting the internet of things through what is known as cyber resilience and, thirdly, to equip judicial and law enforcement authorities with sufficient economic and human resources and capacity to effectively combat this threat, in particular through europol's european cybercrime centre. in this respect, commissioner, i welcome the 'cybersecurity' package presented by the commission. it is also necessary to reform the enisa agency, as you said, to provide europe with a strong cyber defence agency and, finally, to protect our infrastructures, networks and content. in this respect, the role of enterprises is important. we cannot act alone on the public level. companies need to build secure objects, assess, secure, and identify vulnerabilities that threaten products or services, and also systematically report cyberattacks. it is also crucial to work on encryption - i know it is a sensitive topic - in the development of tools to ensure the security and integrity of networks while respecting freedoms. let's go faster and stronger together!
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, in 2016, the centre for media pluralism and freedom assessed the risk to the independence of the press in slovakia at 53%. this was not to mention the climate of endemic corruption highlighted by several international indices, including that of transparency international. how many bloodbaths, like the murder of ján kuciak and martina kušnírová, will it take for the european union to finally take up the issue of rampant financial crime? his inaction in the case of the murder of daphne caruana galizia - by the way, we had the same speech and since then we have heard nothing - is symptomatic of his wait-and-see attitude, as is the division in two, on 23 january, of his already very incomplete list of tax havens. at a time when the commission is waving red rags, such as the imaginary threat of fake news, its inertia in the face of the dramatic decline in press freedom is all the more scandalous as the courage of real investigative journalists is paid for with blood.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, ján kuciak paid with his life and that of martina kušnírová for his taste for truth and his disgust for the corruption that is plaguing slovakia. in the face of intolerable conditions, i stand by their families and the thousands of slovaks who are expressing their anger and thirst for justice. first, by demanding a thorough and impartial investigation into these murders. secondly, by calling for greater protection for journalists and whistleblowers. finally, by ensuring that the organized crime that ján kuciak denounced is brought to light. this case illustrates the value of the future european public prosecutor's office, as european funds are being misused and mafia groups and politicians appear to be linked. the european public prosecutor's office will be able to distinguish the necessary distance between justice and politics. it will ensure that sensitive investigations are conducted in a genuinely independent and coordinated manner. europeans are tired of corruption, let's put an end to impunity.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at the next partsession. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by alain lamassoure, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) (com ((2016) 0683 - c8-0471/2016 - 2016/0336 ((cns)) (a8-0051/2018), and- the report by paul tang, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on a common corporate tax base (com ((2016) 0685 - c8-0472/2016 - 2016/0337 ((cns)) (a8-0050/2018).
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, the accis project has two major political objectives. for companies, it offers a single tax space for the most important tax. that means simplicity, fairness, a level playing field. for the member states, this is the only way to put a definitive end to the temptation of some to reinvent national laws that amount to stealing tax material from neighbouring countries. tax competition is legitimate. it is still necessary to apply to it the same rules and principles that we apply to all other areas within the single market: transparency, fairness, equity. unfortunately, the european parliament has no right to amend taxation. that is why the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal of mr paul tang and myself, wanted to focus on three major policy recommendations. first, the project needs its two legs: harmonization and consolidation. all the companies we have consulted are adamant that the common base alone would bring more complications without the advantage of the common tax area. secondly, if there is a common european regime, it must apply to all companies, regardless of sector, regardless of size. finally, thirdly, this project is an ideal opportunity to address the problem of taxation of digital activities and, in particular, the particular business model of service platforms. these platforms have been around for ten years now. it is time that tax law took account of their existence and their particularities. for example, google and facebook have tens of millions of subscribers in my country and pay no taxes. our european parliament will be the first political institution in the world to put concrete proposals on the table. we look forward to what the commission - commissioner - next week and the oecd will propose next. i would like to make a political clarification. another project to tax digital services and specialised media is currently under way, initiated in particular by france. another approach, which is intended to be simpler and faster, is a tax on sales or on some of the commercial revenues of digital companies. watch your step! this project, which is presented as having the flexibility and speed of a cat, will still have the gestation period of a pachyderme and will, at best, give birth to a mouse, bringing in a handful of billions of euros a year. moreover, as with any indirect tax, the real burden will be borne not by the taxable enterprise but by its customers, with a risk of double taxation. do not be deceived! the real tax revolution will not be a short-lived pocket recipe, but the harmonisation of all corporate taxation. our great predecessors dreamed of it, and we must achieve it.
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, the solution to corporate tax avoidance has a name: the ccctb, the common consolidated corporate tax base. behind this obscure acronym is a tax revolution. no more transferring profits from one branch to another and from one country to another to avoid taxation! this reform adapts our taxation system to the realities of our time. finally, multinationals will be taxed as a single entity in europe and tax will be paid where they actually do business, including digital companies like google or amazon, which will be taxed according to where they offer their services, not just in the country where they have their headquarters. but tax evasion has its accomplices, the national governments, who have been blocking this reform for seven years now. i said, "that's enough". they should stop being hypocrites, pretending to be outraged at every new tax scandal. let's get to it! that is what the citizens are asking for. if our governments cannot agree on this essential reform, i call on the european commission to use the powers at its disposal by proposing that this text be passed by qualified majority rather than unanimous vote. the application of article 116 of the treaty is the responsibility of the court. let it use it to advance tax justice, as president juncker promised us. those who refuse to act against tax evasion are destroying europe!
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, the fight against tax revenue leakage by multinational companies, particularly us multinational companies in the digital economy, is the national front's top priority. tax evasion, tax avoidance and tax fraud cost the french state nearly €100 billion in revenue a year. mr moscovici, without these revenue losses, france would have a budget surplus. the functioning of the european union is the direct cause of this destructive fiscal dumping. thanks to the active complicity of several member states, such as ireland or luxembourg, companies like apple are able to pay an effective tax on their profits in the european union, which is close to zero as a direct consequence of globalism. we support many aspects of the tang and lamassoure reports, especially the concept of digital permanent establishment. this solution solves the problem of the intangible aspect of the crossborder digital economy. we also support the formula for the allocation of the tax base presented in the lamassoure report. this formula would make it possible to redistribute the taxable base efficiently to the states where the economic activity is actually carried out. on the other hand, we are not in favour of removing the 750 million turnover threshold, which would affect too many companies and not just the large multinationals. we are opposed to the federalisation of these new tax revenues, which naturally belong to the states. for these last two reasons we shall vote against. but the national front supports the struggle of the big european states against the tax vampirisation operated by the american digital multinationals with the complicity of a few small states of the european union!
madam president, new technologies and the development of aggressive tax optimisation practices by large companies are rendering the system for calculating and collecting corporate tax obsolete and making it necessary to set up a common consolidated tax base in europe. our corporate tax systems were designed for an economy in which companies had a physical place in a local or national market, which does not take into account the development of the single market or the rise of the digital economy. the common sense principle that a company should pay its taxes where it makes its profits is being eroded. that is why we are pleased to see this project on the table today. it has come a long way, and it has been revived thanks to the erosion of corporate tax bases and the multiplication of scandals, whether it be the case of apple, which paid only 0.005% of tax on profits in a country where tax was already very low, at 12.5%, or the luxleaks scandal, which revealed how agreements between luxembourg and multinationals such as amazon significantly limited the possibility of taxation. but we are also pleased that, at the instigation of your rapporteur and our committee on economic and monetary affairs, we now have the definition of a digital permanent establishment. this is a big step forward for those who want to effectively tax digital. on the basis of this proposal for a tax... (the president withdrew the floor)
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, i thank you for your replies and i thank all our colleagues who took part in this very interesting and very enriching debate, which suggests that tomorrow there will be a fairly clear majority in favour of the proposals adopted by the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i would like to appeal to the council, because the ball is now in its court and it is time for the council, at the appropriate level, that is to say at the political level of the ministers, to take up this matter. we know - we have seen other examples and, on this subject, an example a few years ago - that the council knows perfectly well how to get rid of texts which are in its way, without having to vote formally against them. the first way is to say, "there are other emergencies", and in 2011, that's right, we were in the middle of the eurozone crisis, there was a fire in the house, maybe it was not the time to worry about changing the furniture. another method is to let the file slip by postponing it from one meeting to another, and this is where the priority in time that could be given by the council to a limited solution of the taxation of digital by an indirect tax could be detrimental. finally, there is another method which consists in emptying the draft of its substance, and what we can learn from the work of the working group, which works under the authority of ecofin, is very worrying insofar as they have completed a first reading of the first draft directive, by simply deleting the essence of the provisions proposed by the european commission, emptying the original proposal of its meaning. i therefore call on the council, on the basis of the commission's proposals with the amendments suggested - i hope tomorrow - by the european parliament, to finally address this essential issue in order to achieve the progress that the european union needs.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, as you know, the united states wants to block the import of spanish black olives. already in the negotiations with australia, the agricultural sector was excluded from the negotiations, a position which is completely opposed to that of the european union, which is prepared to sacrifice its farmers. the americans consider that spanish olives are sold at a low price thanks to the subsidies of the cap, and have a serious impact on their industry. the spanish authorities, on the other hand, consider that their efforts to reduce costs and investments are the only reasons why they produce olives at a competitive price. so how can we help spanish producers? the solution is certainly to renegotiate trade agreements and treaties. the primary objective of our agricultural policy must be to feed, not to impose unlimited competitiveness with the aim of speculative agriculture. this exhaustive system no longer makes sense, especially when we know that spain also imports olives. in view of the situation with the united states, we must absolutely revolutionise our trade rules.
madam president, madam commissioner, for many months the commission has been silent. the steel case has been in the news for a few days now, but it is not just a matter of spain, it is a matter of europe through spanish olives. yes, as has been said, this is an attack on the common agricultural policy, it is an attack on the efforts we have been making for decades to get european farmers to comply with international constraints. it is the legitimacy of our common policy that is being called into question today by the united states. but should we remember that the united states gives twice as much aid to farmers per hectare as europe? europe seems ready to give up some part of its agriculture in international agreements and we are silent to defend it when we are attacked in one of our essential tools. commissioner, our citizens are asking us for a europe that protects them. a europe that protects them is a europe that speaks at the right time, a europe that acts immediately and not a year later, a europe that is capable of showing tactics in the face of the adversary. this is what we ask of you, this is what we expect from you, not in june, but right now, this is a signal to send to our farmers.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, madam commissioner, in order to function, a company benefits from many public resources provided by the community: school and training, health and social protection services, public transport, roads and various infrastructures, and sometimes even european funds contribute to this. these companies therefore have a social, territorial and ecological responsibility towards society and their employees. but they are obviously more concerned with their rate of return than with the general interest. we must therefore define a binding framework for social responsibilities. csr cannot be a hollow and ineffective concept as i hear it referred to here. relocations or reductions of staff should be blocked whenever it is a question of increasing stock market profits. when it comes to technological or digital modernisation that increases productivity, the reduction of working time and the promotion of training should be encouraged. social responsibility is also a new sharing of value, i.e. better wages and respect for subcontracting companies. this should lead us to create a minimum wage. it is also paying its contributions to the common good, when a study has just shown that taxes for multinationals have fallen by 9% since 2008. yes, there is an urgent need to set up an effective framework, not a hollow one as we understand it here, in the interests of society as a whole.
in writing. the reform of europass is, of course, an improvement on the technical side, as europass applicants will now have access to a full range of services on a single platform, from the design of online cvs to self-assessment tools or job offers. it is also commendable to recognise the decisive role of the national agencies in the operation of europass and to provide a rigorous framework for the protection of personal data. however, it is regrettable that the commission believes that academic and professional mobility is the answer to the real difficulties encountered in terms of training and employment of young people, since unemployment among those under 25 years of age stabilised in 2018 at a very high level of 18,4%. vocational mobility is a decoy, as differences in training between member states remain considerable, making it impossible to achieve strict equivalence of qualifications and skills. in addition, europass risks increasing immigration from member states with high unemployment and lower incomes than the european average, leading to a brain drain that would accentuate existing imbalances.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, what we are being asked to do is to blacklist a poor, very poor country, which europe blames for not taking sufficient care of the interests of european fleets which, in the clean waters of this country, arrogate to themselves the right, for a few euros, to plunder the resources. i denounce these fisheries agreements. i also denounce the logic which then leads to denouncing them. i denounce the european union's zeal, which is always a little too easy, to assert itself as strong with the weak and weak with the strong, because, in the meantime, the brazilian fleets continue to fish illegally in french guiana waters. i will be particularly careful that, after these agreements, which will be denounced, the fleets do not withdraw to the waters of mayotte and réunion, considering that they have a natural right to fish there. the plundering of the resources of the indian ocean must stop.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, first of all, i just want to say that when you don't keep time, it's an injustice to others. so either we all get off - which i don't see how it's possible - or you give everyone the time they need. i want to tell you. as regards the issue of conflict minerals, i believe that if there are conflict minerals, there is conflict, i would even say there is conflict because there are minerals. in other words, we are in geopolitical games and power games. i would remind you that the rebellion operation in the democratic republic of congo (drc) around 1995 - and i was there - was manipulated, completely led by the united states, and that all this was done, in fact, to get their hands on these minerals. so you always have to put this in the geopolitical context of the war to take control of the minerals. it is true that we need self-certification, it is true that we need more transparency, but my colleague maria arena - and i agree with her - has clearly shown the limits of this industrial model and how it can be perverted. take the drc: we never talk about mr kagame but he occupies that country and takes these minerals very happily while he is considered here as a very democratic man and, moreover, this with the support of canadian, american and german companies. nobody talks about it, how is your self-certification going to do anything? what you have to do is put things in their place. there can be no free trade in highly sensitive minerals. we must renationalize, put the states back at the centre and strike a balance with the security council to effectively take control of these raw materials and not allow free trade to take place because we will always have a diversion.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have heard you, commissioner, and the commission is basically telling us that if the member states respect their commitments on infrastructure, our transport will soon be less polluting. but what if they don't? two years after the dieselgate scandal, which proved that manufacturers cheated on pollution tests and that states covered them up, you tell us: "trust us!" what, trust? but today, manufacturers are still slow to move away from diesel to develop clean electric models. why would you do that? because, according to them, member states are slow to set up charging stations for electric vehicle batteries and, while they are taking the heat, europeans are breathing in fumes that are harmful to their health. stop simply trusting them, mr commissioner, reopen the legislation, set binding targets so that tomorrow our transport is really clean and that, finally, air pollution is reduced and disappears forever throughout europe.
madam president, it is true that the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from transport is obvious and today an urgent one. there are many solutions, and the european union has a duty to encourage all of them, so that they can work in complementarity. we talk a lot about electricity and natural gas, but we must not forget hydrogen, which is now technically controlled. the european union must be much more directive towards the states in the direction of a new territorial structuring of supplies of renewable and alternative energies. the manufacturers also have a responsibility, but the european union must set an example and not only provide a much more significant financial incentive than that proposed here, but also real binding legislation, which must be put in place as quickly as possible. of course, the european union must also encourage research and continue to work on these issues of energy alternatives.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, threats, assaults, criminal prosecutions against the opposition and arrests are commonplace in the maldives. the increase in violence and human rights violations are rightly denounced, of course, but we must go back to the roots of this situation, which is the worst of all violence because it is perennial, because it is imposed on everyone. it is the one generated by the sharia, by the full application of islamic law. it has degraded women and stigmatized and persecuted christian minorities. all this is against freedom and human dignity. in the maldives, as in many muslim countries, it is the inherent evil. in the maldives, it's the opposite of paradise. in the maldives, protesters may parade through the streets waving daesh flags. it is the reason why the maldives are now among the biggest suppliers of terrorists who are operating in syria and iraq, those who murder with the most abject barbarity in our streets. we will always be surprised, in this assembly full of human rights, that it is never denounced in the first place, anywhere.
madam president, behind the idyllic appearance of the maldives lies a dark reality. the human rights situation there continues to deteriorate. by taking advantage of the state of emergency which has been declared and, above all, by exploiting it, president yameen's teams are blatantly violating a large number of fundamental rights. i am thinking of freedom of assembly and association, freedom of expression and free access to an independent and impartial judiciary. of course, the european union must use all the legal arsenal at its disposal to try to put an end to this situation. that is why i have chosen to follow the adoption of this resolution without reservation. but let us not be naive, let us not just wish the teams on the pitch well. that is why i also want to take this opportunity to warn the european public by saying: 'before you go there, know that the maldives is no longer the paradise you think it is.'
madam president, the maldives case was already the subject of a resolution last october. we were able to draw attention to the complicated situation in this country, which is drifting towards an authoritarian political system: the separation of powers is being abused, the rights of religious minorities are also being violated, and the opposition is being muzzled. the already serious situation has deteriorated with the introduction of the state of emergency and its prolongation on an unconstitutional basis and now with the threat of reinstating the death penalty. it is clear that the current president is increasing the pressure in the run-up to the elections due to be held next autumn. in this context, the european union must be uncompromising and make full use of all the instruments at its disposal to urge the maldivian government to return to normal democratic standards: to put an end to intimidation of the judiciary and journalists, to release political opponents, to respect minority rights and to respect the moratorium on the death penalty. diplomatic firmness will have to be accompanied, if necessary, by financial sanctions and the freezing of certain leaders' assets abroad.
author. madam president, we are here again to discuss sudan, a country which has repeatedly continued to flout fundamental rights since the accession to power of president al-bashir in 1989. the scandalous situation of human rights defender and sakharov laureate salih mahmoud osman should not be allowed to obscure the overall situation in sudan, a country ruled by a dictator, still under an arrest warrant from the international criminal court for genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes, a country where human rights defenders, political opponents and women's rights defenders are systematically imprisoned, a country which openly practices torture, silences the press, restricts the activities of ngos or expels them without a summons. it must be said and repeated: any form of cooperation with the sudanese authorities is in breach of obligations under international law and puts at risk the persons who have been handed over by the european authorities to the dictator omar al-bashir. since the khartoum process, member states have been openly collaborating with a criminal regime in the management of a migration policy in a shameful way. the european union is putting over 200 million dollars into a wider strategy of outsourcing control of... (the president interrupts the speaker)... migration. we must therefore stop cooperation with sudan.
author. madam president, at the end of 2017, salih mahmoud osman, winner of the 2007 sakharov prize, warned us in brussels about the risks to human rights in sudan, in the light of the evolution of the european union's cooperation with his country in the context of the khartoum process. in early january, as the country was again shaken by large-scale peaceful protests against the rising cost of living and especially basic commodities, he was arrested along with more than 140 journalists, opposition leaders and activists, including those from the sudanese communist party, activists, lawyers, human rights defenders. the notorious niss (national security and intelligence service) and the fast-moving security forces, former janjaweed, are acting against the laws, including sudanese laws, and it is precisely the niss that arrested salih osman. he's a diabetic and his health has deteriorated rapidly due to lack of care. he'd be in the hospital. if relations between the european union and sudan are worthwhile, if they are worth anything, now is the time to show it and to get salih osman and all political prisoners in sudan released. i'm counting on you, commissioner.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, you are rightly outraged by the plight of many disabled children in uganda, who are euthanized because they are considered a burden on society. these acts are more than shocking, monstrous, they are absolutely revolting. and whether you like it or not, the emotion they evoke is a remnant of christian ethics that many here reject. unfortunately, as is often the case, the protests we hear in this house cannot mask the hypocrisy of parliament. it is good that you condemn the euthanasia of children in uganda but you remain silent when governments like belgium and the netherlands legalize euthanasia, including of children. in this union which is so full of human rights, a eugenic society is emerging, a society which accepts that we can get rid of our old people, but also of our disabled people, through prenatal screening. the former adviser to françois mitterrand, mr attali, said as long ago as 1981: "as soon as a person is over 60-65 years old, he lives longer than he produces and he is costly to society. [...] euthanasia will be one of the essential instruments of our future societies... i think we're there.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, on the night of friday to saturday, france, in line with the us and british war-mongering positions, carried out a series of strikes on syrian territory. these acts of war were decided unilaterally, without any un mandate, in total violation of the rules of international law and without even the slightest discussion either in the framework of the united nations or in the framework of national parliaments. emmanuel macron justified the strikes by alleging that the bashar al-assad regime had used chemical weapons against civilians. let us be clear: if chlorine weapons were used, it would of course be a disgrace to be condemned without reservation. but at this point, not a shred of evidence has been brought to bear on these allegations. it would have been right to let the investigation go on, since the opcw experts were due to arrive on saturday. those who now speak of red lines are very discreet when it comes to, for example, the massacres of the yemeni population by the saudi regime. furthermore, one can legitimately ask: what would have been the interest of the syrian government in using such weapons when, thanks in particular to the decisive action of russia, 95% of the syrian territory is now free from the yoke of the islamic state and the islamist factions that occupied eastern ghouta are now totally annihilated? whatever one may think of the syrian regime, this intervention has no real military effectiveness. tens of millions of euros were spent on one hour of fireworks. there is no strategic interest in this expensive operation either. is this an attempt to communicate, perhaps to get back in the game and to be able to sit down at the negotiating table? we must not forget that it is our dogmatic blindness over the past few years that has excluded us from it. but just as western military actions in the past against saddam hussein's iraq or gaddafi's libya resulted in the strengthening of the islamists and the sowing of war first and chaos second, these strikes against syria correspond neither to the interests of european nations nor to the interests of the syrian people. the countries of europe must ensure the stabilization of this part of the world which is in the immediate vicinity of our continent. in syria, any weakening of the damascus regime will allow the islamists to flourish, especially those backed by saudi arabia. the total eradication of all jihadist groups must remain our priority, as this is the only objective that is in line with both european and syrian interests.
mr president, if i may, before we went to the minutes you said that we were a political parliament and that we had to make our voices heard. that's what we do on a regular basis. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that on 26 october last, right here, we voted a resolution against sexual harassment by a very large majority. six months later, the roadmap is still not in place. worse still, six months later, a number of elements that were included in that resolution are not included in the roadmap, including three key points: the call for external audit, the training of members and the re-composition of anti-harassment committees, including administrative staff. it is our collective responsibility to fight sexual harassment. we did so by voting for this resolution, but it is also your responsibility and duty, mr president, to ensure that the resolution as a whole is respected. i therefore ask you to put the three missing points back on the road map.
in writing. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the european parliament has been a major player in the debate on the future of the european union. this legislative report is part of the union's action plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 and to achieve the objectives of the paris climate agreement. agriculture and forestry are already active contributors to the mitigation of global warming through their capacity to absorb greenhouse gases. i am glad that this report has given due recognition to this reality. secondly, i believe that member states will have sufficient scope to mobilise the full potential of their forests to contribute to our climate objectives while supporting the growth of the entire timber sector, which is essential to the european economy. thank you .
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the seventh environment action programme sets the objectives to be achieved by the union and its member states in the field of the environment by 2020. despite its merits, the report before us today seems to be a litany of regrets and reproaches to all european policies which do not sufficiently integrate environmental issues into their objectives. agriculture, including our common agricultural policy, is particularly attacked in this report. it is an obstacle to the achievement of the objectives of the action programme. agriculture in europe is diverse, multifaceted and multifaceted. the idea of farming is man-made. who are we talking to? who are we talking about? who are we targeting? while some results are already being achieved, it is clear that farmers are performing a genuine public service mission for the union and its citizens. this task must be valued at its true value, which is too low, and the economic dimension of agricultural activity must not be denied. without economic sustainability of farms, there will be no progress in the environment or in the climate. commissioner, what other policy can say the same?
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this report on gender equality in the media sector is another blow in the wind. you are right to point out that harassment and pornography on social networks are a danger to women and girls. you are right to say that maternity is synonymous with discrimination in employment and you are also right to say that the principle of equal work, equal pay is still a fantasy today. but the rest is much more confusing. your approach to the media world seems to be based on numbers. these statistics on women working in the media would allow you to say that they are discriminated against. i'll take that. as usual, your only solution then seems to be quotas. let me tell you something: quotas don't work. women represent 50% of the workforce in a field, but this does not mean that they are equal to men. equality is not something that can be decreed or measured by statistics. you have another solution: change mindsets through the media. this is where the text becomes very disturbing to us. you said the media doesn't promote a positive worldview, but gender stereotypes that are offensive to women. it is easy to guess the occupations or roles behind this term 'stereotype': nurse, secretary, housekeeper or even worse, mother of a family. as you read, none of these roles should be given to women in media content as if it discredits them, as if it is the cause of their unhappiness. your blind determination, driven by some communitarian lobby, to make girls into boys and vice versa, is ridiculous. you are finally forgetting the most important point that should prevail over everything else: freedom of choice. in this area of the media, as in all other areas of society, we members must keep one thing in mind: that of offering every individual the opportunity to freely choose the professional and personal path he wishes to follow. i prefer complementarity between men and women, freedom of choice, equal rights to quotas, the re-education of consciences, the tearful speeches about the fact that only 40% of women work in the media, which sound like incantations.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the budgetization of the edf is not necessarily a good thing for greater transparency and democracy. i remain convinced that development needs the states, our states and the acp states, and that it is above all through the association of the parliaments - national parliaments, european parliament - upstream and downstream of the decision that we will have more transparent processes. as far as the trust funds are concerned, i share the criticism. i do think that we should avoid these trust funds being a way of supporting ngos, committees or development agencies, without the states being involved again. and it is. this was shown for the bekou fund. it is not even possible to clearly associate the state and make it an instrument of support for the development of states. i am also convinced that if we want to develop africa, we need, in addition to states and global aid, sectoral aid that accompanies development in which we are fully involved by the funds and in which there is co-decision and co-management, which also implies the monitoring of expenditure. finally, as regards security and the fight against immigration, i would like to stress the importance of these funds. it is indeed necessary to set up 'security and development' funds, particularly in the sahel and great lakes countries. these funds must always combine this approach. this must be done by the states and with the states; you can't do that with ngos or development agencies.
madam president, as the rapporteur said in his opening remarks, crises which we are unable to stop where they start inevitably have very important repercussions on our territory sooner or later. we have every reason to be interested in the situation and developments in the world, especially in the poorer countries. what do the actors want from us? they first ask us for a clearer policy, a policy that is easier to apply, a policy that is more readable. they often have administrations which are themselves in difficulty: we must avoid adding complexity to complexity, that is a european evil. let us listen to what our interlocutors, especially those from the south, are saying: "help us, but don't make it too complicated".
madam president, as our rapporteur, mr enrique guerrero, has rightly said, the european union must be a global actor of peace and solidarity. poverty is the cause of many of the ills that our world suffers from, including hunger, conflict and immigration, and the union has a duty to base its external action on its fundamental values, among which, of course, is solidarity between peoples. having piloted decentralised cooperation operations in the past, i know the importance of external financing and its potential leverage. the union has a duty to maintain its level of intervention, and even more, and to put its expertise at the service of humanitarian organisations. in my view, it should increase its involvement in the establishment and expansion of public services in developing countries, because these public services are the real wealth of the poor and must be accessible to everyone and everywhere.
the rapporteur. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, at a time when we are concerned about the escalation of the conflict between the united states and china and its possible repercussions on the agricultural sector, i have come to speak to you about a sector which represents one of the most important challenges for food security in the future. whether we consume them directly, such as peas and soy products, or as animal feed, plant protein is now at the heart of our diet. these crops have immense agronomic interests and play a central role in the transition to more sustainable production systems. therefore, every effort should be made to encourage european farmers to use them and to strengthen their competitiveness. the future of plant protein in europe raises another question: what development of our agriculture and what food model do we want for future generations? in the field of supply, the signing of the gatt and blair house agreements and the opening of markets have sealed the european union's dependence on third countries. as a result, we now import more than 75% of our plant protein supplies from argentina, the united states and brazil, and this deficit is growing. today, countries such as china are implementing supply strategies based on production contracts with latin american countries that lack transparency, and the european union is at serious risk of seeing its supplies and the stability of its markets seriously threatened. this dependence causes irreversible damage to biodiversity, such as deforestation, but also represents a considerable carbon footprint. it goes against the demand of european citizens, who are increasingly expressing concerns about gmos, since the majority of imported crops, particularly soybeans, are genetically modified. with the successive international agreements, the adjustment variable of which is inevitably agriculture, and in particular livestock, can we really afford to put our sector, which is also distinguished by its quality and traceability, at risk? i am concerned about the international situation today, but i also have confidence in all the european actors involved who can help us to change the situation, be they farmers and their organisations, food producers, scientists, administrations and elected representatives. together, let us put together a medium- and long-term strategy that europe is sorely lacking. the european union must be more ambitious and have a genuine strategic supply plan that mobilises agricultural, research, trade and neighbourhood policies. developing a european supply chain and limiting imports would reduce the pressure on latin american soils and forests. the fight against deforestation is at the heart of the paris climate agreement. but let us be clear: there will be no increase in production unless we first improve the competitiveness of these crops. today, growing protein crops is still much less profitable than traditional large-scale crops. why is it surprising that only 3% of arable land in the european union is devoted to protein? however, legumes have their advantages: they have the unique property of capturing atmospheric nitrogen, which allows farmers to use less fertiliser. by generating many co-products used in green chemistry and for the production of renewable energy, they fit perfectly into the circular economy. i hope that in the next cap, incentives for nitrogen fixing plants will not be provided solely under the ecological focus areas, but through a set of measures in the first and second pillars, such as crop rotation, crop associations and support for ecosystem services. we must not only value protein-rich crops but also forage and grassland, as these are the largest source of protein intake in europe. this requires a clear increase in research, greater use of innovation and better territorial structuring of the sectors. finally, i hope that some crops will have coupled aids which are a valuable tool and will enable farmers to turn more to legumes. food sovereignty and security, the fight against global warming, a better closure of the nitrogen cycle and the upgrading of our supply chains: as you will have understood, plant proteins are at the heart of all the issues we will tackle tomorrow for the future of our common agricultural policy. it is essential that the future cap gives them a prominent place in order to enhance the services provided by agriculture and farmers. i would like to conclude by thanking the fictitious rapporteurs and all their collaborators who have made it possible to complete this report.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate my colleague jean-paul denanot and pay tribute to him for this excellent report. i think we have to stop lying to ourselves, we have to stop lying to ourselves. we are, in europe, dependent on vegetable protein, as has been said: we import more than 90% of vegetable protein, in particular soybeans, which are very largely genetically modified. our european cattle are fed gm soybeans. that is the reality and nobody says it, when gm crops are banned in europe. we have to get out of this hypocrisy. we must develop a european protein plan, as jean-paul denanot has suggested. we must not only value the high-protein non-gmo crops, soy in particular, but also all legumes with seeds and fodder and grassland because, in fact, 70% of the protein comes from these grasslands. i ask the european commission, as has been said, to integrate this protein plan into the cap for the period after 2020 and to take bold decisions to make protein a value in europe.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, when i listened to my colleague denanot, whose work i commend, i felt as if i were in the same room seven years ago when we were debating the häusling report. the same words, the same terms, the same hopes, and yet the same result: europe remains a cruel importer of proteins. we still have a deficit of over 20 million tonnes to feed mainly our livestock. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the decisions proposed at the end of last year on ecologically important areas are now being translated into a reduction in protein areas. the proposed circular economy policies, even though vegetable oils are a by-product of the production of animal feed, will lead to a decrease in the use and valorisation of proteins. so we must all be consistent if we are to make any progress on this issue.
madam president, first of all, thank you, mr president, for this good report. i don't get to say this very often, so i'll say it in the introduction. i believe that our aid often creates new dependencies and that our borrowing often puts us in debt. it is time to get back to a dynamic where we are in wealth creation that actually allows us to get out of aid and does not create new dependencies. in the old days, the bible said that after 50 years, debts were canceled. i believe that no nation can be locked up in debt. you are also right when you attack the "vulture seals". indeed, it is too easy today, but it is a general concept: man works for the economy, the economy works for finance and finance itself is governed by the market. behind this, there is no more sovereignty, there is no more development, there is the lockdown in debt and in the governing finance. it is a new imperialism that is against development in africa and against development in our country. i do not know whether the imf will find the solutions, we differ a little on this point, but i think you are on the right track and your report is going in the right direction.
the rapporteur. madam president, cohesion policy is a european policy which is unfortunately not discussed enough, but which, as we know, is essential for our territories. it finances a wide range of projects, from sme financing to vocational training and cooperation between regions. above all, this policy embodies a europe that is both concrete and local, since these funds, as we know, are managed as closely as possible to the territories. the proposals for the next budgetary framework of the union are imminent, and it is clear that we are hearing a lot about the new european challenges of defence, security and the refugee crisis and the reception of refugees. it is of course entirely legitimate and necessary for the european union to adapt to these new challenges, but i would like to say that the objective of cohesion and support for the territories has not become obsolete overnight, quite the contrary. the report i have been given shows that europe needs to invest more than ever in concrete achievements to get closer to its citizens and contribute to improving their daily lives. so, of course, we're not wrong. it would be wrong to claim that cohesion policy is entirely satisfactory today, but to guarantee its future it is not a matter of defending the status quo but of reinventing, redesigning and adapting it. the first project is, i believe, about simplification. with almost 800 pages, 450 articles and 89 annexes, this policy has, as we know, become illegible. worse, it is so complex that it sometimes turns absurd and discourages more and more beneficiaries from using it. however, there are practical solutions to make this policy simpler, more readable and more effective. this is also clear from a consultation i wanted to launch with the beneficiaries of european funds in my region of the pays de la loire. this survey, which i sent to 150 structures that have benefited from these funds, gave very concrete feedback to illustrate this report and demonstrated a need for simplification but above all the real added value of european funds for project promoters. this survey, which was carried out in a region classified as one of the most developed, also confirms that concentrating cohesion policy exclusively on the poorest regions would in fact be a mistake. the report therefore emphasises that the european parliament cannot negotiate the coverage of all european regions. several recently published studies show that while europe's less developed regions have experienced significant growth in recent years, many territories are still fragile and remain so. these territories are in a way caught between, on the one hand, the large metropolises which concentrate development and wealth and, on the other hand, competition with regions which are less developed or less favoured. the real challenge will therefore - i believe - be to ensure that cohesion policy as a whole is better adapted to the challenges of today's regions. it will of course be necessary to strengthen the social dimension of cohesion policy, but also, no doubt, to take better account of the infra-regional disparities, because our regions, including the most developed, have pockets of difficulty and poverty within them, and they must be adequately supported, which is not necessarily the case today. it will also be necessary to protect a number of territories that are sometimes forgotten by globalisation, such as certain rural territories, and it will of course be necessary to offer differentiated responses according to the specificities of a number of territories, in particular the overseas territories. in a very simple way, this is a summary of the report which will be put to the vote tomorrow and which should, in a certain sense, embody the position of the european parliament on the future of european regional policy. there would, of course, be much to say on this subject. in any case, i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs of the other political groups who took part in the negotiations and in this work. i am counting on my colleagues tomorrow to support this report and to send a signal in favour of a strong europe at the service of the territories.
madam president, civil society is not opposed to political society. on the contrary, it must complement it for a living democracy. citizens have the right and even the duty to express their views on all matters which concern them. unfortunately, there are a number of deviations in political developments both within and outside europe. indeed, civil society must have the means to resist these deviations. we must therefore help all these non-governmental structures to preserve democracy in europe and, from this point of view, i of course fully support the initiative. i would like to take this opportunity to remind you of the role of both the committee of the regions and the economic and social council, which we must continue to finance properly. finally, i would have liked to see the european parliamentary intergroups receive specific funding because they are a forum for debate between parliamentarians and civil society.
in writing. civil society organisations work for all european citizens, whether hungarian, polish, greek, romanian or french. in reality, they are trying to work for them because they are hampered by certain governments that impose legal and financial restrictions on them, or even threaten them. it is a policy that is harmful to them, and i am thinking particularly of women, because the organisations that fight for their rights are a prime target. a report by the european agency for fundamental rights in january 2018 said that polish authorities attacked offices of women's organizations that participated in anti-government protests, pro-abortion protests, and demonstrations as the ruling party attempts to tighten one of europe's most restrictive abortion laws. to enable these organisations to continue to exist, the european parliament is proposing a new financial instrument enabling the european commission to grant grants to organisations active in the defence of fundamental rights in europe. it is a concrete request, which can be implemented quickly and which can help millions of european citizens. the commission cannot turn a blind eye when our fundamental values are being undermined.
for the gue/ngl group mr president of the republic, welcome. it is difficult to understand your concept of a sovereign europe at the very moment when you have taken the decision to bomb sites in syria, outside the framework of european discussions, without a un mandate and with only mr trump and mrs may as an alliance. as intolerable, reprehensible and abject as the use of chemical weapons by the dictatorial regime in damascus may be, you cannot escape the framework of international law. even the september 2013 resolution against syria requires it under chapter vii of its charter, which expressly states that the decision is the responsibility of the security council. what is serious and disturbing here is twofold. if our country produces acts that, in fact, violate international law, then we are paving the way for the law of the jungle. secondly, why the double standards? on the one hand, the readiness to bomb syria without waiting for the conclusions of the expert mission when israel, with impunity, is killing in gaza, when turkey is taking over afrin and when yemen is bombed in the most complete silence. we would be working on a draft conference for peace and co-development between europe and the near and middle east, including recognition of the state of palestine. if your citizens' consultation project were only intended to oppose those who are in favour of european integration and those who are against it, i believe we would be in a death trap. there is another way, a much more productive way, that of a progressive, social, democratic and ecological transformation of the european project, that is to say, the modern and new way of a union of associated, free, sovereign nations and peoples. the word 'refind' should not hide the ultra-liberal, austerity and undemocratic leap forward, the very one that is causing immense anger throughout europe, which you have mentioned. in france, the boom in salaried workers, pensioners, the unemployed, and those whose lives are precarious or even crushed, stems from more than a decade of austerity while big companies are making profits and tax evasion is breaking records. if europe is to protect them, it must put an end to this old dogma of competition which allows social and fiscal dumping, encourages relocations, lowers the level of remuneration for labour, destroys public services. it is a europe of solidarity that we should invent. let us carry out an innovative act for all european citizens, that of social security of work combined with the essential training guaranteeing upward harmonization of wages and the right to housing for all. europe is not protecting when it goes to the front of these free trade agreements which destroy our social, health and environmental standards. let us invent fair trade and cooperation instead of this economic war, a new agricultural and food policy that will ensure the safety of our farmers and the quality of our food, a ruthless fight against tax evasion and tax havens, and the taxation of financial transactions. a europe that protects would be one that no longer lets refugees sink into the sea and run into walls but would reach out for asylum, as proposed in a report from this parliament which could also be useful to your minister for the interior. to protect workers and peoples, for sovereignty, we must have the courage to emancipate ourselves from the domination of the financial markets and invent new mechanisms to cancel illegitimate debts, renegotiate others and give ourselves the means to effectively mobilize the huge sums of money that the central bank creates for the economy of the future: public services, the environmental and digital transition through the creation of a fund for human, social and environmental development. such a fund would be a very good tool to pay off our debt to sncf, to promote a common project for freight in europe in the service of the climate, and it could also be a formidable lever to launch a major european digital enterprise to break out of north american domination. in fact, mr president of the republic, the time has probably come to ask ourselves the question of revolutionizing the construction of europe with and for the peoples.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, mr president of the republic, i have too much respect for your office to be pleased with the exercise you are undertaking before this assembly which is playing at parliament because it is not a parliament and there is no single european people to represent and which is widely acquired in brussels, where people dislike it when people are mentioned and where they like it when people are communing in the european religion. you came to please, to please the powerful, as you always have. please the richer ones, who can now, as you say, manage on their own, and are exempt from their duty of solidarity with the nation. to please the professional teachers, those who, for a long time, have seized power and turned their backs on the people. your jury is here, in the ranks of the european commission, and it is they who evaluate you every day and it is they who, today, will give you a mark. rest assured, your grade will be excellent because your speech has taken up without surprise all the canons of the european catechism. your jury gives you a good point when you talk about european sovereignty, which is a very misleading way of undermining national sovereignty, the only thing that is worthwhile in a democracy. your jury is giving you its encouragement when you endorse its agenda: liberalization, destruction of public services, total opening of borders in defiance of the senseless risks of migration and the risk of terrorism, ideological condemnation of any form of trade protection. today, it is true, you almost missed the congratulations of the jury, because you spoke for once in french, whereas, more and more often, in your public expression, you abandon the language of molière and the francophonie in favour of anglo-american. but rest assured, you are still the commission's darling. you are such a good student, so well-versed in the politics of the commission and the lobbies that you have already joined tony blair and matteo renzi as brussels's ticklish favourites. and like them, you are condemned to promise to reform the european union, but you are already disappointing because it is structurally unreformable. mr president, you have already failed on the question of secondment and glyphosate. that's why i'm sad. to lead an old nation like france is too noble a task to be sunk in this star academy of the fading stars of the european flag where everyone marches like a common student. mr president of the republic, do not go into the waters of technocrats and lobbyists. the world here is already the old world. the world of tomorrow is the world of the people who raise their heads. be connected to this dynamic of history. under the leadership of nigel farage, followed by so many others, the british people have already broken their chains. yes, the british people, whether you like it or not, have sovereignly voted for their freedom and independence. freedom is the future, the european union is already the past. mr president of the republic, speak about france and, therefore, speak to the world, as france knows how to do when it is free and as president chirac knew how to do in 2003, when he knew how to refuse american wars. you yourself said in a recent interview with the bbc that if a referendum on frexit were held in france, frexit would win. so be a democrat, hold this referendum in france, give the young pride, the old dignity and freedom for all. france is much better than a long, exhausting one-on-one with brussels and berlin. france is a country on all continents and all oceans. our nations are far brighter civilizations than any european treaty will ever be. let's leave the european union and go back to the world. and if, by chance, mr president of the republic, you are not attracted to this prospect, then you could either change your career at the european commission or go straight to goldman sachs. you'll have missed only one step. long live frexit, long live the freedom of our nations, long live free france!
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, if you have managed - it must be said - without much difficulty not to make us regret your predecessor, françois hollande, your recent decision to follow the united states in unilateral military intervention in syria will perhaps make us regret jacques chirac, who at least had the merit of saying no to the american warmongers. so have you and all the others learned nothing from iraq or libya, from those interventions which were justified at the time by moral considerations but which ended up sowing war, sowing chaos and allowing the jihadists to flourish? are you not aware that in france, as in syria, it was the worst of the islamists who applauded your strikes? in international affairs, as in many others, you are far, far from the new world you claim to embody. you are gathering around you, in a siege-castle reflex, all the beneficiaries of this old world, of a model that is out of breath, all those who have an interest in its perpetuation, all those who still dream of the global village. your project of running away seems above all to be the pale synthesis of jacques delors and edith cresson, that of an ever more bureaucratic and ever less democratic construction, that of an amnesiac europe, without borders and without identity. with a certain modernity and not without some communication skills that you must recognize, you are finally against the tide of the world to come. for human and cultural reasons, for economic and ecological imperatives, this century will be the century of the return of the very notion of limit, that is to say of frontier, unpleasant to the zealots of the unrestricted free movement of goods and persons, which has become the free movement of arms and terrorists. on sunday evening you said that france should be 'a more flexible and mobile country'. mobility, flexibility - these are words, slogans, advertising, communication, so far removed from real politics and its demands. what we must guarantee is a sustainable france and sustainable nations in europe. the people have spoken, mr president. listen to what the united kingdom, austria, italy, poland, hungary and many french people have said, one after the other. these peoples want their economies, businesses and jobs to be protected from unfair competition. they do not want posted workers or free trade agreements which benefit a small minority at the expense of the real economy and the people who suffer as a result. they want to end unchecked and unending immigration. they want their sovereignty back, that is, simply their freedom. yes, the people want to be able to decide for themselves. in the past, we called it democracy. the peoples are expressing their rejection of this european union which wants to decide everything but which is incapable of meeting the challenges where it is really expected. a paradoxical mixture of deregulation and over-regulation, absent and powerless in technological innovation, food safety, artificial intelligence or the protection of personal data, the european union is on the other hand omnipresent when it comes to undermining the freedom of nations. you want to speed up by leaving out nations that would not share your choices and who, in your words, would not want to "move forward". but what is the point, mr president? moving towards more european integration, less economic regulation, more immigration and communitarianism? with you - and you will no doubt have the support of mr verhofstadt - it would be europe without hungary but with turkey. 'it seems to me impossible to imagine a european renaissance which does not take into account the requirements of rootedness' said albert camus, speaking of the work of the philosopher simone weil. the rebirth of europe, its re-foundation, must be rooted in our nations, in our common civilization. this is the challenge of identity that we must face together. the identity of nations is not a burden, but rather a weapon and a shield in globalisation, and can be a formidable factor for success and influence. the europe of nations, cooperation and protection: this is the future that the peoples are writing and it is in front of them that we are calling you to meet in a year's time.
mr president, mr president of the republic, i address you with the esteem in which i hold the man who is restoring dignity to the office of president in france and who is undertaking courageous reforms in my country. you, like me, want to give a future to france and europe, which is going through a profound crisis of legitimacy and lack of love for the peoples. but europe, this civilization of freedom, will be nothing tomorrow if it allows itself to be erased by demographic realities. on sunday night, you quoted the essayist stephen smith about africa. i will therefore repeat his figures: there are now 510 million europeans in the union and 1.3 billion africans on the neighbouring continent. in 30 years, the proportion will be 450 million europeans to 2.5 billion africans, five times as many. and by 2100, three out of every four people who will be born in the world will be born in sub-saharan africa. your minister of the interior, mr collomb, himself spoke of 'migration flooding'. immigration is not the cure for europe's ageing. immigration brings more dependents than workers. it destabilises our societies and helps to tear apart our national units, fragile legacies of centuries of struggle. what is needed is to make the gains we have made in our lives productive, to encourage labour mobility within the union, to revive our european birthrate, to digitise our economies by relying on robotics and artificial intelligence. mr president, our freedoms are first and foremost the product of our civilization. this is what budapest, prague, warsaw and vienna remind us of. to ignore or treat with arrogance this signal from the peoples and governments of the east would be, in my view, a grave mistake for the future of europe. it is now up to you, mr president of the republic, since you have the talent and courage, to add to your fight for the economic modernization of france the essential fight for the future of european civilization. the french and many other europeans are waiting for you on this subject.
mr president, mr president of the republic, you speak as a convinced european, a european in augmented reality, and that has been enough for some of my colleagues. however, on at least two occasions you have retained only the virtual side of these european references. in february 2018, the french government voted a text on the proper application of the common asylum system, but its title is misleading and the intention was to use the european cloak to justify particularly objectionable provisions, such as the detention of anyone affected by the dublin regulation, including children. it's the same this week with the asylum and migration act which, to sum it up, destabilizes or destroys what doesn't cause problems and doesn't fix what does. the question of deadlines, which we may come back to, is not the problem, at least not in the way you think. in the meantime, the reform of the dublin regulation is in danger because member states are blocking the negotiations and france is particularly rigid on this issue. that is not what i would call a european orientation and i deeply regret it.
mr president, mr president of the republic, our world has entered a process of savagery and de-civilisation. it is indefensible to call europe as it has become to the bar of our conscience. it is indefensible because it is accommodating the rise of far-right movements and the challenge to fundamental rights. it is indefensible because the europe of defence is in reality preparing the way for war. but, fortunately, this is not going to happen anytime soon, given france's isolation in its war adventure in syria. it is also indefensible because europe, which was supposed to be the europe of the people, has become the europe of the rich. what we are proposing is a different path from the 'ordnungspolitik' conceived in berlin, a europe which, without destroying france, is made with the peoples. i believe that the european sovereignty you have mentioned is an impossibility in its very nature, because sovereignty, as you know, lies with the people.
mr president, mr president of the republic, on behalf of the french delegation of the epp group, welcome and thank you for being here. i would also like to thank you for launching your election campaign here, because this afternoon in epinal - beautiful image - you will be launching the citizens' consultations and you will therefore be equipping your political family with a formidable administrative machine. the question in the coming months is not whether we are for or against europe. the real question is what kind of europe do we want? what our fellow citizens want is closer ties. my question, mr president, is this: how are you going to strengthen this closeness, given that in france you took a leap backwards by 20 years by abolishing the regional constituencies, that you have tried to impose transnational lists here, that you have also tried in the council to impose the appointment of the president of the commission outside any democratic process? i understand that you are trying to establish yourself here at european level, but i really have the impression that you are walking a little alone and, unlike your majority in france, european democracy is achieved here by and through consensus. therefore, mr president, if you continue in this way, i am afraid that the name of your new group here in parliament will not be 'in march' but 'in margin': on the margins of decisions and, above all, on the margins of the results to which we are trying to contribute here on a daily basis for our fellow citizens.
mr president, mr president of the republic, welcome to the european parliament. whether we are macrons or socialists, we need members of the european council who will advance the european question. the chairman of my group, udo bullmann, has offered you a deal. it is a franco-german agreement, but i think it is a good franco-german bargain: nuclear energy for coal. you haven't answered her, so i'm offering you an opportunity to do so. on the question of economic and monetary union, i believe that all the ideas are on the table. we share many of them, but obstacles arise day after day, even on weekends. if you want to make progress, you need those in this european parliament who know that it is with the community method and not with national egos that we can do it. what place do you intend to give to the community method and to this european parliament as the parliament of the euro area?
mr president, mr president of the republic, the french delegation of the alde group joins me in saying that it was important that you should recall here both values and sovereignty, or sovereignty. you have been the only candidate in europe in recent years to put these values forward in a speech to the people, at a time when the risk of an election campaign was high. so you are credible to bring them before us again. i should also like to say that, despite some errors in our assembly - some would like to raise the heads of the peoples while waiting for them to raise their arms, perhaps - a majority of this assembly agrees with you and wants more europe. i would like to stress, however, that while parliament is usually an integrating tool, the council is more than just the engine, it is the brake on the machine and often not the easiest place to get our work going. we therefore expect you to use the same enthusiasm to convince your colleagues in the council to follow parliament's spirit of integration. in any case, thank you again for reminding us of what was important to the people, namely europe.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we can only welcome the work undertaken by the un on migration. it is certainly an issue of international politics and it is time for europeans and our governments to take a less historically and ethnocentric view of these issues. it is a fact that international migration is increasing and, as the un secretary-general so well says, the majority of it is regular. but the west is no longer the center of it. migration has become global, regionalised. south-south migration now exceeds south-north migration. of the 258 million international migrants, 60 million are from europe, making it the continent with the most migratory and mobile people in proportion to its population. this is normal because europeans are very largely the ones who enjoy a real right to mobility, unlike the rest of the planet. and only half of their migration is intra-european. therefore, who better than europeans can show that migration is an opportunity and a wealth? we are the first to benefit from the right to migrate. let us therefore be aware that those who are in an irregular situation on our continent, those who risk their lives in the mediterranean sea, are first of all those who are deprived of this right to mobility, who have no regular migration route and who are fleeing from inhuman situations whose causes are difficult to unravel. we must welcome them with dignity rather than scapegoating them. the european union would grow if it fought for the universal right to migration and mobility. we all have the right to dream.
thank you, mr president, the un pacts on immigration are full of good intentions to justify the intensification of migration flows and to make legal the illegal immigration which you refuse to prevent, for ideological or economic reasons, to the detriment of the identities, security and even the sustainability of the european peoples. arrogant globalist elites are no longer even hiding their suicidal goal, such as un secretary-general guterres, declaring that "we must convince that migration is inevitable and that the multi-ethnic, multi-cultural and multi-religious societies that are being built are a wealth", or you, mr avramopoulos, who said last december "we must all be ready to accept immigration and diversity as the new norm, it is an imperative for our continent". but this imperative is criminal. the united states has made it clear that immigration policy should be made by americans alone. our duty is to think of the europeans first. that is why we must condemn these pacts and not applaud them.
mr president, the un's plan to establish a global pact on refugees is very worrying. it is based on the idea that mass migration is inevitable and that more and more migrants must be accepted, whether they are genuine political refugees or mere economic migrants. none of the reasons put forward to justify this forced immigrationism is convincing. europe's demographic decline must be fought by birth-control policies and not by immigration. the alleged wealth of cultural diversity is a mirage designed to mask the sinister reality of communitarianism. the argument based on respect for human rights cannot hide the fact that the first duty of a state is to ensure the security and preservation of the national identity of its people. what the world needs is not a global pact to promote immigration, but international cooperation that allows each state to ensure a decent life for its citizens within its borders.
mr president, your speech, mrs mogherini, raises more questions than it answers. firstly, why was it not revealed to us, particularly last month, that the eastern ghouta area was in fact in the hands of the radical islamic groups jaish al-islam, faelak al-rahman, ahrar al-sham, that they were the ones holding the civilian population hostage and that they were regularly firing rockets at the centre of damascus, particularly at the christian quarter of bab touma? secondly, the video which has shocked the whole world and which has recently aroused the fervor of the french president, is it known when it was taken, where it was taken, by whom and how? by the syrian observatory for human rights, entirely in the hands of the muslim brotherhood? thirdly, how is it that president trump concluded immediately afterwards that the use of the gases was material, when the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons, which was present on the spot, did not see any trace of it in its communiqué of 14 april, and even if it were found, as the previous speaker said, what would have been the point of president al-assad using it, when he was the victor on the ground and a corridor for the evacuation of his opponents had already been set up? there are many other questions we would like to ask about this.
mr president, the french, british and american governments therefore struck syria last saturday. this costly charade with almost zero results is yet another demonstration of the folly of the western chancelleries, unable to recognize that their policies add chaos to the chaos they themselves have created. where is the credibility of the united states, which denounces a violation of the chemical weapons convention, when it has not ratified the oslo and ottawa conventions on cluster munitions and anti-personnel mines? where is france, which is acting in violation of international law in the name of alleged moral values, but is turning a blind eye to the bombing in yemen that is killing thousands of civilians? where is the famous evidence that mr macron says is overwhelming the syrian army? madam high representative, you speak of a humanitarian emergency, but the european union maintains its economic sanctions against syria. this unjust attack encourages terrorist organizations to continue their heinous abuses. it is not i who say this, but the venerable patriarchs of antioch. you should listen to them.
mr president, madam high representative, we are witnessing today the death throes of the westphalian order in favour of the law of the strongest. what are the reasons for the moral obligation to prevent the use of chemical weapons? that is very commendable. in principle, we agree, but it is not enough that a fact is proven to conclude the identity of the author. this requires an independent and impartial investigation. furthermore, we must not underestimate the capabilities of the jihadists and the various groups - i am thinking of al-nusra, jaish al-islam, ahrar al-cham - in the field of chemical weapons. there are also several reports, including un reports, on the use of chemical weapons by daesh, at least twice in iraq and once in syria. on the other hand, making a chemical weapon does not require advanced technology, unlike nuclear weapons. this military intervention has been carried out outside international law and risks undermining diplomatic efforts to de-escalate the violence. we must give priority to dialogue and the search for an inclusive political solution, including the kurds and syrian civil society. we hope that this will be the case and that we can make progress at the brussels conference. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the question is "blue cardboard". mr president, i will be very brief, this is not really a question. i wanted to echo mrs lalonde's point and say that i was in possession of the original of such a report. this is the original of the latest report of the international organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons.
answer is "blue cardboard". it's great, mr. gollnisch, if you have the full report. i read it myself, so i can say it's the truth.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, beyond the legitimate strikes by france, the united kingdom and the united states against the barbaric acts of the bashar al-assad regime against its children and its own people, the situation in syria must also lead us to a double european reflection. first, the reform of multilateralism. the security council is blocked by russia's incessant vetoes, as are the missions of the international agency for the control of chemical weapons on the ground. it is essential to push for reform of the functioning of the security council to make progress when international law is objectively being flouted on the ground. then there is our ability to act together. can we talk about strategic autonomy when only one in five missiles fired at syria is european? we see here the whole challenge that we have to face in building a defence europe. these, commissioner, are the challenges that are added to the necessary resumption of international negotiations on syria.
madam president, in all things we must set an example. we cannot act against international law, we cannot act against our peoples and against the peoples. it has already happened in iraq and libya, why add syria? especially as far as gas is concerned, there is a 1993 convention which precisely requires, under international law, an investigation by the united nations, which came right after our bombing. did we have any evidence to hide? we are facing a situation that cannot continue. we must indeed be part of the un process, not just the geneva process but the astana process, because solutions cannot be found without russia, iran and turkey.
madam president, it is always surprising to see that the kremlin's friends are increasingly popular in this house, in european governments and on the european political scene, and that they are trying to make us believe that, in the end, it is europe that is attacking russia in this matter. it is a country that is still organizing the war on the borders of the european union and validating every bombing in syria. we know that journalists and political opponents are dying, and we know the plight of all those who work on human rights in russia. so if we are to be independent of russia, or at least less complacent, let's stop nord stream. president putin himself signed a paper that says the threat to russia's economic security is our energy savings and green technologies. so let's make a real energy transition, and we won't need russian gas, and then let's draw up a magnitsky list banning russians from european territory who are complicit in crimes in syria and elsewhere, freeze their assets and let's not go to the world cup... (the president withdraws the speaker)
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, turkey is continuing its provocations against greece and the republic of cyprus. for this, it knows that it can benefit from the cowardice and even complicity, one might say, of the brussels authorities. we see that your so-called european solidarity is just a vain word, especially when it comes to turning a blind eye to erdoğan's outrages and provocations. it's not time for vows anymore. would you like to make a gesture to these two greek officers? then suspend all relations with turkey until their release, which is non-negotiable. for my part, i urge the high representative for foreign affairs and security policy to demand their immediate release or to resign immediately because it is the policy of mrs mogherini, yesterday a communist, today a globalist, which gives the turkish government full latitude to act in the way that we know and see.
i have received, in accordance with rule 123 (2), two motions for resolutions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 19 april 2018.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by marietje schaake, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the implementation of the union's external financing instruments: mid-term review in 2017 and future architecture beyond 2020 (2017/2280 (ini)) (a8-0112/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 18 april 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- recommendation by francisco josé millán mon, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and australia, of the other part (15467/2016 - c8-0327/2017 - 2016/0367 ((nle)) (a8-0110/2018), and- report by francisco josé millán mon, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, containing a proposal for a non-legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the framework agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and australia, of the other part (2017/2227 ((ini)) (a8-0119/2018).
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 18 april 2018.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by mady delvaux, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, on the annual reports 2015-2016 on subsidiarity and proportionality (2017/2010(ini)) (a8-0141/2018).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, first of all, i can only see an improvement in the tone and content of this motion for a resolution on subsidiarity and proportionality compared with the previous ones. i am inclined to give the benefit of the doubt, but let me believe that, one year before the european elections, the only thing that is at stake is to continue, in another way, to misuse this principle of subsidiarity in order to serve the objectives of those who want ever greater european integration and sovereignty. in any event, i will continue to be vigilant about the respect and effective application of this fundamental principle by the european institutions. secondly, i welcome the growing use by national parliaments of the possibilities provided for in protocol no 2. i also welcome the initiatives of the 'green card' and renew my support for the creation of a 'red card' procedure. finally, i still think that the possibility of issuing a reasoned opinion should be extended throughout the legislative process or at least proposed at the beginning, middle and end of the legislative process. this is necessary because national parliaments are the true democratic heart of europe.
mrs. delvaux, we wish you the best possible success in this endeavor. the debate is closed. the vote will take place tomorrow, wednesday 18 april 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal. mr president, the committee on fisheries, which i chair, wished to deliver an opinion on the discharge to be given to the commission in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the union for the financial year 2016. i therefore present the conclusions of this report for your opinion. in the fisheries sector, we can see the efforts made by the commission to carry out its tasks. my opinion report mentions a high rate of implementation for both commitment and payment appropriations. however, i insist that the court of auditors should present, in its next reports, a separate error rate for fisheries and for maritime affairs. we will then be able to assess properly how the commission is managing this area. i would also like to point out the very low rate of use of the european maritime and fisheries fund by the member states. we must solve this problem as soon as possible. i hope that the discussions on the establishment of the new fund will provide an opportunity to find a solution.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a choice of civilization, of culture, where democracy and freedom are really at stake. there is only one way to break the gafa grip on society: by changing the business model. the data belongs to the person who gives it and, from the moment it is used, firstly, it must be paid for, and secondly, it must be given the consent of the person concerned. if the data is used without the consent of the person concerned, the penalty must be enormous, of the order of the company's turnover. we have to get out of this business model. i proposed it in a report to this parliament, which did not even want to discuss the report, but rewrote it! we are in total hypocrisy. as long as you don't want to get out of this economic model that allows total domination, monopoly and the grip on democracy by a few companies, you will be in hypocrisy. change the business model, then you'll be credible.
mr president, on 25 may the new european data protection rules will come into force, with the appropriate penalties. facebook and the other internet giants need to understand that our consent to the collection of our data is not negotiable, nor is our privacy for sale. the head of facebook has to come to the european parliament to explain himself. mark zuckerberg owes us more than just an apology or a vague announcement. it owes us guarantees on the processing of our data and more transparency on the origin of political advertising. once again, it was thanks to a whistleblower, christopher wylie, that this scandal was uncovered and the public was informed. yesterday, a former cambridge analytica executive revealed that the number of abused users was much higher than advertised. let's protect whistleblowers, let's protect personal data, let's protect all of those, all of those and all of those things that make our democracies breathe.
madam president, with over two billion people registered worldwide, facebook is the largest database that has ever existed. the situation today is clear: our privacy, our personal data, our virtual intimacy doesn't even belong to us anymore. they have become the de facto property of a few companies who take advantage of them to exploit these data for commercial purposes. we are no longer just consumers, we have become products to be sold. i have brought an action against the european commission to have cambridge analytica and facebook fined. i am aware that the new legislation on the protection of personal data is a first step, which is good and necessary, but it is not sufficient. i therefore propose that we go further by first requiring these platforms to no longer be able to use the data for commercial purposes, but also to no longer be able to collect, store or retain this personal data. the platforms are the vehicles of this data, that is the rule of the game, but there is no reason for them to become the operators, let alone the owners. i propose to you, i propose to us that we should set our own personal boundaries today because tomorrow it will be too late.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
in writing. while the cambridge analytica scandal is exceptional in its scale, with 87 million people involved, it should serve as a wake-up call to europeans. firstly, because in this period of collective hysteria over so-called populism or fake news, combined with anti-trumpism in the european institutions, it is necessary to be honest and to recognise the widespread exploitation of personal data for political or commercial purposes. the obama campaign, with its "obama for america" app, downloaded by about a million users, has introduced micro-targeting on a large scale. secondly, because this affair is breaking out while europe is lowering its guard. facebook has recently reintroduced a facial recognition app in europe, after its initial launch was blocked by an irish regulator in 2012. this new version already raises doubts about the collection of consent, which is mandatory under regulation 2016/679. whether it is data protection or privacy, it is therefore worrying to see how europe is clearly struggling to cope with the internet giants.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by krišjānis kariņš and judith sargentini, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive (eu) 2015/849 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering or terrorist financing and directive 2009/101/ec (com (2016) 0450 - c8-0265/2016 - 2016/0208 (cod)) (a8-0056/2017).
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, we have studied this text in the inta committee because international trade has unfortunately become a privileged instrument for tax evasion and money laundering. the european union must be more demanding in terms of fiscal and financial transparency vis-à-vis its trading partners. first, our threat must be credible. this is why we must make transparency and respect for international rules a real condition in our trade agreements. what does that mean? this means that we need to have a binding clause that ensures that a country has to commit itself to respecting the international rules of financial transparency and administrative cooperation. that's the first point. on the other hand, as legislators, we are still lagging behind the financial industry, which is innovating in tax optimisation but also, alas, in money laundering. the only way to respond to this is to adopt a method we are familiar with in trade negotiations: the method of positive lists, i.e. to ensure that, in a trade negotiation, the chapter dealing with the sector explicitly identifies, in a limited list, the financial services that are to be liberalised. these are, in my view, areas to be explored in trade negotiations to ensure that we are behind the bleaching and optimisation. this is in any case the political objective we have set ourselves.
mr. gualtieri, are you terrified?
mr president, madam commissioner, we cannot but stress the importance of the fight against money laundering in the fight against tax evasion, crime and terrorism. however, the current directive - as we know - has enormous shortcomings, both in its design and in the conditions for its application by the member states. it has not been adapted to the challenges we face today both at european and national level. this is legislation that is at least outdated both by the technological innovation of the financial system and by the new possibilities of hiding money through financial circuits, in the form of cryptocurrency, as many of my colleagues have already mentioned. the commission presented these legislative proposals in 2016 to combat money laundering and terrorist financing. these proposals are welcome in a context which has been totally shaken by the unfortunately far too high number of terrorist attacks, but also by the panama papers scandal. this revision is welcome, as it should make it possible to monitor capital flows from risky third countries more closely. banks will have to carry out more comprehensive checks, particularly on countries on the famous european blacklist of exposed countries. the revision will also clarify the structure of a company and a trust by identifying the beneficial owners through the creation of this national register of companies established in the territory of a member state or through the sharing of this information between member states. but the project was clearly flawed, and the european parliament's input would have been essential to facilitate the exchange of information, to ensure that a summary of this evaluation was made public, so that non-governmental organisations could have access to it, and to ensure that the information contained in the register was centralised and easily accessible. this is a step along the long road that the european parliament is ready to take forward, because the fight against money laundering and the financing of terrorism remains a major objective for our parliament.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, it has been more than two years since the dieselgate scandal broke. everyone knew: the car manufacturers, the states, the commission. our mission in the european parliament was to put an end to this impunity. what have we done? no recalls, no real compensation for consumers, no fines for manufacturers who cheated. mr dalton, there is indeed progress in your report, but the creation of an independent agency to monitor the car market has been prevented in the european parliament at the very moment when mr trump wants to abolish the equivalent american agency so that he can pollute at will. but, colleagues, we are facing emergencies. first, 30 million garbage trucks are still polluting our roads. the second urgent problem is the disease of the 21st century: air pollution, which still causes 400 000 premature deaths a year. so i'm telling you, even if this report is a breakthrough, it's not enough to close this dieselgate thing to move on to a real post-dieselgate.
for the greens/efa group i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new directive on the protection of workers from the risks arising from exposure to asbestos. i regret the absence of the council today because the issue of dieselgate is first and foremost a question of the schizophrenia of the states which were aware of the fraud, as was said earlier. the problem is that if the umbilical cord between the national authorities, between type-approval certificates and manufacturers is not broken, the solution cannot be found because the automobile industry is simply too important for these countries. so we have made progress on this issue, but we have failed to make europe stand up and take responsibility for these approvals through the commission and a new agency. we have made progress, but we still have a long way to go and i look to the commission to propose texts to this effect in the months and years to come.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank our rapporteur, martin häusling, for his tenacity and selflessness in this report. we've had four presidencies. we have therefore reached a result which today has been worth the collective effort we have made. i would have liked to see us go further in this new regulation, particularly on the question of thresholds. however, this new legislation brings very substantial advances for organic farming, for the farmer and for the consumer. it will make it possible to strengthen the fight against fraud in imported organic products, which today, as we know, account for 30% of our consumption. european producers will now be placed on an equal footing with producers in third countries. i welcome the fact that this text now allows organic farmers to produce and use their own seeds. this regulation finally opens the door to heterogeneous material. the food chain needs to be rebalanced and the red carpet rolled out to agrochemical oligopolies must be stopped. today, three groups account for more than 53% of the world seed market. the compromise also provides for more targeted controls and annual controls remain and will remain the rule. the principle of plant-soil linkage is also enshrined, which is a great thing for organic farming. the introduction of precautionary measures finally requires that organic products be prevented from being contaminated by pesticides. this is a remarkable breakthrough. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council should be given the opportunity to adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. it was said that it was essential to support farmers in this essential transition to a sustainable model, which respects human health and the environment and which our citizens are increasingly calling for. i repeat: we must move quickly, commissioner, because this new regulation is an important step, but it is not the finish line.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, this report has one merit: it is somewhat concerned with introducing a certain requirement for the traceability of agricultural products. this traceability is essential so that the consumer knows not only where the products he eats come from, but also the standards by which they arrive on his plate, which is something we have been asking for a long time. granted, some adjuvants may not be organic. however, we are particularly pleased that it is finally possible to use farmers' seeds again, which is a major step forward. two positive aspects are associated with their use: the freedom and autonomy regained by farmers in their choice and their know-how in the field of seeds and plants. similarly, unlike the pesticide-fertilizer system, which requires a limited number of varieties, farmers' seeds help preserve biodiversity and natural resources. the requirements are also tightened in international trade. finally, group certification is an opportunity for small producers. that is why we shall vote in favour of the report, even though we consider that progress is still far too limited.
mr president, this is a transitional text with positive aspects: stricter controls on the supply chain, the return of old farmer's seeds, measures to prevent contamination by pesticides. but this text, in my view, misses two challenges in the sector. first, the challenge of unfair international competition and, therefore, of organic food sovereignty. france, for example, imports almost 30% of organic products from third countries, whose national certification requirements are often less stringent. the aim is to abolish the system of recognition of equivalence and not simply to amend it in order to introduce, if necessary, a new and adapted compliance system. then there's the challenge of means. we cannot claim organic for all and then cancel the two and a half billion in aid for maintaining organic production as the government of édouard philippe is doing. these objectives of means must be clearly stated in the regulation. it is necessary to make organic, but organic in the service of a new agricultural and food model.
mr president, commissioner, i warmly congratulate the colleagues on their long-term work, and the commissioner for that matter. the text we are about to vote - i am convinced of this - contains good progress for a sector that is attracting more and more europeans and opens up prospects, particularly in livestock farming. while the conventional sector is facing increasing difficulties, the demand for organic products is growing and is now a valuable tool for the development of our rural areas. quality must be on the agenda, and this will be possible with strengthened internal and external controls. at the same time, these controls must be adapted to the situation on the ground with the possibility of spacing them if no anomaly is found for a period of three years. secondly, since almost half of the organic products sold in the european union are imported, it is essential that those from third countries comply with the same production standards as those we apply in our member states. finally, thanks to our institution, the diversity of farms is recognised, which i hope will encourage many farmers to switch to organic farming.
mr president, commissioner, the aim of this new text is to create a truly coherent community framework, simplifying procedures and providing consumer safety. this text reassures producers who were afraid that we would relax the regulations. we have made it more realistic and we are giving visibility to those who want to invest in organic production. biology is now a real technical route. producers in the outermost regions are not forgotten - which they also feared - since the specific constraints on them can be taken into account. we are counting on you, commissioner, to make sure that they are. the consumer was afraid that we would lift the controls and thus call into question the seriousness of production. on the contrary, we are now proposing a more robust control system. the consumer will also be able to have more confidence in imported products, since they will have to comply with european regulations. the word 'conform' appears in articles 44 and 45 of the text. i think it is now up to the producers to take up this new 'bible', as our colleague mr häusling has called it. i do not know whether the negotiating team has been touched by the grace of god, nor do i know whether i should bow to this or that eminent person, but i do salute the work done.
on behalf of the enf group. commissioner, even if the actions taken by the directorate-general for competition were late in combating the tax haemorrhages of multinational companies in european states, it must be acknowledged that they are in the right direction for the nations. but the european commission also had to redeem itself from all the perverse effects of your free trade and borderless ideology, i.e. the problems of fiscal dumping and unfair competition which did not exist before the european union! in the area of financial services, it is exactly the same: the directorate-general for competition should prevent the adverse effects of the policies of the ssm (single european supervisor) and the ecb on the forced concentration of banking sectors in the euro area. the ssm is preparing the conditions for the takeover of our national banks by the national banking giants. to finance themselves, individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises in our european states do not need giant wall street banks or offshore capital markets, they simply need relationships of trust and total and local banking financing. the role of the european union is to defend the interests of citizens against the private interests of global financial lobbies and not the other way around. this is a europe close to europeans.
madam president, madam commissioner, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur and the whole group that worked with him on the work they have done. i think this report shows that we need an effective competition policy for the balance of society. the question also raised by this report and what it demonstrates is that at some point the policy of the consumer citizen must not be contrary to the interest of the working citizen. in the course of the past year, we have had the opportunity, with the omnibus text, to make progress in a number of sectors, notably agriculture. the european commission last week proposed a new text on practices in the supply chain. we must indeed ensure that there is a balance between the interests of all. the commission has been discussing cartels for weeks, or even months, but why have we not yet heard the results of this work? however, the agreements are a lasting burden on the markets, to the detriment of the economy of our area.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam minister, i cannot express to you the sense of shame that we as european legislators can feel today. we are facing a situation which, as you know, is extremely dramatic. smes, small businesses, smes are obliged to pay their taxes and follow the rules, while large companies hide behind the 'opacity' because 'it's all talked about' to try to avoid taxes. for almost two years, following consultations with european citizens and scandals, we have been calling, behind and with the commission and with the support of two legal services, the commission and parliament, for the transparency of this information. it's a matter of balance, madam minister. it's not a tax issue. we cannot stand behind this bogus argument and not act. i really ask you to take this matter to heart.
madam president, i do not think this resolution addresses the vaccine hesitancy issue. people are not against vaccination, but they have lost confidence. one of the first problems is the conflicts of interest of the experts who decide on the vaccination schedule. commissioner, when the h1n1 flu came, who made the decision? it was an opaque panel of experts from who that decided it was a pandemic. however, an investigation at the council of europe level showed that this pandemic was completely untrue, that it had been created out of thin air and that this committee of experts was paid by the pharmaceutical industry. the second problem is the adjuvants. look at all the controversy over aluminum. while animal studies show neurotoxic effects, no studies in humans or children have been performed. third problem, the vaccine is a drug. all medicines are studied for pharmacokinetics, but not vaccines. in other words, the fate of their constituents in the human body is unknown. commissioner, i am officially asking you to impose pharmacokinetic studies on all vaccines. trust will not be imposed by coercion, it will be imposed by education, transparency and product safety.
member of the commission. – madam president, first, let me start by pointing out that all of the participating member states have transposed the directive on the european protection order. the commission will issue the report on the application of the directive on the epo later this year. however, only today, the data already made available by the member states also confirms that only a handful of european protection orders have been issued so far, as was rightly stated by the rapporteurs. we share your view that we have to improve awareness among practitioners about this instrument. this is why we are actively promoting the epo. in particular, for now, we have collected practical information about national authorities competent to issue and recognise a european protection order. this is published on the websites of the european judicial networks in criminal matters and in civil matters. we have prepared an electronic version of the certificate on european protection orders in civil matters. this is quite a useful tool for judges. it is published on the e-justice portal. we have also funded training materials on the epo for judges. this information will soon be available on a dedicated training platform, also on the e-justice portal. the commission continues to fund activities under the justice, judicial training, and rights, equality and citizenship programmes which can include awareness-raising campaigns on european protection orders. we also continue to raise awareness with national experts from member states; most recently, on 29 january this year, at the high level experts meeting on victims’ rights. finally, the commission is carefully monitoring how member states have transposed the provisions of the victims’ rights directive requiring that victims must be informed about available protection, including in cross—border cases, from the first—contact authorities.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very important subject in this house this morning. the subject is important not only for the functioning of the european institutions, but also for the citizens, and in particular the european citizens who are victims of violence and who suffer this type of attack on their integrity. i remember that in 2010, in the 'victims' package, there were many of us in this house who worked hard to make an important, useful tool that protects victims in europe a reality. for us europeans, it was at the same time a legal and logical expression of european integration. in parallel with the mobility of europeans, we proposed, with this tool, protection for european women, especially when they are victims of violence. it is a sad fact, as the rapporteurs have pointed out, and it is good to take stock of the use of the tools, that there have been seven protection decisions. this figure has no relation to the number of victims in europe. today, of course, we can see the multitude of reasons: information, the diversity of national legislation, cooperation which is not sufficiently advanced. of course, we must insist on and really achieve results on information, training and mobilisation of states. we are counting on the commission and the member states to do so.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, this report reports on the implementation by the member states of the european protection decision system. it consists of applying throughout the union, for a convicted offender, a measure of removal, a ban on going to certain places or a ban on approaching his victim within a certain distance. on paper, this could be a very good thing, as the system should effectively protect a victim from further abuse. however, implementation becomes complicated or impossible because of the reality of a european union of 28. implementation is complicated, because it is necessary to change the law of several member states, without infringing the principle of subsidiarity and without doing so with sanctions that are and would be counterproductive for the women we need to protect. implementation is impossible, because controlling the movements of an aggressor in a borderless area as vast as schengen would require considerable resources and perfect cooperation between the police and legal services of the member states. how can you claim to protect women, children, the most vulnerable, when a terrorist is able to cross three states after committing a deadly attack? how do you want to protect a woman who is a victim of violence when entire neighborhoods of our cities are becoming no-go zones for women? the protection system that already exists in the member states is a good thing, but the limits you have imposed on it in a europe without frontiers make it ineffective. if we can find pragmatism and common sense, then the cause of women and their protection could become one of the priorities of cooperation between european nations.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the bologna process, which has been widely imitated abroad, has indeed made diplomas compatible, but it has also accelerated the brain drain within the european union itself. the bologna process was not without its perverse effects. the extension and mass distribution of higher education has been the trend which has had the foreseeable consequence of devaluing diplomas. for the cohorts of the sacrificed generation, who are struggling on the reefs of mass unemployment, diplomas are no longer a guarantee against demobilization or poverty. against this background, the insistence on the inclusion of refugees is a real cover for millions of young europeans who will be the big losers from the opening up of academic programmes, as some, such as erasmus+, already suffer from insufficient funding. with this proposal, the european union reveals its true nature, which is that of systematic foreign preference in disregard of the aspirations of the peoples who make it up. the budgetary increases are necessary, but it is better if they are well used.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, who is responsible for a situation? the ones who create it or the ones who try to fix it? it is the same here, where immigrants are being brought in by the thousands, even by the millions, to areas which are already areas of trafficking, of lawlessness, where, in the end, behind poverty, there is also the regulation of crime. after decades of laxity and corruption, the philippines - which i know well - has become a country where drug addiction is rampant. faced with a structured army of nearly 200,000 organised crime men, the president is trying to restore the rule of law and save the population, 80% of whom follow him in his enterprise. his methods are shocking - they shock me too - but not more than those of bombing iraq and libya, or inventing the skripal case against russia or finding chemical weapons to bomb against international law.
mr. president, despite many calls from the community, concerned about the increase in drug-related killings, philippine president rodrigo duterte is still in his boots. worse, it is locked in a hostile attitude towards the international criminal court and allows all the regressions on the democratic level: the desire to re-establish the death penalty, multiple provocations against minorities, vexations against civil society, verbal attacks against women, even going so far as to ask for their rape or murder! this is clearly unacceptable, which is why we must strongly demand an end to the abuses and remind the philippine authorities of their international commitments. the exclusion of this state from the un human rights council before the end of its current mandate is one way, but other sanctions, including economic sanctions, could be used.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, there are too many colleagues who are turning the tables. what is this sentence that israel would have the right to defend its border? israel doesn't even know its own borders. on the other hand, it is israel that occupies palestine and is turning gaza into an open-air prison that the un has said will become uninhabitable by 2020 if nothing is done. who, what conscience here, what human conscience can accept that? this country violates every chapter of international law and the letter and spirit of the association agreement we have with it. at least 40 people were killed in gaza, including children, peasants and journalists who were completely unarmed during a peaceful protest. the european union itself must demand and initiate an independent commission of inquiry, create a mechanism to protect the palestinian people, lift the blockade of gaza and stop the process of colonisation, destruction of homes and evictions in jerusalem. in the name of international law, sanctions must now be imposed on the israeli government.
mr president, as several speakers have said, the humanitarian situation in gaza is particularly worrying and dramatic. it is said to be the largest open-air prison in the world. israel says it is defending itself, but in fact it is attacking and does not respect human rights or human life. we have a duty here to denounce this violence and to investigate independently what is happening in this part of the world. we must demand an end to the blockade of gaza and allow humanitarian organisations to intervene. the two-state solution, which we are calling for, will finally bring an end to this conflict which has lasted almost a century. the european union must do everything possible to achieve this, including, if necessary, withdrawing from the agreements with israel.
mr president, mr juncker, commissioner oettinger, the financial framework which you are presenting to us is a political document of fundamental importance. and we were so prepared for the worst that we would have to be satisfied today with a proposal which is not very dynamic and we still have to wait for the blowback that will come from the european council. but what i want to say to you is that the reality of your proposal is the weakening of all policies where we do not have exclusive and shared competence. i am thinking of the reduction in the budget for cohesion policy, the reduction in the budget for fishermen, the reduction in the budget for agriculture, and this to finance new policies which are not obligations for the european union: security policy, defence policy and fortress europe. we are therefore sacrificing traditional policies to finance obligations which are not those of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to pay tribute to your proposal because your task was really to square the circle. i think that at first sight you have met the council's expectations, in particular to limit the volume of this budget, given that the european development fund is now included. we welcome the effort to clarify the budget, the emphasis on research and the abolition of rebates which must disappear as a result of brexit, but we contest its spread over five years and the insufficiency of the direct payments of the common agricultural policy and the erasmus+ envelope, which would only be doubled instead of being tripled as parliament is asking. while recent national elections give credence to candidates who are critical of the way the european union works, it is vital to remember that the budget must first and foremost meet the expectations of european citizens. in addition to actions to promote social and territorial cohesion, employment and training, the employability of young people in particular, economic policy coordination, and the strengthening of euro area governance, there is an urgent need to assess the effectiveness of certain sovereign prerogatives exercised at national level and to recognise the urgency of taking them on now at european level, whether in defence and security, the fight against terrorism, the digital economy, cyberattacks, climate protection, fraud and tax havens. it is in these areas that it is easy to demonstrate what european added value could be. we have an exciting task ahead of us. parliament is ready. it also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the financial framework for the period after 2020 is fully implemented. we look forward to the council's negotiating mandate and to reaching a draft multiannual financial framework as soon as possible, giving europe the power it needs to convince europeans that it is preparing their future and protecting them from the threats posed by globalisation.
mr president, this next multiannual financial framework will decide the fate of our continent because, behind the question of means, there is of course the burning question of purpose: what kind of europe do we want for tomorrow? this is no surprise, i want a strong europe, able to help the member states meet the real challenges of the 21st century. by setting itself an ambitious budget, europe must therefore show that it is ready to act and that it is able to manage its future despite the shortfall caused by the departure of the united kingdom. in negotiations with the council, we will ensure that efforts on research, innovation and the digital transformation of the continent are sustained. the effort seems enormous, but it is the least europe can do to keep up with the technological revolution under way. as regards defence policy, the commission's proposal gives a real impetus and a vision for the future to the european defence fund, both for research and for the development of common capabilities. this is essential if we are to set up large, competitive european projects and increase our strategic autonomy. as for space policy, it will continue to develop to give the union independent access to space and to develop the use of space data on a large scale for the benefit of our citizens and our businesses. finally, no more erasmus+ and support for our farmers. we will need our own resources, of course, and perhaps an increase in our national contributions. make no mistake, behind the pharmacist's accounts, history is being written. if the ends justify the means, then it is time for member states to take responsibility: what kind of europe do they want to build?
mr president, commissioner, i think you are assuming that i am very disappointed and i would like to say that no, unfortunately the commission's proposal is not the result of work with parliament but the result of submission to the member states. if we like your offensive proposal on own resources, on the other hand, we are not on the same page on expenditure, which is our full and exclusive competence. not only is your 1.1% ceiling for 27 countries leading to unprecedented reductions in the union's history, but your political priorities do not always coincide with ours. however, this parliament voted clearly in march: to maintain the cap and cohesion, to ensure the energy and ecological transition, to boost the union's flagship policies by tripling erasmus+, by doubling the youth guarantee and the biodiversity programme, by increasing research and innovation. it would also have been necessary to implement the social pillar, to respect the paris agreements, and to build on the objectives of sustainable development. we will have the opportunity to go into more detail tomorrow morning, but i would like to mention the rule of law. this parliament had made a proposal, and you reduced it to the variable of budgetary adjustment. we proposed sanctions that punish those responsible, you unfairly target all citizens. commissioner, you have returned your copy. it is now up to the council to work with parliament to reach an agreement. but this parliament, rest assured, will not abandon its commitments because a budget does not lie and everyone, on his ambitions, will have to assume his responsibilities.
mr president, i shall be hearing from a european, from a european of the europe of nations, and also from a supporter of president trump. after the second world war, the havana charter for peace called for us to balance our external accounts, for the surpluses of some to be the deficits of others, as mrs lagarde says. and if some countries have too large a surplus, they are, in a way, waging war on countries with large deficits. let us look at our figures, we have a surplus of 68 billion against the united states: germany; we have a surplus of 150 billion against the united states, while we have a deficit of 120 billion against china. so here is what you should do, if you were real europeans: tax china to get new revenue and do what it takes to balance our trade with the united states. president trump is right!
commissioner, in 2012, with philippe maystadt, president of the european investment bank, i proposed the establishment of an investment agency to promote national synergies at european level, but also to develop new projects. this is the europe of nations. the juncker plan's mistake is that it financed projects that would have been financed anyway - the "lucky thing" - without new development dynamics in southern europe, but also development and security in africa. the combination of a european investment agency to be built on national bases, a european development plan, the setting up of projects in countries in difficulty, capital financing and the mobilisation of private actors is indispensable. the current policy does not sufficiently address this need. it is therefore useless if we do not concurrently run a european investment and development agency built on the basis of the synergies of the europe of nations.
the rapporteur. madam commissioner, madam president, as rapporteur on the protection of the european union's financial interests for 2016, my first objective is to ensure that public money from taxpayers is used properly within the european union. the proper management of public expenditure and the protection of the union's financial interests must be our priority. the results for 2016 in terms of protection of financial interests and the fight against fraud are generally positive. the adoption of the directive on the protection of financial interests and the forthcoming creation of a european public prosecutor's office are two successes that deserve to be highlighted. these advances will help us better protect the money and interests of european taxpayers and facilitate the recovery of eu funds used fraudulently. however, i regret that not all member states were willing to participate in the establishment of this european public prosecutor's office (20 out of 28 member states). in terms of the actual results, i would like to welcome the 15% reduction in fraudulent and non-fraudulent irregularities and the 8% decrease in their value compared to 2015. unfortunately, the very high number of irregularities still found in the fields of rural development, cohesion policy and fisheries is a matter of deep concern. i sincerely hope that the simplification of administrative rules announced will reduce the number of non-fraudulent irregularities, detect fraudulent cases and improve beneficiaries' access to eu funds. i would then like to return to some specific aspects of my report. firstly, i consider the undervaluation of customs duties on chinese products to be the major political issue in this report. as you know, between 2013 and 2016, chinese imports of clothing and footwear destined for the black market were undervalued when they entered the uk. the report also mentions the fact that the cost of the trousers was a ridiculous 91 cents per kilo, compared with the usual 26 euros per kilo. on 8 march 2018, the european commission opened an infringement procedure against the united kingdom in order to recover the €2 billion that would normally have benefited the eu budget. i would like to welcome the launch of this procedure, madam commissioner. in my view, the recovery of this shortfall must be discussed in the context of the brexit budget negotiations. the socialist and democratic group will be particularly attentive to this. secondly, i call on the european commission to submit as soon as possible a legislative proposal on the protection of whistleblowers, as requested by the european parliament's report of 24 october 2017 on this crucial issue. i also encourage the european commission and the member states to adopt measures to protect the confidentiality of information sources in order to prevent any discriminatory action or threats against whistleblowers. thirdly and lastly, i would like to return more fully to our fight against the illicit trade in tobacco products. as chairman of the european parliament's working party on tobacco industry interference, i would like to point out that 12% of the 6 000 billion cigarettes sold worldwide each year are the subject of illicit trade. the consequences are obviously health-related and as vice-chairman of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety i would like to stress that counterfeit or smuggled cigarettes are cheaper, more easily accessible to young people and more dangerous. the eradication of illicit trade in tobacco would reduce consumption by 2%. in the face of this challenge to combat this illicit trade, we must implement a comprehensive strategy to combat effectively this illicit trade in tobacco. these are the various observations or findings i wanted to make in my opening remarks on this report on the protection of the union's financial interests for 2016.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, thank you very much to all colleagues for the positive comments and observations on my report. commissioner, in the remaining minute i wanted to say that many of our colleagues have already touched on the need to combat the illicit trade in tobacco and so, as i said in my report, i simply want to draw your attention to a few points. first, not to renew the european union's cooperation agreements with british american tobacco, japan tobacco international and imperial tobacco limited, as we did with philip morris on 9 july 2016. second, to encourage the remaining nine member states - belgium, denmark, finland, greece, ireland, the netherlands, the united kingdom, slovenia and sweden - to ratify very quickly the world health organisation's protocol to eliminate illicit trade in tobacco products, and finally to bring the levels of taxation of tobacco products in europe closer together. these are the points i wanted to make in closing our debate.
in writing. the commission's seriousness in tackling financial corruption is questionable given its lack of zeal in tackling tax havens. similarly, the tragedies of the murder of two investigative journalists did not receive the attention that the gravity of the facts demanded. some fraud, such as the 'carrousel' vat system, is only possible with the abolition of internal border controls in the european union. however, given the size of the amounts at stake, with vat fraud causing a shortfall of around €50 billion (2015), there is an urgent need to strengthen the police and judicial response. i cannot, however, support the proposal for a european public prosecutor's office, which would infringe the national sovereignty of the member states in judicial matters. i also question the legitimacy of olaf to conduct any investigation, let alone to impose financial penalties on certain member states. the body does not comply with the contradictory rules of procedure and clarifications must also be made on its investigation methods.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the main european transport routes are used to transport products to all corners of the continent, products obtained through undeniable social dumping. mr rapporteur, you say that your objective is to 'build a strong single market for a competitive europe'. yes, but at what cost? making slaves manufacture to sell to the unemployed is in fact the real currency of the european union and essential transport infrastructure is one of the tools of this. you want to tackle bottlenecks by making it easier for trucks, which are increasing in number, to pass. the human or ecological consequences are irrelevant, since this will allow the most important thing: to increase the profits of opportunistic companies. as regards environmental protection, i note that while the sustainability of transport is once again being raised as a standard, there is nothing in this report about the essential role that rail and inland waterway transport could play in tackling these bottlenecks.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, this house should not have to comment on decisions taken by the judicial institutions of the member states, which are supposed to be independent. that is why my group has opposed today, in principle, the addition of this debate to the agenda. however, in the face of the pathetic spectacle of moral decay and the general wreckage of our societies, i must also share a little of my deep unease with you. this intolerable case of gang rape in spain echoes many other cases before it, which did not have the honour of your indignation. i am thinking, for example, of the child in france whose rape has also been reclassified as sexual assault, but also and above all of the thousands of young english girls who have been the victims for more than 30 years of organized networks of paedophiles and rapists from pakistan in britain. thousands over 30 years. the local authorities, knowing full well what was going on, did not dare to react in order to avoid any accusation of racism. and here, i have not heard any echo from you since the revelation of this case and the only response i hear to every debate on these cases is your desire and your strength to absolutely want to ratify the istanbul convention.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, hungry, with burned skin and eyes, thousands are condemned every year to terrible suffering in the dark cellars of the world's scientific laboratories. this is an abuse which, despite article 13 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, does not spare us. while 80% of countries still allow these practices, which are also mandatory for the import of cosmetics into china, it is the reach regulation on chemicals that has allowed the world's largest animal testing campaign, sometimes in defiance of the 2009 cosmetics ban. the scandal is both a mockery of scientific progress in the field of substitution methods, particularly through the use of human cells, and a massive condemnation by world public opinion. europe, with its political and economic preeminence, must finally make its words and deeds ring true by guaranteeing absolute respect for animal welfare, a guarantee of the degree of civilization of a human society.
mr president, chemical injections into the eyes, force feeding and inhalation, animal experiments in the field of cosmetics are often unsustainable and should no longer be done today. the legislation in force is satisfactory in europe, even if it is imperfect, but it is not so in the rest of the world, hence the idea that i supported of an international convention on the matter. as coordinator of the envi committee, i had in fact proposed to my colleagues that we should think globally and not just about cosmetics. the real progress made in developing alternative methods to these cruel tests, including in the medical field, is proof that animal testing is not mandatory, as some people sometimes want us to believe. one problem, though, remains: most of the ingredients used in cosmetics are the same as those used in pharmaceuticals, detergents, and even some foods. in these cases, animal testing is legally regulated by the tests authorised under the reach regulation. it is therefore urgent to extend the scope of the problem to animal testing in general. for example, almost a year ago, a cosmetics brand which had spoken out against animal testing gave in to pressure from an asian market by allowing animal testing in the country in question. this is therefore an additional limitation of the current framework when the marketing of products tested on animals takes place outside the european union. the latter can no longer act, hence the need for a worldwide international convention.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, farming is one of the occupations with not only the highest number of accidents but also the highest number of occupational diseases and premature deaths. cancer is the leading cause of death among farmers, and in particular cancer linked to the use of chemicals. on this point, commissioner, we must support the transition with dedicated means and abandon as soon as possible the use of these products, of which farmers are the first victims. the second cause of death among farmers - and i would like to take this opportunity, if i may, to return to this point - is suicide. this is the socio-occupational category most at risk in this respect. the excess mortality from suicide among farmers is 20 to 30 times higher than the average population. in france, one farmer commits suicide every two days. in the last two years, nearly 300 farmers have committed suicide in my country. the lack of income and cash, often linked to the poor functioning of markets, affects the psychological state of our farmers who only need to live from their work. we must, commissioner, secure their incomes and, to that end, guarantee prices. this requires, as you know, the implementation of market regulation tools. this is one of the major challenges of the future reform.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the question of the accidents affecting our farmers, however pertinent and unfortunately tragic it may be, must raise the commission's overwhelming responsibilities in a more general way. the commission has been in commission for 25 years. it is the executor of the lowly works of the globalist interests and, of course, of those of the united states. by dismantling the aid to our farmers, it is responding to globalist and american orders to make them disappear. from the mansholt plan to the so-called reformed cap, the disappearance of our traditional family farming is planned. the commission is responsible and guilty for the misery of farmers, from accidents to mass suicide - one suicide every two days in my country, france. the commission is disappearing as part of another europe at the service of the nations and first of all of its peasants. our farmers must live and live with dignity from the fruit of their hard work.
mr president, commissioner, i welcome the work we have been able to do with mrs herranz garcía on the sheep and goat question. these sectors play a vital role in preserving jobs in difficult sectors, but also in preserving ecosystems and preventing avalanches, floods and forest fires. at a time when the commission is proposing unprecedented cuts in the agricultural budget, i would like to remind you that the support of the cap is extremely important for these sectors and for the development of our territories. i am also pleased that this report raises the delicate issue of wolf predation, which is becoming more frequent. this plague is a real threat to the survival of farms, especially those in the open, practising pastoralism. i am asking for our farmers to be adequately compensated for the losses they have suffered, but also for the trauma left by the attacks of these large predators. the habitat directive, now outdated, needs to be amended. finally, i am pleased that my amendment calling for the exclusion of the sheep and goat sectors from trade negotiations with third countries has been adopted. our routes must be defended and our territories protected.
in writing. this report aims to give an overview of the situation and prospects of two fragile but very important livestock sectors in europe: the goat and sheep sectors. it is the result of collective work and i would like to commend the work of my colleague esther herranz garcia. this report presents some ideas and proposals for developing the sector: better support under the cap, promotion and market segmentation, increased use of supply management tools for quality cheeses with a request to extend these tools to meat, and derogations from competition law introduced by the omnibus regulation. he also mentions the dangers facing the sector: brexit with the future new zealand and australian tariff quotas, and more broadly trade agreements on the one hand, and the health issue and the proliferation of predators, which increases the pressure on the herds and our farmers on the other. these proposals are on the table. i hope that we will be able to complete these projects together, particularly with the reform of the cap from next june, for the development of these sectors.
mr president, the demonstration in paris on 1 may was marred by very serious violence. 1200 masked men raided paris and confronted the police with hammers and molotov cocktails. these individuals belong to the black bloc, an anarchist movement born in germany in the 1980s. the 'black bloc' is not only challenging the french republic by regularly ravaging cities, notably in my constituency, such as nantes and rennes, it is challenging the whole of the european union and, beyond that, the whole world. for example, 8,000 of its members ransacked hamburg in july 2017 during the g20 summit. the european union cannot remain silent in the face of the violence perpetrated by this far-left militia. if it wants to prove worthy of the values it has always advocated, it must condemn the 'black bloc', but it is the states, which are solely responsible for the security of their territory, which must act sovereignly as a last resort and dissolve this nihilistic group.
the term itself is quite inappropriate regardless of the sex of the person, ma'am.
the agenda calls for votes. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
this closes the voting period.
madam president, in 2013 we banned animal testing for cosmetics in the european union. but five years later, we see that the flaws persist and the practice is eventually relocated and many cosmetic products produced abroad are sold on the european market. it is good that our european parliament is today calling for a worldwide ban on these products, but we must go further by banning the sale of these products on the european market. i would also like to say that we must rise to the demands of our time today. it is not acceptable that animals should be martyred or sacrificed for any kind of coquetry. this is not worthy of the human species and we must go further to promote alternatives to animal testing today.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
mr president, on 26 october last, right here, we adopted a resolution against sexual harassment in the european parliament. it's may 28th and the road map is still unknown. apparently three issues are problematic, which may not be in the road map: the training of members, the composition of the committee and the external audit. i would remind you that this resolution was adopted by a very large majority, almost unanimously. mr president, i would like to remind you, with all due respect, that the vote in plenary of this parliament must be respected. so i would like, please, to have an answer, since the last time i called you, you didn't answer me. can you tell us where we are today in the application and implementation of this roadmap?
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, we are presented with this package, which is a series of measures which are a bit too general for the road sector, a little late. you are right, we can have agreements on road safety and that will be a priority, but i would like to stress two main points. firstly, on the climate issue: the co2 standard is too low for trucks. you say minus 30% by 2030, when we all agreed at cop 21 and you were there on a minimum target of minus 40%. in addition, according to the roadmap, trucks under 16 tonnes will not be affected, whereas the entire road sector must make efforts to combat global warming. secondly, mrs bulc, you are right about the autonomous car. we cannot see it coming onto our roads until there is specific legislation. these vehicles need to be supervised from the start, because they raise real questions, in particular about cybersecurity, data access and liability in the event of an accident. their control cannot be entrusted to the current, very largely failing european system, which did not see the 'dieselgate' coming. this is the way forward for the future of the autonomous vehicle, which will replace individual mobility with shared mobility.
mr president, commissioner, since the management of fish stocks is an exclusive competence of the european union, the legislative acts adopted must be the most scientifically relevant. i therefore support the intention to define the concept of 'best available scientific advice' by linking it to scientific advice reviewed by the international council for the exploration of the sea, which is competent in this field. it also supports the idea of joint stock management with third countries, such as norway and the united kingdom, which will soon leave the european union. in reality, the management of demersal stocks in the north sea concerns only a minority of member states and, at the same time, requires common management beyond the european union alone. the sustainable exploitation of marine biological resources is therefore proof that concrete action between states is a matter of course and that the european union is not the alpha and omega of cooperation.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report is of the utmost importance. european policies are creating price volatility in the markets. it is therefore important to integrate into the cap tools to ensure our food sovereignty and to protect farmers' income. i thank my colleague, mr herbert dorfmann, for including in his report my proposals adopted by the envi committee. the commission proposal suggests that the cap will be renationalized. it is the duty of the european parliament to remind that this policy must remain a common policy, otherwise we will create distortions of competition within the single market itself. the cap must have a harmonised environmental ambition at european level and thus help farmers who want to go further in more environmentally friendly practices. we must promote environmental and economic performance and recognise the essential role of farmers as the first environmentalists. i therefore ask the commissioner to take account of our remarks and recommendations, which are being made within a very tight timetable, and not to rush through yet another reform which would be sloppy. european farmers deserve better than this.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, mr rapporteur, if only the next cap could be different from the present one. when the european union presented the cap 2014-2020, it congratulated itself, congratulated itself, and even sent a message of hope to the rural world: agriculture was going to be greener, more profitable, more respectful of the territories. the cap would even allow farmers to make a decent living from their work and so on. we are now at the dawn of the present cap and the dawn of the next. have all these wishes come true? ask the producers if their situation has improved. ask the grain growers if they are happy to sell their grain below their cost of production. ask the cattle, sheep and goat sectors whether they welcome free trade agreements. interview the peasants. they are the users, and they will therefore be the best and the only judges of the common agricultural policy. we shall vote on the parliament's position on the future cap on wednesday. it is a fairly complete text which again contains many fine promises - and i would point out that they only bind those who believe in them. i would like to thank the commission for the information it has received, particularly on the maintenance of the budget and hence the aid. the rural world is watching this reform of the cap closely, as you know, so i take this opportunity to highlight a very worrying point: do farmers even know that in recent years, through the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd), hundreds of thousands of euros have been financed for programmes to help migrants settle in rural areas? our group has tabled an amendment to ensure that the future cap can no longer deprive our farmers of their primary rights. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that you will take responsibility for this crucial amendment.
mr president, commissioner, we need an ambitious cap. we've been saying that for months. i thank the rapporteur, mr herbert dorfmann, and the fictitious rapporteurs for the quality of their work. the report covers a wide range of issues, from safeguarding farmers' incomes, to the position of agriculture in free trade agreements, to reorienting agriculture to take account of the environmental and climate aspects of biodiversity. it's all there. i only hope that you will have time to read the contents of this report before friday, since it seems that it is friday that you will be proposing your legislative text to us, although i regret that you are proposing it first to the press, then to the council and finally to the european parliament. but that's your idea of democracy. i would like to say that we must study the content of this report very carefully, within a budgetary framework not of less than 5%, as you have repeatedly told us, but of less than 25% for the second pillar and at least 14% for direct payments to farmers. because we have to think in constant terms and be very precise about this particular issue.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, first of all i would like to thank nicola caputo for this very good report. the european agricultural population is not renewing itself. this is a fact which has been observed and is not new, unfortunately. for more than 50 years, agricultural development, supported by the cap, has encouraged the concentration and expansion of farms and has led to a high level of capitalisation which has made some farms difficult to transfer. the issue of generational renewal - as we see today - is a crucial problem for our food security and also for the maintenance of living territories. in the face of this major challenge, we must put in place a proactive policy, combining european instruments with national arrangements, to guarantee better access to land, finance and training. the entry of young people into agriculture is an element of dynamism and innovation which is essential if we are to foster a change in our agricultural models. you have to say it with force, like nicola caputo does. the renewal of generations is not only desirable, not only possible, but essential, commissioner. thank you for taking this into account in your legislative proposal.
mr president, on tuesday 29 may there will be a european demonstration of road haulage workers outside parliament, asking us about their situation, while on 4 june the committee on transport and tourism will begin voting on the mobility package. what do the employees want? in a sector ravaged by competition and extremely precarious, with extreme working conditions, truck drivers are demanding a dignity that is now denied them, the recognition of their rights and occupational safety. in the face of this emergency, you are responding to them by extending working time, by setting limits on rest time which too often leads them to not leave their cabins, by introducing a lex specialis for posted workers on the road, which will deprive them of the advances of the general directive on posting. the result is more precariousness and social dumping. to paraphrase the poet aragon, "is this how men live" or "should they live?" i will take responsibility for my vote, as i will in the street, and i call for solidarity with the road workers.
mr president, commissioner, i would like to commend you for your commitment and your energy, and assure you that we will do everything we can to support you and give europe a budget that will enable it to meet the challenges of globalisation. but we're committed to 2027. do we think that with a budget of 1.08 or 1.30 per cent of gdp we will be able to achieve our objectives? we are facing major challenges today, brought about by globalisation. how can migration be stopped? we have challenges in the field of security, defence, climate protection, prevention of cyberattacks, the digital economy. how is it that there is no european giant in the digital sector? the space policy could also be mentioned. in these circumstances we will not be able to continue to ask the member states for more money. is it not time, commissioner, to recognize that in some areas expenditure at national level is no longer as effective as it should be and will only be effective again if it is now committed at european level? can we foresee that if we raise the budget tomorrow to 2 or 3% of the european gross domestic product, it will not be an increase in european public expenditure, because we will stop committing certain expenditure at national level and commit it jointly at european level? we will not therefore increase european public spending, we will have greater efficiency and you will have the argument to demonstrate the european added value. yes, commissioner, we need a europe that prepares our future, a europe that protects us, a budget that is consistent with our ambitions and our vision. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". mr rübig, the euro zone cannot be limited to a single monetary policy with an addition of national policies. we need more coherence and more resources to support the competitiveness of enterprises, especially smes. i would also like europe to have an ambition for vocational training for young people. we have a problem of youth unemployment in europe: on average, one in four young people is unemployed, but in some countries it is almost one in two. so yes, i want a programme for vocational training and apprenticeship to be developed and erasmus to be tripled to allow apprentices to access longterm mobility too.
mr president, for europe, this budget is merely setting the course for austerity. it sacrifices the interests of france, since france will continue to pay the british rebate until 2025. i can't believe this! and it will continue to pay the rebate on the rebate granted to other countries, including germany. it's not fair! and this injustice can no longer be justified, especially since france is committed to an increase in the european budget. the bill for france is heavy. it is all the more so as cuts in subsidies are planned at the level of the cap and cohesion policy, which will hit french farmers and french regions hard. so you can make up this budget however you like, this budget is bad for europe, it is bad for france.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the council, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thank you to the council for having reminded us that the multiannual financial framework is not just a matter of money, but first and foremost the backbone of the union's future. the resolution we are about to vote on is a reaffirmation of parliament's demands for the means to meet our future challenges and thus to finance the future programme of the union. it also recalls our intention to negotiate the next multiannual financial framework now. finally, it recalls the mff's unbreakable link with own resources, because money does not grow on trees. i'll start with a warning: there's no time to lose. but i regret the deception which the commission has used in presenting its proposal: figures misrepresented in their best light, hidden cuts, elements of language, although sharp, but which have deceived no one. let us be serious and responsible, let us compare what is comparable and let us validate one method, one method only, with inflation and without the united kingdom. in the face of parliament's objections, the commission decided to publish calculation bases with the real figures. what are they? less 15% for the cap, less 10% for cohesion first investment policy , less 27% for the european agricultural fund for rural development, less 6% for the european social fund still listed as a priority , and up to less 45% for the cohesion fund. your actual proposal is therefore 1.08%, i.e. a share of the european budget in the union's gdp which, compared to the current situation, is less than 1.13% in the union of 27. and of course, the sacrificed solidarity policies. i would like to conclude by summing up the resolution of parliament: on the one hand, who does not see the new challenges facing the european union? the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european environment agency. commissioner, let us not lie to the europeans by telling them that europe will be able to provide solutions without increasing the european budget. europe is dying of hypocrisy and this is the bed of nationalism. parliament is clear: let us invest in the european ambition. as regards own resources, we recognize that the commission's proposal is a step in the right direction, despite its ultimate morbid timidity. we call on the council once again: it is time to start negotiations so that we can ... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, there is a virtue in the consistency of this budget, that of austerity: minus 15% for the cap, minus 10% for social cohesion and, at the same time, priority for frontex and defence. it is true that it is difficult to cover all the challenges with a fixed budget. therefore, in parallel, there is another long-term shortcoming: the abandonment of a proposed tax on financial transactions which, at minimum, would bring in €60 billion a year. the same is true for the introduction of a real carbon tax, even though the 'not very progressive' us president does not hesitate to protect his country's economy. there is an english proverb that says a small bird is content with a small nest. well, mr president, ours is small, very small.
mr president, president jacques chirac said this about the environmental emergency: 'our house is on fire and we are looking elsewhere!' this applies to our budget, since the commission is offering us buckets of water to put out a fire, whereas we would need a fire lance. there are certainly increases and a considerable effort on policies to support innovation, the digital, community policies such as erasmus, border protection and defence, and that is all well and good. these are the major expectations of our citizens to which europe must be able to respond. but brexit was the opportunity to trigger a real 'big budget bang', and the mountain gave birth to a mouse. parliament called for an increase of up to 1.3% of gross national income, but it is well known that after the member states have made a few more attempts, we will reach the present situation. so, when we talk about the added value of the european union, i want to talk about health policy. it's always the adjustment variable in our budget. so when we see that this health programme is again drowned among other issues, such as the integration of migrants, this is unacceptable. (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, commissioner, i have always regretted that the european union is playing a small part in budgetary and fiscal matters. the fact that these questions generally require unanimity in the council is probably one of the major flaws of our european organisation, because in a good democracy it should be parliament which decides on these questions, since it is the representative of the people. the consequence of the european parliament's predominance would naturally be the institution of own resources independent of the goodwill of the states. these own resources are possible. a european taxation that would tackle financial transactions, carbon adjustment at borders, gafa and, of course, tax fraud would not touch the wallet of european citizens and would not allow them to gamble on 1%, 1.3%, a percentage x. maybe i'm dreaming or something. if we could only take the initiative to make the pockets of the stowaways of the digital economy, we would take a big step towards a europe of trust for citizens.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i have taken note of your comments, your expectations and your suggestions, together with my staff. we shall be evaluating them over the next few days and they will certainly provide a complementary basis for the composition of the commission and the work of the commission. very few members have praised our proposal. thank you very much. there was criticism from many people from all directions. and when i analyse this criticism, i come to the conclusion that in the midst of the criticism is the commission's proposal, in the midst of your critical statements, disappointments, expectations or statements that it is unfair, is the commission's proposal. if i were to imagine that in addition to the president of the council, 26 other ministers of finance or of europe were sitting here and speaking, i would say that the picture would be even more colourful. the criticism would be even more diverse, and again the commission proposal would be at the centre of all critical expectations. i would like to turn briefly to the issue of the rule of law. ladies and gentlemen, in all programmes, in all investments and in all support measures, we as the commission are obliged to take account of the interests of our citizens and taxpayers and to combat fraud, dishonesty and corruption in the budget - through olaf, through the eppo, through our own controls, through close cooperation with the committee on budgetary control and the european court of auditors. and if there is a dispute and you have to recover funds because of incorrect calculations or fraud or because a project was misrepresented, then you have to rely on the independence of the courts, on an independent third party. and if that is not guaranteed in the member states or regions where appropriate, if the independence of the judiciary from the legislature or the government is not guaranteed, then we would have a lack of confidence in fair decisions. the rule of law is therefore inextricably linked to a european budget and the objective of avoiding corruption, fraud and misuse of european taxpayers' money. that is why we are campaigning for the proposal for conditionality in the rule of law. secondly, your speeches have in part revealed what is much more emphasized in the council: i want my money back - the issue of the so-called net payers. this may have been a comprehensible policy instrument at a time when the agricultural and cohesion sectors accounted for over 80% of all expenditure and the return of funds to farmers, rural areas, structural programmes, regions and local authorities could be traced relatively clearly. but with our proposal, cohesion and agriculture will only account for almost 60% of the budgetary framework. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels. but when i am guarding the borders of bulgaria, greece, italy, spain, malta, cyprus, no money is going back to paris or berlin. but external border control is in the common european interest. if i increase development aid for africa, if i finance people in need in turkey, no penny will be returned, but i believe we have fulfilled our christian obligations, brought human dignity and perhaps also reduced the number of people who want to come to us through smugglers or on their own out of necessity. that is why this so-called net contributor's account is increasingly a fake. i therefore reject it categorically. or if a research project is going on for philips, siemens or bosch, and they have their research centre in budapest, and not in amsterdam or munich or stuttgart, does that money then flow back to hungary, to germany, to the netherlands? it is no longer possible to say for these global players whether research money is going back to the member state in which the company has its registered office. it often goes to other locations within the european union. third: we have focused on only proposing programmes, only funding projects, only spending money when there is added value. one example is defense. we don't want more military, we want to use taxpayers' money more efficiently for our external security. we can show that some tenders for a weapon, for a tank, for a drone, to maintain our external security, are better held in europe than 27 times in individual silos. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. so the proposal is: give us one euro from your budget, we will put the 27 amounts together, write them down together, have economies of scale, save in the interest of the taxpayer. it is not about more military, it is about more efficient investment in defence at european level. the question of ambition raised by mr arthuis, not 1.3%, 1.114%, but 2% or 3%, was also supported by mrs grossetête, mr rübig and mrs trüpel. i'm not opposed to it. let me be very specific, mr arthuis: in the 2018 budget consultations, france was the strongest proponent of cuts, it was france that fought for every euro and every million in cuts. so my request is: let us not only talk about an ambitious budget in strasbourg, let us fight for the corresponding revenue in paris and berlin within the limits of our limited possibilities. this is also true of mr rübig and the övp-led government in austria. what i don't like is that you're acting strong here and at home you either don't feel your authority or you don't have any authority at all. i'm addressing the german government. a new beginning for europe, co-authored by martin schulz. i welcome that. but my friend olaf scholz says publicly: "germany does not give more than 1.0 of gni". that is a glaring contradiction. and to deal with this in berlin, as a social democrat, as an spd member of parliament, as an s&d member, i think it is imperative. we are not going to be able to do that, because we are not going to be able to do it. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i shall end with four: it is about economic strength and competitiveness. if you are economically strong, the second thing is solidarity. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. economic strength and competitiveness, solidarity, sustainability and security are four guidelines which i believe this draft fully reflects. that is why i am very interested in a critical but intensive consultation with all of you in the coming weeks.
mr. arthuis, we'll let mrs. panayotova conclude. there is no blue card on the commissioners' speeches.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for your remarks and comments. i have taken good note of them. i have received three questions from my former respected colleague, mr geier, and i will try to be very brief. he had three questions concerning the communication with parliament and the council concerning the system of own resources and also the timeline regarding the forthcoming negotiations. as i already said during my intervention, i can assure you that the bulgarian presidency, as well as the future presidencies, are committed to regular and frank talks with parliament. the bulgarian, austrian and romanian presidencies have a clear mandate to meet and brief the representatives of parliament before and after each session of the general affairs council (gac) when the multiannual financial framework (mff) is discussed, in line with the treaty provisions. we have already had such meetings on 14 may, before the start of the general affairs council (gac) meeting at high political level, and afterwards with a follow-up meeting at ambassador level on 22 may. furthermore, when the multiannual financial framework is on the agenda of the european council, the president of the european parliament also will be given the opportunity to contribute to the discussion by addressing the heads of state or government at the beginning of their meeting, as is actually the case generally. after each meeting of the european council, its president will present a report also for your kind attention. concerning the question about the system of own resources, i have to say that the discussions in the council’s working party are beginning today, so you will understand that the work at technical level is just beginning. it would therefore be premature from the side of the presidency to express itself on this issue. concerning the timeline, i have to underline that the leaders discussed the calendar of negotiations at their informal meeting in february. they decided that we would advance as fast as possible with this file, but it was also clear from the discussion that the possibility of an early agreement was very much dependent on the proposals put forward. they will return to the issue of timing once again, at the earliest in june. in this context, the presidency has started work immediately on the commission proposal so as to advance work as much as possible, and the next presidencies are committed to working intensively as well. i think that i have succeeded in responding to the three questions and, in conclusion, i have to say that in the weeks and months to come we will have a lot to talk about. it won’t be easy, it won’t be simple but i trust that we share the same objective – that of a good agreement that delivers the best result for our citizens. the council looks forward to working with you in the spirit of mutual, sincere cooperation for a timely adoption of the next multiannual financial framework.
mr arthuis, i give you 30 seconds, but please do not repeat the debate.
madam president, thank you very much. commissioner, let us not misunderstand each other. i am aware that there may be a gap between words and deeds. i'm trying to level the playing field. forgive me, but at 1.08% we are still in a miserable budget and the fine speeches of our heads of state and government do not hold up with such a budget. i am not suggesting that you increase public spending, i am simply saying that some expenditure at national level is no longer as effective as it should be and that, therefore, it is urgent to transfer appropriations from the national budget to the european budget in order to achieve full efficiency and demonstrate what european added value can be. if you don't have to... (the president cut off the speaker's microphone)
i cut your wire, sir. i said we're not going to debate this again. you've been on the record, so i'll stop there. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 30 may 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by élisabeth morin-chartier and agnes jongerius, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 96/71/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 16 december 1996 concerning the posting of workers in the framework of the provision of services (com (2016) 0128 - c8-0114/2016 - 2016/0070 (cod)) (a8-0319/2017). i'm gonna have to take a little lip-service to this debate. at noon we have the speech of the president of the republic of guinea, mr alpha condé, followed by the votes at 12.30. i am therefore obliged to concentrate on the debate, without accepting any blue cards and with a very short series of speeches on request, so that we can respect our timetable.
i'm the reporter. madam president, madam commissioner, madam representative of the council, i must tell you frankly that i have been dreaming of this very keenly and intensely. to have completed this very difficult task was a dream for me for a long time, for 27 months. it was an impossible mission, and together, we made it possible. that is what i hope we will achieve today. we wanted to put in place a very clear policy line: equal work, equal pay, same workplace. it is this equality between european citizens, this european justice, that we have sought to achieve. it is the result of unprecedented collaboration between the commission, the council and parliament. i would like to greet my fellow reporter, my friend, agnes jongerius. we worked together, hand in hand, and sometimes even toothlessly to get there. we wanted this deal! however, this determination was accompanied by a method of listening, dialogue and respect for each other's positions, because i know how many different positions there are in the workings of this house. there are the positions of the political groups, there are the different positions of the member states, but between us here, and this is the role of the european parliament, we must be able to reach a consensus, find a way of understanding, and we have respected all the fictitious rapporteurs in order to do so. we were starting from a long way off, from a fracture, literally. it's an east-west rift. is this what we wanted? we started from a split of eleven member states who refused to reopen the revision of this directive. were we just going to sit back and do nothing? no, we had to give a new dimension to the free movement of services, to put an end to all the speeches which, more or less, want us to withdraw into a national space. this required a balance to be struck. we have done this here in the european parliament, by proposing to the council and, again in your presence, madam commissioner, in the presence of mrs rousinova, who has always been extremely committed, and in the presence of the estonian presidency that preceded you, this profound commitment, because we wanted to get the european citizens out of a politically unhealthy, economically unhealthy and socially unhealthy situation. social dumping is not our objective, unfair competition between companies is not our objective. our aim is to strengthen a social europe, a healthy, strong economic europe with fundamental values. that is what we have agreed in this agreement. that is the agreement you will have to support in the future. anyway, i wanted to say thank you to all the stakeholders and i'm not forgetting any of our team members, dear agnes. we all know their names: françois, yann, lara, alena... i thank them.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members of parliament, the importance of this agreement cannot be underestimated. the revision of the posting of workers directive goes to the heart of the internal market. the european project has been built around the internal market, which is the european union’s major achievement. but the internal market is not only about goods and services but also about europe’s work force. in order for the european project to be successful, the internal market has to be fair and also perceived as fair by our citizens. fairness means equal rules for workers when moving across borders and fair competition between companies. following the commitments made by president juncker to this house, we came in march 2016 with a proposal implementing the principle of equal pay for equal work at the same place. i would like today to pay tribute to the two co-rapporteurs, elisabeth morin-chartier and agnes jongerius. with their clear understanding of the challenges, their determination and their spirit of compromise, they made it possible to reach an agreement with the council on our proposal. also, thanks to the shadows and to the employment committee, its chair and staff. the text you adopt today is a substantive improvement of the rules set out in the 1996 directive, both for posted workers and for companies. posted workers will be guaranteed equal pay for equal work carried out at the same place. companies will benefit from a level playing field that will stop a race to the bottom on working conditions. the revised directive will tackle fraud and abuses. i will be very clear: this directive is indeed protecting workers’ rights, but it does so without introducing any discrimination of cross-border service providers. the directive ensures that undertakings provide services in another member state under the same conditions as imposed by that state on its own nationals. to dissipate all doubts, i tell you that this directive is not protectionist; its aim is to preserve fairness on the internal market, in order to preserve our citizens’ confidence in the internal market. that is why the importance of this directive should not be underestimated. we need it to prevent member states from having recourse to protectionist measures that would undermine our internal market and, finally, our welfare. this is the reason why in the council this text has gained support from a large majority of member states across europe, from east to west and from north to south. for the same reason, i count on this house to vote in favour of this directive with a large majority and to demonstrate to european citizens that the union’s legislative institutions can overcome political differences to effectively make decisions that matter to them.
the commission is therefore proposing to amend the proposal to the effect that the commission should be able to take part in the negotiations. madam president, this agreement, which was negotiated over a period of 27 months, is a very good agreement and marks a fundamental first step in the elimination of inequalities on the one hand and the fight against intra-community relocations on the other. i would therefore like to thank the two rapporteurs in particular and to welcome the work done by the commission and the council. i would like to say a second thing: this agreement is not only social, it is also a way of defusing at least the protests of the extremists who have used this argument to try to stop the construction of europe. finally, there are amendments. i call on my colleagues to vote against these amendments so that this first step, which is extremely important, is not forced and we can start implementing something which is really interesting and useful for the union. thank you for this job.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, what about the revision of the directive on posted workers to reduce the east-west social dumping which you have instituted, both right-wing and left-wing parties, within your own european union? 516 000 workers posted to france in 2017, that's 516 000 fewer jobs for the french. there are some good initiatives which we support: equal pay and equal dismissal or, again, time-limitation. but unfortunately you are complicit in this unfair competition: there is no specific provision on the hourly rate. there is no provision for subcontracting and temporary workers who recruit worldwide, such as those ecuadorians hired in spain to work in france. similarly, there is no provision on the liability of the contracting companies in the event of fraud. there are many such frauds, not to mention the problems of the cascade detachment. finally, this little reform could be described as a lie, because differences in social charges are still not taken into account, as is the case in the transport sector. the workers posted from eastern europe will always be cheaper than our own workers. we had proposed the following: equal pay and social security for all, from the first day, which seems to us to be simpler and more equitable. for all these reasons, we shall abstain.
madam president, the concrete progress is there: full application of collective agreements, payment of a thirteenth month when it exists, payment of bonuses, wage increases in the case of overtime. even better - and this was very important - the costs of transport, accommodation and food will be borne by the company and will not be deducted from the workers' wages. we owe this to agnes jongerius and elisabeth morin-chartier, whom i congratulate on the progress made. but will this be enough to put an end to social dumping? no one says so, and it is clear today that there are great risks for the transport sector, which the states have decided to put aside in the debate on social dumping. the regulations are also lacking, as we know, particularly as regards subcontracting. so what can be done at european level to defend workers, their rights and harmonize social rights? we must take responsibility, support these advances and vote for what is being put forward today, and continue to fight to ensure that we can do even better for european workers in the future.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, social europe is on its way. the postal workers directive now protects these workers, who were most often vulnerable workers, far from home, subject to sometimes undignified living and wage conditions. it's finished. from now on, the pay will be the same for a posted worker and a local worker at the same workplace, and accommodation will be taken into account. the directive will also combat the risks of social dumping by means of better tools to combat fraud and abuse. nevertheless, this new legislation is a blow to the transport sector. i would remind you that road hauliers have been excluded from this directive and their fate is now subject to other specific legislation. we are taking a huge risk: that of treating truck drivers as underpaid workers, with fewer rights, less income and therefore less protection. that is why, as chair of the committee on transport and tourism in the european parliament, i believe that we must correct this unacceptable mistake by restoring good working conditions for road haulage workers.
i'm the reporter. madam president, as you said just now, commissioner, the citizens are waiting for us. it is the vote of each of us that will be read by each of our fellow citizens. i know there are a lot of rumours going around, i know there has been pressure, but to vote is to be clear in your heart and soul about your political objectives. that's what i'm asking of each and every one of you here. our political objective is europe, it is to bring europe closer to our citizens, it is to kill the worm in the fruit, with the exploitation of this detached work by the populists against europe, this is what will be at the heart of the campaign for the european elections in 2019, this is what i ask you to keep in mind this morning when you go to vote. we have no right to make mistakes. parliament can show that it is great, that it helps to move europe forward. that's what's on our table this morning.
ladies and gentlemen, let me just say that i regret that two such important debates, with so many requests for speeches, have been brought together in such a short morning. i regret that because we could have taken many other interventions. the debate is closed. the vote will take place this tuesday at 12.30 p.m. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, my reference to the rules of procedure is based on rule 212 of the rules of procedure, which deals with the composition of parliamentary delegations, and also on the bureau's resolution of 25 october 2015, which lays down the rules. it provides that when a delegation goes abroad to meet our counterparts in foreign parliaments, special consideration must be given to participation in the delegation meetings. in may the delegation responsible for relations with japan was composed of ten members. of these ten members, three have not attended any of the eighteen meetings held since the beginning of the mandate, one has attended one of the eighteen meetings, and four have attended less than one of the two meetings. i have no intention of stigmatising these colleagues, but i am saying that majority rule cannot cover the parliamentary tourism that prevails in this house.
mr president, we are contesting the reports of the trilogue and we ask for a vote on all the amendments, please.
mr president, we were promised that this new reform of the directive on posted workers would settle everything. you're full of shit! this directive will continue to organise the competition of workers in europe, social security contributions will continue to be paid in the country of origin, the question of subcontractors is not settled, a posting may last up to 18 months when the average in france is four months, housing and meal allowances will now depend on the rules of the country of origin, and letterbox companies still have good days ahead of them. today, 29 may, the anniversary of the 'no' vote on the constitutional treaty, if the people's vote had been respected at the time, we would not be here and social harmonization from above could have prevailed over social dumping.
mr president, this new directive fails to seize the historic opportunity of the fight against anti-dumping and anti-fraud. in fact, it sets the limit for secondment at 18 months, whereas the current average in france is 47 days. road transport and transport in general, the sectors most exposed to secondment, are excluded from this directive and even more vulnerable. this directive omits the protection of workers and confines itself to the freedom to provide services. she's omitting the subcontracting chain again. finally, until now travel and subsistence allowances and other expenses were calculated on the basis of the legislation of the host country. it will now be about the country of origin, which means a race at least social for both. i voted against this directive and regret it, unfortunately.
madam president, commissioner, the terrible events in gaza and the provocation in jerusalem are nothing but the tragic, emerging part of an iceberg. in reality, contrary to what mr benyamin netanyahu would have us believe, the israeli government is not a friend of the european union, democracy and peace. he knows only repression and humiliation. it's a government that wants force and it's a fighting government. mr steinitz, a member of the likud party, the majority party in the government, said in haaretz on 23 may, about mrs mogherini and the european union, that the european union could go to hell. that's not how you talk to your friends. the words are there, the debate is on. the european union must be strong and proud of its values, and it must continue to work for peace, as it has always done. finally, the european union must punish those who, at this stage, are impunely flouting international law and the values of peace and human dignity that we defend.
madam president, the same words that are repeated here must stop masking the impunity enjoyed by the israeli government, which, i remind you, is occupied by another people. he has just killed like dogs 117 palestinian women, men and children and wounded 13,000. they are crimes, and they are the responsibility of international courts. that is why, commissioner, it is now time to produce clear instruments based on international law. we can suspend our partnership agreements with israel as long as it does not respect international law. we can recognize the state of palestine with east jerusalem as its capital. finally, it is time to start diplomatic work to get international protection for the palestinian people and to help to significantly strengthen the health system in gaza, because they need it, it is an emergency.
on behalf of the enf group. mr. speaker, since the election of donald trump, he has been blowing a wind of primary anti-americanism into this house. i am reserved and even critical of the us president's geopolitical choices, but i think his domestic policy is relevant and in line with his electoral commitments, particularly as regards the fight against unfair competition. we are a long way from the half-measures of the european union, which will be approved tomorrow without a vote. if trump's protectionism is driving you crazy, we can look at other examples. fifteen years ago, côte d'ivoire imported most of its poultry, but in 2005, the country imposed customs barriers that allowed it to develop its own sector, with a tax of 1.50 euros on each kilogram of imported chicken. ivory coast chicken has become competitive again and even much cheaper. and the result is that we've created over 50,000 jobs, from livestock to slaughter, but also easier sanitation controls and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, because we're in local production. ladies and gentlemen, from the united states to côte d'ivoire and many other countries, the future is in short circuits in agriculture and industry. only intelligent protectionism can reconcile our economic imperatives... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the late president mitterrand told a journalist at the end of his life that we were at war with the united states of america, in an economic war, but a war to the death. i am much more concerned about the unbearable claim to universality of the us sanctions against iran than i am about the protectionist measures in relation to steel or aluminium. the council and the commission have not reacted sufficiently to the first point. total has already abandoned its plan to exploit the large south pars gas field. the banks remember the 7 billion euros that were stolen, extorted, from bnp paribas. airbus will have to give up an order for 100 planes. air france is suspending flights between paris and tehran. bouygues and paris airport have renounced the management of iranian airports. we must have a much firmer policy and we must be prepared to put in escrow an amount of american property and funds equivalent to what we would be robbed of. this would mean a lot more than our debates.
mr president, mrs malmström, you know the figures, i hope. the european union has a surplus of 120 billion compared to the united states and a deficit of 170 billion compared to china, and overall we have a surplus of 30 billion. unless you believe that the economy should be predatory, impoverishing some or enriching others, you should ask yourself every morning when you wake up: what do i do to not impoverish the united states and what do i do to not enrich china? how can i put in place a policy to reduce my surpluses with the united states and how can i put in place a policy to reduce my deficits with china? this policy, you will not do it, because, fundamentally, the current policy serves finance and serves debt.
in writing. it is regrettable that us tariffs are affecting european steel and aluminium exports, but this sovereign decision is largely a response to unfair chinese competition in the steel sector. the commission also found that the chinese exporting producers had significant spare capacity in the prc. in a communication of 11 june 2013, it denounced the 'predatory commercial behaviour' of that state which, with its overproduction of 400 million tonnes per year (2017), contributed to the loss of 80 000 european jobs in seven years. the decision to withdraw from the iran nuclear deal will have far-reaching implications. total, for example, would be ousted from a major gas contract, again in favour of china. the european union is also very concerned about the situation in the baltic sea, and the situation in the baltic sea is very serious. on these points, the commission does not provide any effective response, and worse, as regards russia, it persists in its error, thereby revealing the quasi-vassalage relationship it has with the united states.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the criminal intervention in libya, launched at the initiative of nicolas sarkozy, had a triple consequence: the fall of the gaddafi regime, guarantor of libyan unity, the emergence of groups close to daesh, al-qaida or the muslim brotherhood, and the migrant invasion of europe, accompanied by deaths in the mediterranean. what a sad record for an action carried out in the name of human rights! western chancelleries have kept this chaos going by playing the national unity government card, supported by mafia militias, against marshal haftar, yet recognized by the elected parliament of tobruk. the european authorities should step up the fight against illegal immigration, regardless of the mood of the un and pro-migrant activists, with a clear objective: zero immigration. they should cooperate with the libyan coastguard, severely punish the ngos that are complicit with the smugglers and finally lift the arms embargo in order to give the libyan national army the means to secure the country, a prerequisite for holding elections.
madam president, i largely agree with the analysis in the panzeri report. only an inclusive approach involving all actors, including local actors, can lead to a solution in libya. it would be good if european governments, certain european governments, would stop their untimely initiatives which could undermine the work of the un. but support for the government of national accord alone cannot lead to a solution. how much of the territory does he control? who does he represent, and who do the four main actors in the libyan conflict represent, meeting in paris? any measure that is not taken by the few coastguards of this government, which are only those in tripoli, is doomed to failure and may lead to further violations of human rights. he was seen on november 6, 2017, during a rescue operation conducted by sea watch. twenty people are reported to have died as a result of their intervention and the survivors, on their return to libya, were reportedly detained, tortured and sold. the case was referred to the european court of human rights. we must therefore freeze european funding in this area until a serious assessment has been carried out, freeze the sar project and refuse any return to libya, including, madam high representative, from niger, as has just been done for 145 darfurians. i have tabled amendments to that effect and i thank my colleagues for their support.
madam president, madam high representative, ladies and gentlemen, mr panzeri's report comes at the right time, at the very moment when the french president is bringing together today the two strong men of the country, fayez al-sarraj and marshal khalifa haftar, the main political forces of the country and, of course, the united nations. this initiative is welcome, because it is time to find a way out of the crisis in libya to end the chaos that has been reigning since 2011 and europe must be the driver. a roadmap committing the parties in libya to the organisation of free and credible general elections should be signed. there are encouraging signs, notably regarding the process of registration on the electoral rolls, despite the recent attacks. the timing of the elections should not be restricted to the end of the year, as the priority is to ensure that they are held in good security, that they are transparent and that everyone accepts the result. the turnout must be high, an electoral commission must set the rules, and above all a constitution must be adopted by referendum, so that it can be in place at least for the presidential elections. we must act quickly and we must act well, because the libyan population is getting poorer and all of libya is being plagued by a proliferation of militias or groups working for international crime.
the european union is a party to the schengen agreement, which is a treaty which is not a treaty of the european union. this phrase, which shows pride in progress, also sounds like a commonplace to which we have almost become accustomed. but we must be brave and firm to believe that this is still true and that this is still the strength of the european union in the world. but it all started so well when, in 1995, european citizens from 22 member states, iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland were able to move freely from one country to another, which greatly improved social, cultural and economic exchanges. to ensure this, our predecessors established a common rule, which was ultimately quite simple in its formulation: harmonized controls at the external borders in return for freedom of movement within the space thus created. i'm talking about now, but a lot has changed in the last few years. it is because we do not resign ourselves to this slow deterioration that the european parliament affirms in this first annual report its commitment to the schengen area and free movement. it highlights shortcomings in the implementation of schengen policies and makes recommendations. the most important of these is shared by the vast majority of parliament. while several member states have reintroduced checks at their national borders, sometimes for more than two years, and although such checks are authorised by the rules of the schengen borders code, they are contrary to the spirit of free movement. they must therefore be limited in time and justified, for example, by security risks. however, while legislation to strengthen security at our external borders is piling up - frontex reform, systematic checks on europeans and third-country nationals, new databases - the schengen counterpart no longer exists and several member states continue to carry out these checks at their national borders, sometimes in contravention of the rules. we denounce this non-compliance with the common rules. as the fictitious rapporteur for the socialists and democrats on this text, i also wanted to insist that other recommendations should be included, because the schengen area interacts with other common policies, in particular the management of migration flows. i shall mention only two examples. the reception of persons attempting to enter the schengen area. too many migrants have lost their lives in the mediterranean. there is a need to increase search and rescue operations at sea with frontex, which is required to participate fully in these operations, and member states can agree on a strong european asylum system, legal pathways to the union and a solidarity and shared reception of asylum seekers between member states. at a time when asylum negotiations are stalled in the council, we want a bold and progressive policy to help strengthen reception management at the external borders and the stability of the schengen area.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the schengen area is, or was, one of the main achievements of european integration for european citizens. it was the symbol of free movement. but it has become a symbol of the failure of european governments to show solidarity. the more tools are put in place to combat organised crime, trafficking in all its forms, money laundering and the fight against terrorism, the more some states are blaming schengen to cover up their shortcomings and their unwillingness to share information concerning their legal powers. the obsession is the fight against so-called illegal immigration. the number of files is increasing, 'border control' is being confused with 'police objectives', the principles of necessity and proportionality are being forgotten, and the balance between security and fundamental rights is being broken. france is at the forefront of these major failures and, worse, it has dared to use the fight against terrorism to set up easy checks at the franco-italian border. it is a departure from the schengen rules. i would like to end by thanking mr coelho for his work, for his willingness to take an inclusive approach to this report. i share his concern about what is happening in the united kingdom and i support his amendment on this point, as i support the full membership of bulgaria and romania in the schengen area.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to start by expressing my condolences to the families of the victims of today’s attack in the city of liège in belgium, as well as to the injured officers. we stand by them, the city, and the belgian police that lost two policewomen on duty. the commission welcomes this discussion on the correct implementation of the victims’ rights directive. i would therefore like to thank you for putting this point on the agenda of the plenary today. the victims’ rights directive is the core eu instrument for our policy on victims’ rights across the board, ranging from women who are victims of violence, to victims of terrorism, to victims of hate crime, and children suffering sexual abuse. we all have a duty to do more to protect their rights. where specific eu rules are in place in these policy areas, the victims’ rights directive applies in tandem and complements them. where no specific eu rules apply, it is this directive that fills the gap. it is this directive that ensures that all victims of crime in europe, regardless of nationality and their family members, must receive proper support, protection and access to justice. first and foremost, they must be treated with dignity and respect. this directive is also about how we strengthen victims’ procedural rights in criminal proceedings and about how we ensure that eu countries provide training on victims’ needs to officials that come into contact with them. it is therefore crucial that member states transpose and apply this instrument fully and correctly. as you know, we have already initiated infringement proceedings against those member states which have not notified the transposition of this important instrument, and next year we will publish a report assessing whether the member states have taken the necessary measures in order to comply with the victims’ rights directive. we are continuing to raise awareness of the victims’ rights directive through a constructive dialogue with our member states. cooperation among our member states is facilitated by our funding for the european network of victims’ rights. this is an area in which we will, of course, continue to work with parliament, and i look forward to listening to your views.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i too would like to express my full support, solidarity and heartfelt condolences to the families of the victims of this new attack today in liège, which of course affects all belgians, but which affects us all as europeans. while there are many battles to be fought, the fight for victims' rights must be at the heart of the criminal justice and cooperation system in europe. i would like to congratulate and thank teresa jiménez-becerril barrio and angelika mlinar for the extraordinary work they have done and for the short time i have been given to help the most vulnerable victims, children. in the intergroup on the rights of the child, we are fighting for the maximum protection of children in all european texts, because reports show it every day. violence against children is omnipresent in our democratic society, often on the internet, very often at school and extremely often also in their family and living environment. that is why we must fight in all the member states so that children have access to specific measures, to specific follow-up, to a genuine system of aid and, as my colleagues have said, to individual assessment and to comprehensible information, in short, to a genuine system of child support: social and psychological support, trained people and actors, for example for children who are witnesses of domestic violence. it is also important to pay particular attention to the risk of double victimisation in the directive, as our colleague caterina chinnici has proposed and has had adopted in the report on procedural guarantees. children are our future. let us protect them in the light of our european values.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would also like to express my full support to the families of the victims of the new attack in liège today. on reading the title of your report, european citizens might legitimately, or perhaps naively, expect you to make sensible recommendations, but if they read on they would soon be disappointed. you are calling, once again and as always, for the member states to ratify the istanbul convention, which openly promotes gender ideology, and for all staff dealing with victims to be trained in this ideology. you propose to criminalise the glorification of terrorist acts but, as you say, only if there is humiliation of the victims. finally, you mention the appalling situation of migrants in europe, who are more likely to be victims of crime than the rest of the population. i'll leave it to the citizens to judge your words. finally, with this text you are serving those whom you claim to defend, namely the victims. criminals do not differentiate between sexual orientation, colour of skin, immigrant or refugee status. they attack innocent people first and foremost, and it is them we must think of, it is them we must defend.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank my colleague christofer fjellner for his work on this extremely important subject. international competition has changed considerably over the last 20 years without our adapting our trade defence instruments. it was therefore more than urgent to strengthen our companies' arsenal to defend fair and honest competition. the modernisation we have achieved is a step forward and will help to create stronger, faster and more accessible trade defence tools, especially for our smes to use. i would also like to welcome the inclusion of environmental and social criteria in the use of the new instruments. i regret, however, that despite our request the rule of the lesser of two evils is generally upheld. only certain exceptions will allow higher duties to be imposed in the event of dumping. we now expect the reform to enter into force rapidly and will be attentive to its implementation. this agreement is timely. it will accompany the new anti-dumping method we adopted a few months ago.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of aggressive trade policies, especially from china, which we have just mentioned, in a world where ultra-liberalism and globalisation take precedence over any form of reasoned protectionism, the need for an anti-dumping procedure was obviously indispensable on the part of europe. on this point, i think the united states has clearly shown us that trade defence must be determined, without fear of offending its competitors. this is not the message conveyed by these measures. failure to be firm with potential offenders will not act as a deterrent. no country would be so kind to us if the situation were reversed. finally, as you said, this text is backed up by wto rules which no one outside brussels seems to want to respect, whether it be the united states, china or india. to assert itself on the international scene, to pursue a genuine policy in favour of the sovereignty of national economies, in the face of the growing commercial aggressiveness of certain countries, the best defence remains the path which mrs malmström calls the easy one, that is the courageous path of protectionism.
mr president, this is not a debate on 'protectionism versus free trade' but a discussion on the fairness or unfairness of international competition and how we europeans get respect in trade, because that is what it is all about: getting respect in trade. until now, particularly with the 1995 legislation and the timid and timid rule of lesser law, this has not been the case, to the extent that we have suggested that we were prepared to make reasonable accommodations with partners who, in turn, did not hesitate to resort to very harsh sanctions in the face of abusive practices. the current text improves the rule of the lesser right, because it is either dropped or the method of calculation or its base is revised. it also improves the situation by incorporating international social and environmental commitments into our legislation. finally, as the rapporteur has said, the text improves the conditions in place, in particular the time limits within which the commission can open an anti-dumping investigation. this text is therefore a modest progress, but it is still progress, and we take it as such.
mr president, the european union, which was presented as a shield to defend our commercial interests, has proved powerless in this task. as this text, which offers only a minimalist solution to protect against unfair competition, shows, the only new thing is the possibility of applying customs duties to compensate for the damage suffered, and again, only on raw materials, and only if the distortion leads to a difference in production costs of more than 17%. that is to say, it is totally ineffective in correcting the damage of the savage globalisation you have imposed on us. how can you say that you want to fight social dumping if, at the same time, you open the doors of europe wide to massive imports through ceta or the free trade agreement with mercosur? to combat unfair competition, you must immediately stop negotiations with mercosur and above all you must give back to the nations the freedom to set their own customs duties and import quotas.
reporting for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, mrs lulling, member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report and for the excellent work he has done. international trade contributes to growth and job creation. in this sense, european trade policy is central, and we must work to improve it. this report provides a mid-term review of the implementation of the eu's trade strategy, which dates back to 2015. the international trade environment is constantly evolving. the asian continent continues to grow in power. donald trump's irresponsibility and even aggressiveness creates uncertainty, including with regard to his allies. online commerce is growing at a very fast rate and the british people voted for brexit without a clear vision of their future. these are all examples of the fundamental need for the union to be responsive and firm in its principles. we are advocating fair, balanced and rules-based trade. that is why negotiations must be conducted in a spirit of reciprocity and mutual benefit, european standards cannot be changed, the sensitivity of certain products, especially agricultural products, must be taken into account and public services must be excluded. in parallel with these negotiations, we support the multilateral system and are concerned about the failure of buenos aires and the us blockage of the renewal of the appellate body. beyond the principles of negotiation, the practical implementation of agreements and legislation must be an integral part of our trade strategy. european companies use trade preferences available in trade agreements only up to 70%, while companies in partner countries do so up to 90%. the causes of this imbalance must therefore be identified and addressed as soon as possible so that our companies can take full advantage of these agreements. smes, public procurement and geographical indications are priorities for our trade policy. the union must continue to negotiate specific provisions for our smes, which account for 90% of jobs in europe. as regards public procurement, the commission estimates that more than half of the world's markets are currently closed because of protectionist measures, whereas european public procurement is open. greater reciprocity must be demanded. at the same time, a real communication strategy is needed: we need to use digital tools more. i would also like to stress a more technical but no less important point: the current rules of origin are too complex. the union must modernise them to make them easier to use. in the area of trade and the promotion of european values, tools exist, such as gsp schemes and sustainable development chapters in agreements. we need to continue to work with business and civil society, in particular on responsible management of global value chains. finally, we ask for more transparency. it is this transparency that will help to develop a public debate that provides concrete answers to citizens, takes their concerns into account and does not simply feed their fears. in this context, we recall our request for the publication of the negotiating mandates.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i wonder what we are doing here when we talk about reports. the council has already made it clear that it intends to conclude trade agreements without the agreement or approval of national and regional parliaments. but it is a serious and important subject. does the commission have the ambition to govern without the people? human rights, you say? well, i remember mr juncker in 2015 saying: 'there is no democratic choice against trade agreements'. today, as italy has chosen a new policy, brussels, through the voice of its european commissioner for the budget, has declared: 'the markets will teach italians to vote fairly'. it is a direct threat to the italians, it is a direct threat to democracy. the commission is clearly choosing to run this europe against the people, for the benefit of the financial powers which are now running us. we have made another choice, that of defending and respecting the will of the peoples.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam commissioner, the speeches of all the speakers have shown the importance of the subject and the need to strengthen the monitoring of the common commercial policy and to ensure its proper implementation. as the world's leading trading power, the european union must continue to assert its position, defend its interests and enforce its trade commitments. as you said, commissioner, it is important that all economic actors, and in particular smes, have access to better information and know which trade preferences they can subscribe to. a better use of our trade regulations and agreements is now a priority. in the report we also call for the creation of a specific service within the commission to monitor trade policy, and we recall that the union delegations play a crucial role and are at the forefront of contacting our partners. finally, i would like to stress once again the importance and the need to develop a public debate on european trade policy, which includes all the actors, whether companies, citizens, civil society or public authorities. in this context, the creation of an advisory group on trade negotiations is good news and we will follow this initiative closely. i hope that the european parliament will be able to send a strong message on international trade when it votes tomorrow, and i thank all my colleagues once again.
mr president, mr prime minister, i understand that you share this ambition for the european union to become more established in the world. although europe has always been an actor in trade, recent signs suggest that it could become a spectator. this requires strong support from the member states, and i am talking about all the member states, whatever their interests, because it is in our common interest to make europe the driving force behind a controlled and fairer globalisation. on the question of the screening of foreign investment, for example, which we voted on the day before yesterday, here in the parliamentary committee, we are ready to discuss with the council with pragmatism and efficiency. i hope that the european parliament's seriousness on this technical, but above all political, subject will help to convince the remaining member states of the need to better understand what is happening in terms of investment on our continent. mr prime minister, take this opportunity to provide europe with a tool to fill a gap in its internal market, a tool that will simply protect our strategic sectors, our companies and, of course, our jobs.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the practice of the golden visas is scandalous. it consists, for some member states of the european union, in selling to wealthy foreigners, at very high prices, residence permits with a promise of nationality which gives them access to the schengen area. who are the buyers? often russians and chinese, anxious to obtain a second passport to protect themselves in case of danger or simply to practice tax evasion or even money laundering. which countries are selling? there are about ten of these within the union, including portugal, a tariff of eur 1 000 000, malta, a tariff of eur 1 200 000 and, the cream of the crop, cyprus, a tariff of eur 2 000 000. the commission in brussels was fully aware of this practice, but for a long time it remained silent, proof if need be that it serves the interests of businessmen. given the scale of the scandal, she's promised us a report on the golden visas by the end of the year. let's bet that once again, the mountain will give birth to a mouse.
mr president, more than a dozen member states have set up citizenship by investment schemes. in reality, these schemes allow criminals and fraudsters to launder their money, regain their virginity and import their trafficking into the schengen area. in portugal, the golden visas are at the heart of a huge corruption scandal. in malta, lithuania and cyprus, they allow russian oligarchs to escape sanctions. they can also allow french citizens to escape the tax radar. yes, states are sovereign in the allocation of nationality, but when the european area of freedom, justice and security is threatened, the european union must act. it is unacceptable to allow investors to move freely within the schengen area, whereas controls on the origin of their money are often inadequate. the schengen area requires trust and solidarity. the golden visas are compromising him. the commission must therefore, if not ban them, at least regulate them.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, commissioner, the situation is simple. they were exhibited by my colleagues. first, it's easy to tamper with a meter; second, it's theft; thirdly, theft not only robs consumers of their money, but also their safety and affects the market for both new and used goods. the solutions seem simple and inexpensive, at least from a technical point of view, since they have already been tried and tested, in particular - as has been said - in belgium, with the car-pass, and in the netherlands. nine billion is a considerable amount, not to mention the side effects i mentioned on safety in the new market and even in the car-care market. so we have a very big problem, which is absolutely clear, the solution of which seems simple, and to which, curiously enough, the member states, most of whom are not concerned, do not react. it is nevertheless extraordinary, because it is one of the only crimes which is not characterised by a number of member states' courts. so it may be somewhat surprising to see this position of the member states and, for once, the commission has the opportunity to bring a solution to all european citizens. the ways in which europe can shine are not so common among our citizens. i think there are simple solutions, commissioner. we could ask car manufacturers to do better, but we know that this will not be a definitive solution and that we will never be assured of the inviolability of the meters. i think, madam commissioner, that all garage doors, like the car-pass, do indeed allow for the meters to be raised and that there is no need for an additional administrative device, which is mandatory as an incentive. i would simply say that the commission should set up a new instrument and not seek to improve existing instruments, and that this instrument is of biblical simplicity. i propose, madam commissioner, that you draw up a regulation which is to be divided into two articles. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
the answer is 'blue card'. i do think that there are ways to greatly improve the security of electronic odometers since they are now electronic however, there is no absolute way that can guarantee that they are inviolable, since we know that it is a race for that matter in digital, it is permanent between the capabilities of attack and defense. on the other hand, as the commissioner has also mentioned, the fact that the vehicles are connected will allow a kind of real-time reporting to the manufacturers, to the maintenance services, which would allow real-time monitoring of odometer counters. therefore, invulnerability is unlikely, remote monitoring, for example, would most likely be possible.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, commissioner, i must tell you that you have served us a vile soup to make all the workers of europe revolt. the relocations only bring prosperity to the big companies, not to the workers, who suffer and suffer when they are affected. this is inherent in your european policy, which enshrines in the treaties the free movement of capital and free competition. another logic must emerge and this would be possible by moving towards tax harmonization on capital from above, by harmonizing upwards the remuneration of labour with a voluntarist policy of catch-up for employees in the countries of eastern and southern europe, by inventing for all european employees a totally innovative system, a social security of work and activity, combined with permanent training, throughout the life of employees, and, finally, a trade policy including the fight against social and environmental dumping and allowing the renewal of industry and agriculture, as well as public services.
madam president, the european union has decided to pay several billion euros to turkey over the period 2014-2020 to prepare for its accession. turkey's accession to the union is a bad idea from the start because, historically and culturally, turkey is not a european state, but is on the contrary a traditional adversary of europe, which continues to occupy part of cyprus in violation of international law. since july 2016, president erdogan has also used the pretext of an attempted coup d'état to violate press freedom, the right to security and all european values. finally, the european court of auditors revealed in 2018 that turkey has never used the money paid by the union to bring its legislation closer to european standards. in these circumstances, it makes no sense to continue to pay money to turkey. i call on the european union to halt the accession process of turkey and to stop providing pre-accession aid to that country.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this report is a long series of conditions that you set as the alpha and omega of the european union's action in its external relations. the union must not be able to conduct its own foreign policy, much less condition its aid or actions on the ideological delusions which you have in the committee on women's rights and gender equality. you want to apply the same rules in the union's partner countries that are gradually destroying our civilization: quotas, the systematic opposition between men and women, the empowerment of women for purely economic purposes, and so on. but, more seriously, you are asking these people to change their culture and calling for their re-education - i quote you - into patriarchal structures, sexism, homophobia, transphobia, gender normativeness and so on - and this is the best heteronormativeness. other my group will support your minority position, mrs šuica, and will even vote against this report. you could have helped the women in those countries in a practical way, but the ideological turn that the text underwent when it was drafted makes it ineffective and dangerous.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, 854 000 young adults and 1.5 million poor children in france and many others in europe, stranded in precarious jobs in makeshift housing and deprived of any hope of social advancement... europe has responded to this situation, with the collapse of birth rates as a foreseeable consequence, with nothing but a few jobs, voluntary jobs with no future. yet these are being diverted to the benefit of migrants, despite the hostility of public opinion. even a successful programme like erasmus+, which struggles to ensure equitable access for europeans, is thus misled. "we must have greater love for those who are related to us by blood", said st. thomas aquinas, and, i would add, "for love of country". may these words remind us that at a time when an entire generation is at risk of a degradation unprecedented in recent history, giving priority to one's own is a christian, patriotic and moral duty.
madam president, this is a critical time for our european youth. the numbers speak for themselves. the unemployment rate for 18-24 year olds has risen from 15% to 19% since 2008. school dropout rate is up two points. one in three young people is at risk of poverty. we're ten years after the crisis. it can now be said that a whole generation has been sacrificed to the dogma of austerity. in 2008, we saved the banks. in 2018, will we save the youth of europe? all the indicators are in the red and the only answer we offer to the young is pessimism, it is the defiance of politicians, it is the porosity to populism with the consequences we know, not to mention the growing disinterest towards our institutions. remember, only 28 percent of young people voted in 2014. so let's finally listen to the youth. youth is not just a word, youth is our future. shake up the member states and the commission! try to understand that our priority is right there in front of us. our priority is young people and we must invest in them.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the fight against precariousness and the abuse of fixed-term contracts is becoming one of the many sea serpents of this parliament and yet another resolution will do nothing about it. this is where the impossible challenge of social convergence, such as the much-talked-about tax harmonization, comes in. it is hard to believe that we are talking about it, but we hope that it will never happen, since social dumping is one of the drivers of the economies of both the east and the west, but for divergent interests. let us recall the obvious. the precariousness of jobs will end when and only when our respective economies have returned to real growth that will mechanically generate employment. it is essential to protect ourselves against globalisation by means of intelligent protectionism, accompanied by economic patriotism. in the union, you have to buy what the union produces first. in addition, it is urgent to combat social dumping organized by our own directives. unfortunately, the revision of the directive on posted workers, which was voted on tuesday, shows that we are very far from the truth. far from these objectives which should be given priority, your draft resolution is becoming a veritable catch-all, where we find the now inevitable notions of inclusive work, gender equality, atypical and non-standard jobs, and worse... let us also discuss the many contradictions in this proposal. you want to find solutions at european level, whereas in your recital b you state, and i quote: 'the eu's social and labour policy is based on the principle of subsidiarity'. in your article 3 you want to promote safe, well-paid quality jobs and strengthen labour inspections, while in your article 6 you defend the right to seek additional employment, which is precarious employment. what is really serious is the return of the vulnerability of the working poor, who can no longer afford housing, forced part-time cashiers, mini-contracts in public services that are renewed indefinitely, zero-hour contracts, and uncertain or non-existent social protection. worse, you talk about directive 1999/70/ec and hope for action from the commission, but the commission itself is violating this text, with the temporary contracts of some of its staff, when they are permanent posts. clearly, you have a long way to go.
mr president, the nuclear agreement with iran, which we want to see maintained despite the attitude of the united states, does not allow for everything. on the issue of human rights, the iranian government's behaviour is not in accordance with the international covenant on civil and political rights, to which it is a party. the question we are concerned with today is that of binationals. the european union cannot accept that six binational nationals are denied access to the embassy of the european country they are dependent on or to the embassy of another european country. it cannot accept that they do not have access to a lawyer, that they are imprisoned without evidence and without trial because they are simply human rights activists, environmental activists or political activists. we must therefore demand the release of the jailed binationalists and call for more cooperation from iran in the human rights mechanism, including in the framework of the high-level dialogue between the european union and iran.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, your motion for a resolution highlights the arbitrary imprisonment and sentencing of several peaceful activists for human and women's rights. you also pointed out, very rightly, the violence against religious minorities, and i take this opportunity to pay tribute to the christians in that country who are silently suffering this violence. you then call on the kingdom of saudi arabia to abandon what you call the culture of patriarchy, which puts women under guardianship. don't be afraid of the words! the problem here is islamic law, sharia, which is not only the norm in saudi arabia, but also sticks its nose in europe and is beginning to seriously threaten our fellow citizens. you are concerned about what is happening there, but you never mention the threat posed by the growing influence of saudi arabia in europe and france, particularly through islamic networks and the funding of openly salafist mosques, organisations or associations. the resolution is therefore largely incomplete and merely gives the european union a role of a frightened virgin in the face of the spectacle of arbitrary executions or arrests.
mr president, the positive signs given by the saudi crown prince on the international scene in favour of the emancipation of women in saudi arabia are unfortunately contradicted by the behaviour of the state inside the country. the saudi population, which is known to be very connected to social networks, is eagerly awaiting a liberation of morals and gender equality. despite this, the press and media, which are essential to the balance of power, are still not free. we deplore, as many colleagues have said, that raif badawi, winner of the 2015 sakharov prize, is still in prison for crimes of opinion. the fight for women's liberation in saudi arabia is just beginning. the european union must play a role in the effective development of this country, which is subject to a patriarchal system from another era which does not recognise the right of women to be autonomous and to freely decide on their daily lives.
mr president, the difference in tone of the emergencies this morning shows how not all countries are treated equally by some here. there are friendly countries, partner countries and others. the letter sent by the saudi embassy is a piece of anthology. the country is said to be in a phase of massive reforms. - what's the deed? there is still a long way to go to get it out of the middle ages, especially for women who still live under the tutelage of men. indeed, women are finally getting the right to drive. what progress in 2018! and what to think when, a few days before the entry into force of this right, activists and women's rights activists are arrested, like loujain al-hathloul, for committing a crime of lèse majesté while attending a cedaw meeting, and are put under house arrest. so if prince ben salman has any real will to reform, these men and women, including raif badawi, our sakharov prize, who are not in the service of foreigners but of freedom, must be released and the prince must stop torturing the yemeni people.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the fault of noura hussein ahmad, who was forced into marriage, held captive by two members of her in-laws and then raped at the age of 19 by the man to whom she was destined, was that she did not accept this violence, resisted and killed her rapist. his fate deserves our unqualified condemnation. we must save her, by all means, from the death sentence that the sudanese regime is promising her. since hassan al-tourabi, this regime has based its principles on the most radical islam. many europeans are not shocked to see sharia infesting our societies, from molenbeek to birmingham, from the french suburbs to rotterdam. so much so that in 2004 the french civil code had to be reformed to raise the age of marriage for women in france from 15 to 18 years, to avoid the dozens of forced or arranged marriages, now imposed by customs totally alien to our civilization. this young woman's case is only the most dramatic expression of a plan that many of you here pretend to ignore. the forced islamisation of our societies is a reality we must combat at all costs.
the agenda calls for the debate on the enlarged interpellation with a request for a written reply and for the debate by marietje schaake, eva kaili, hilde vautmans, rory palmer, petras auštrevičius, beatriz becerra basterrechea, igor šoltes, izaskun bilbao barandica, liliana rodrigues, monika beňová, dominique martin, jordi solé, merja kyllönen, michaela šojdrová, anneli jäätteenmäki, patricia lalonde, marian harkin, maria gabriela zoană, antónio marinho e pinto, catherine bearder, fredrickley, federate weber, nathalie griesbeck, nadja hirschwarth, luke flanagan, beni brando, takis hadjige, wajid wajid, frédéric auštrevičius, and the president of the commission, ms. ana maria zaharia (reaction against human rights violations in the context of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities) (2018/27/2018) and ms. maria zaharia vázquez, president of the commission, ms. josé maría gonzalez-vic, ms.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for a debate on the enlarged bureau's request for a written answer and the debate on the commission: celebration of international family day (15 may) (g-000004/2018 b8-0021/2018) (2018/2722(rsp)).
welcome to stella. we will follow your family's adventures at every major arrest, mrs. šojdrová. i wish you many grandchildren.
the debate is closed.
i declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.
member of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank you for all the work that you have put into this file and for the continued support of parliament, especially mr marinescu and his colleagues from the committee on transport and tourism (tran), for the commission’s proposal. parliament has played a major role in these negotiations. now it is for plenary to confirm the compromise text that has been reached with council last december. this will contribute to our common strategic objective of achieving a deeper and fairer internal market while fostering innovation, with a strong positive impact on jobs and growth. a safe and competitive european aviation industry needs an effective and balanced legislation such as the one which you will vote on tomorrow. this new regulation is also a centrepiece of the commission’s 2015 aviation strategy for europe, ensuring safe, secure and environmentally-friendly aviation for eu citizens. it does so through a better use of resources, the enforcement of risk- and performance-based requirements, and by eliminating unnecessary administrative burdens. in practical terms, we are changing the certification process to be more tuned in for innovation, which means shortening time-to-market and keeping our industry more competitive. this regulation closes the existing gap in the regulatory system and introduces effective, cooperative safety management processes. importantly, it includes a system of pooling and sharing of resources between the member states and easa and establishes better governance for our aviation agency. allow me to underline other key benefits of the new regulation. it takes into account new technologies and market developments to ensure that they are efficiently integrated into the aviation system as well as subject to effective and proportionate oversights. this is in particular the case for the safe operation of drones, with new provisions regarding registration of drones and drones’ operations. i wish to thank again parliament, and particularly mr marinescu, for the strong support on this important topic. it is worth pointing out that we are going to get, for the first time eu-wide, a regulatory framework for drones. this regulation also takes into account the interdependencies between aviation safety and aviation security. in the future, easa will play a role in aviation security, including cybersecurity, and contribute upon request with its expertise to the implementation of rules in this area. another very important point for parliament was the establishment of an oversight support mechanism. this objective has been achieved. this new mechanism will represent an important instrument for a high and uniform aviation safety in europe. let me finally mention that the commission has prepared a declaration concerning the global navigation satellite system (gnss), as previously announced during the negotiations. the declaration should be attached to the plenary minutes and transmitted to the council. with your positive vote tomorrow, the new easa regulation could enter into force in the second half of this year. the commission is ready for this and has already started to prepare the implementation of this new regulation. commission statement(in writing) in the view of the commission, services consisting of the emission of signals by satellites of core constellations of global navigation satellite systems (gnss), such as the system established under the galileo programme and other similar systems, are as such not to be considered as air traffic management and air navigation services (atm/ans) as defined in article 3, read in conjunction with the corresponding recital, of new regulation of the european parliament and of the council on common rules in the field of civil aviation and establishing a european union aviation safety agency and repealing regulation (ec) no 216/2008 of the european parliament and of the council. this view is based, in particular, on the fact that those signals are not primarily or exclusively emitted for the purpose of air navigation, but are used for that purpose only through services that augment those signals, which are expressly covered by the definition of atm/ans.
for the greens/efa group mr president, thank you, madam commissioner, and thank you to our rapporteur, mr marinescu. sometimes it is not easy to reach agreements, but we have succeeded. i have to tell you that we have one of the best performing airspaces in the world in terms of safety in europe and it is thanks to easa, it is thanks to the european harmonisation of civil aviation standards that we have today this single european sky. but aviation is a sector that is changing and needs to adapt. on the one hand, technological changes, with the arrival of drones in large numbers. it is true that we - the greens - have called for the control of drones weighing as little as 250 grams, a european registration and a driving licence for all users. we've had fewer, but the most dangerous categories of drones at least seem to be well-regulated. we will, however, remain very vigilant about future delegated acts and feedback from the u-space programme led by sesar, to fully understand how drone air traffic can be managed in a way that is 100% safe and harmless. on the other hand, the airline is experiencing social changes. this sector is highly exposed to precarious employment in models such as low-cost or certain regular companies. we have long denounced certain practices that are permitted in europe, such as zero-hour contracts, pay-to-fly or the status of fake selfemployed. the legislation also links safety with the social conditions of airline workers so that a tragedy like that of germanwings can never happen again. finally, we are also seeing an acceleration in traffic: + 50% by 2030, x 3 by 2050, forecasts show an acceleration in the sector that is completely incompatible with the climate agreements and this is where easa has an added value, since it has environmental skills, so that progress can be made in the area of lightening materials, the use of hydrocarbons and the electrification of soils. that is why we will vote in favour of your report tomorrow, mr marinescu.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we count on european roads, we find only 5% of all vehicles on the road being trucks. yet these trucks produce about 25% or a quarter of the greenhouse gas emissions from road transport in the european union. it is high time that we put an end to this imbalance if we are to meet the cop 21 commitments to save the climate and the planet, but also to give citizens a chance to breathe. monitoring of co2 emissions and fuel consumption of trucks is good news. until recently, co2 emissions and fuel consumption of heavy goods vehicles were neither reported nor monitored in an objective and comparable way in the european union. transport companies will now be able to choose the vehicles with the lowest consumption and emissions, which will reduce costs and pollution. we must not stop there, the road freight sector must do more and better to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. the step we are taking today is obviously necessary, but it must above all serve as a basis for the near future, i.e. to establish mandatory co2 emission limits for all trucks in the european union. the commission has recently made proposals to this effect with a view to achieving a genuine and complete decarbonisation of the sector by 2050. i hope that we will be there, ladies and gentlemen, to give more strength, more substance and more ambition to this proposal so that the road freight sector emits 50% less greenhouse gases by 2030 and more by 2050. so if we stick to it, then we have a chance to meet our commitments, particularly cop 21, because we are all dancing on the same volcano in the face of climate change, so let's seize this opportunity.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, it was on the basis of the fact that 38 per cent of greenhouse gas emissions come from road transport that the commission presented in 2017 a system for monitoring and reporting data on co2 emissions from new heavy-duty vehicles. in doing so, the commission runs the risk of being incoherent. in parallel with this desire to reduce co2 emissions, which led france to promote the diesel engine, which allows it to have co2 emissions more than 10% lower than the european average, the commission has launched the hunt for diesel in favour of petrol. it is clear that petrol engines, which consume more fuel than diesel engines, ultimately emit 25% more co2 than diesel engines. so it's a vicious circle and the builders don't know what to do with it. on the one hand, the co2 hunt, on the other, the diesel hunt. once again, this will be a punitive ecology, with administrative fines that will go straight into the pockets of europe, which will hit the heavy industry to the detriment of a policy promoting good eco-conduct practices and supporting manufacturers and oems towards economically viable environmental objectives. this commission proposal is all the more unreasonable because it does not take into account the reality of the manufacturing and use of trucks. the manufacturers produce bare chassis which are then used for different types of transport depending on the box under the trailer chosen for the final use. the manufacturer's data thus becomes unusable and de facto useless factory data, but which will actually increase the final product bill. the only option for manufacturers is to switch to alternative fuels with lower co2 emissions, such as lng or electricity. this is already being done by many manufacturers; but the technocrats behind this text simply forget that these different types of fuel, while suitable for certain short journeys, are still and for some time to come relatively unusable on long journeys. in this context, it would be in the commission's interest to encourage the development of alternative fuel charging and distribution points before attacking manufacturers who simply meet the demand for a specific type of vehicle and correspond to current needs and possibilities.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, in 2000, the lisbon strategy aimed to make the european union the most competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based area in the world. fourteen years later, the commission set the target of a golden age by 2020, when 40% of a generation would have a university degree and 85% would have basic knowledge. the international rankings follow one another and are similar, and the figures are stubborn. the qs ranking, published on 6 june, puts the top university in continental europe, excluding switzerland, in 50th place, based on the opinion of some 42 000 employers. it is true that one can protest against the criteria used, just as when a great sportsman is defeated it is common to curse the weather, the freshness of the grass or the partiality of the referee. but the pisa tests, which see some european regions competing with developing countries, and the decline of our research, as evidenced by the mass exodus of researchers, all confirm that, in a fierce global competition, europe seems to have given up the fight. how could it be otherwise when, with the help of guidelines, the european union is constantly giving the member states a taste for sophisticated educational whims that undermine the foundations of centuries-old national traditions. i'm thinking of the totem of new technology in school, where everyone from the oecd to the american academy of pediatrics now recognizes its deleterious effect on academic performance and mental health. not to mention the overconsumption of pornographic and violent content online and the associated risks of cyberbullying, which can have irreversible consequences on the mental, emotional, and emotional development of young people. i also think of the contempt for the hierarchy between teacher and pupil, which echoes with a cruel echo at a time when fear has become a familiar companion for so many teachers in the lost suburbs of the french republic. but most striking is the stark contradiction between the aspiration for excellence and diversity. thus, while more than 15% of heads of disadvantaged schools in france and belgium consider diversity of origin as a barrier to learning, the exponential arrival of migrants in ex-blood school systems will be all the more disastrous as it is not accompanied by any effort at assimilation, with the requirement of language proficiency giving way to that of multilingualism. teachers are now required to encourage the knowledge of the migrant pupil's mother tongue. the time is long gone when hordes of immigrants from the borders of poland or italy sacrificed their language and identity on the altar of a new homeland of hope and social advancement. between school and identity, the inclusive school dreamed of by brussels will sow the seeds of bottom-up, communitarianism and division.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 june 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by carlos iturgaiz, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, entitled 'towards a sustainable and competitive european aquaculture sector' (a8-0186/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 june 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by norica nicolaï, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the state of recreational fishing in the european union 2017/2120 (ini) (a8-0191/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday 12 june 2018.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 163).
madam president, i would like to draw the attention of the european parliament to the case of the ghost children. unicef estimates that there are 230 million of them, 95 million of them in sub-saharan africa, i.e. in the european union's partner countries. what is a ghost child? it is a child whose birth has not been registered in the civil registry, and therefore does not exist. he can't go to school, he can't have cover, he can't have official work and so naturally he's either exploited or begging. so naturally, it is not a question of doing this for the countries, since the royal prerogative of civil status belongs to them, but we could help many of them to find solutions and implement them, for example, better use of digital technology, public awareness campaigns or mobile civil status offices. with a number of colleagues who agreed to join me, we wrote to the commissioner for development and humanitarian affairs and the president of the commission asking them to mobilise unused edf or icdi (instrument for development cooperation) funds so that they could help these countries.
this item has been closed.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, in italy, after the speech, there are the acts! on sunday, the italian minister of the interior and deputy prime minister, our former colleague matteo salvini, took a first strong step. sovereignly, on behalf of his country, he decided to deny access to italian ports to a ship from libya and won his battle with the maltese authorities. the ship was chartered by a so-called humanitarian ngo and was carrying more than 600 illegal migrants. the smuggling mafias that thrive on human trafficking, encouraged by the irresponsible speeches of certain european leaders, mrs merkel in the lead, had promised these migrants a european eldorado that does not exist, that no longer exists! the only solution to the migration challenge, the only truly humane, just and responsible solution, is the firm refusal of this kind of permanent blackmail of human rights! enough is enough! we can no longer accept "immigrants". no way, i'm not going to do this. matteo salvini is applying the same method as australia, which has made it possible to completely dry up the flows of illegal immigration to that country. then what are you waiting for? what are you waiting for, then, to finally hear our people ask you to put an end, once and for all, to these totally anarchic migration flows? it is urgent to protect our national borders and to implement genuine european cooperation to effectively defend the external borders, taking inspiration from the actions of hungary yesterday and italy today. the means, whether legislative, technological, financial or human, are there! what we lack, what you lack, is real political will.
madam president, the unilateral increase in steel and aluminum tariffs and president trump's g7 cover-up are finally bringing you back to reality. finally, we hear here that we must free ourselves from american tutelage, which has so far been considered by many to be very comfortable. but i will believe it when we finally leave nato, whose existence is no longer justified. i will believe that especially when you give up the free trade negotiated with the whole world and return to the principle of reciprocity included in the 1948 havana charter. as for your migration policy, i will believe it when the examination of asylum applications is carried out exclusively from the countries of origin and not in our countries, where all the measures taken so far have had the effect of a call for new flows of arrivals. mr bullmann and other speakers spoke of pregnant women and children who wandered on a ship in the mediterranean. it is not mr salvini who is responsible for this situation, but rather the words of mrs merkel and yours that are encouraging them to risk their lives. as for the human rights discourse, i will believe it when genuine political refugees, such as edward snowden or julian assange, are welcomed into the european union.
madam president, all european councils are important, but the one in june is special. this is the last opportunity to show that europe refuses to remain paralysed on the migration issue. it is a question of credibility for the 28 and it is their responsibility. the subject on which the council must come out of the corner is the revision of the dublin regulation, everyone agreed on that today. we have achieved this in parliament, whereas we are much more numerous and sometimes much more diverse, so it is not an impossible task. but for that to happen, heads of state must stop covering their faces. migration will not stop overnight, and they are obliged to find a shared solution, otherwise what will happen is quite simple: each member state close to a migratory route will continue to spend its energy pushing people back across the border or at sea, without finding or even looking for a structural response. in this context, it is quite clear that the 2019 european elections will be the scene of a hysterical political exploitation of the immigration issue, to the detriment of all others, and in a way, i am sorry, that is also what happened today.
madam president, mr vice-president, madam representative of the council, the european parliament does indeed respect the existence of the european council, but i have the impression that the reverse is not always true. given the importance of this european council, i am surprised that mr donald tusk never thinks it useful to come and talk to the parliamentary representation. because what context are we in? we have just had a g7 where president trump seems to be ignorant of what transatlantic solidarity is or even good transatlantic cooperation. we are in a situation where mrs theresa may, after taking over the government responsible for organising brexit, is unable to say what she wants for the future of her country. all this places an immense responsibility on the future of europe, as this council will have to deal with migration issues, the reform of the euro area and the defence issue. we would therefore like to know how mr tusk intends to propose a roadmap on the future of the european union in order to obtain a good agreement in the light of these three essential elements, so that each of our fellow citizens can continue to have confidence in the european union and not turn their backs on it, as we have just seen in italy.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr vice-president, in this debate we have been having for a long time, i regret that the debate on the renewal of the multiannual financial framework is, in fact, a debate that is being launched, which will end at some point, even though we do not fundamentally agree on the future of a euro area budget. but there is a link between the two, and we see this clearly when mrs merkel tells us: 'we will discuss the euro area budget after we have discussed the multiannual financial framework'. so what will be left to organize the parallel path of these two tools? my second comment concerns the stabilization function and the way in which the european commission has put a proposal to that effect on the table. the fact that you acknowledge that this function must be fulfilled, the fact that you put a proposal on the table, is of course welcome, but you must acknowledge that when we call your proposal an embryo, we are almost below reality, because those in this house and elsewhere who are still trying to learn from the conduct of business by the imf are not listening enough to the imf, which, from this point of view, tells us that we need a real automatic stabilizer, as we also said in the berès-böge report that you have quoted. my third point concerns the transformation of the european stability mechanism into a european monetary fund. we ask you not to use this terminology, it must be a european stabilisation fund. the monetary fund may not be transferred within the european union. we support the commission in ensuring that this does not lead to a reduction in your budgetary powers and we are also with you in advocating that the community method be fully applied in this area. i would be extremely sorry if this european council did not move forward in concert and make a radical step forward in the transformation of the esm into a european monetary fund, and if it were ridiculous in terms of this stabilizing function which we so badly need.
mr president, mr vice-president, we are not hiding our faces on the subject of economic and monetary union: the commission proposes it, but germany has it. mr macron, mrs merkel's vassal, has already made half a dozen speeches on the virtues of a federal europe and the european commission proposed on 6 december its package of measures on deepening emu. since then, macron and juncker have been anxiously awaiting the response of the berlin pythia, angela merkel, and this response confirms my worst economic fears about the future european monetary fund. the german version of the emf, designed by schäuble and goldman sachs, represented by mr kukies, will become the budgetary policeman of the euro zone. the european parliament has already expressed its concern about the situation in the former yugoslavia. mrs merkel wants the emf to be empowered to trigger the automatic restructuring of a member state's sovereign debt and to have more power to control that state's budget. it is therefore the end of financial independence and the potential subordination of a nation. i need not tell you that i will be fighting politically against this financial totalitarianism of the european union. we in france will ensure that this worsening of the economic governance of the euro area never happens. no to austerity against the europeans!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the architecture of economic and monetary union has evolved considerably in recent years with the development of the banking union and the capital markets union, and with the establishment of the european stability mechanism, which played a major role in ensuring the stability of the euro area during the sovereign debt crisis by reassuring markets and providing financial assistance to various member states. because it is still vulnerable to the risks of economic and financial destabilisation, further progress in the construction of economic and monetary union should be made by transforming the european stability mechanism into a european monetary fund. this new stage should strengthen and improve the efficiency of the euro area in order to make it more resilient and to strengthen the protection of our savers. the fund will primarily be intended to continue the work of the european stability mechanism in crisis prevention and management. but it will have to be given new functions to encourage investment and to act as a safety net for the bank rescue fund. progress towards economic and monetary union will not be possible without democratic legitimacy, which is why the european parliament must be fully involved, as must the national parliaments.
mr president, very quickly, i am very sorry about the train breakdown yesterday and i understand the inconvenience for colleagues and especially for all the staff. but we are here in the european parliament and we must respect the treaties, so i would simply like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that the seat of strasbourg is now the seat of the european parliament and we must bear this in mind.
mr president, for french companies, the vienna agreement on the iranian nuclear programme represented a hope of regaining market shares in a large country with which france has long had privileged relations. psa made a spectacular comeback with 450,000 vehicles sold last year and good prospects in this country of 82 million people. the french carmaker thus took over the place it had to give to its american competitor general motors after a decree signed by barack obama in june 2013. peugeot and citroën have long been established in iran and the iranian market has once again become their first foreign market ahead of china. iran is also a strategic issue for another french industrial giant, total, which signed a very large gas contract in july 2017. iran has the second largest natural gas reserves in the world, after russia. instead of vainly gloating about president trump's tariff hikes, denounce and act against the scandal of the extraterritoriality of us law, which seriously harms our economic interests. a council regulation of november 1996 is supposed to protect european companies but it was never implemented, for lack of the courage to take up a real fight with the united states. in 2014, we should have prevented the us judiciary from imposing a record fine of 9 billion dollars on bnp, already because of the us embargo on iran. the united states is defending its interests, it is time for the european nations to defend theirs.
mr president, the intolerable pretension of the united states to impose the universality of its sanctions on the whole world, after its unilateral denunciation of the agreement with iran, is totally unacceptable. we are paying for the total lack of reaction when we let the french bank bnp paribas be blackmailed by the united states to the tune of 7 billion euros 9 billion dollars because its swiss subsidiary had continued to work with iran. i am the only member who has called the commission and the council to account. your answers were indigent, as was that of french president hollande, who was visiting this house at the time. today you still oppose the words 'point of contact', 'continuation of discussions', 'blocking law', but european companies 'total', 'peugeot', 'airbus' have already abandoned their projects in this country. the only effective measures would be to prepare ourselves to put in escrow american assets equivalent to european assets which would be looted by the american authorities. we have been allies of the united states of america, we are not their vassals.
mr president, it is not out of complacency or naivety that the signatories of the jcpoa (joint comprehensive plan of action) have favoured the diplomatic route on the iranian nuclear issue, but because for 15 years it has been clear that there is no realistic alternative to deal with this threat, because it is a serious threat. europeans must be a pole of stability and reliability on the international stage. the word of a multilateral agreement binds its signatories, beyond domestic political disputes. a sudden break from it offers no satisfactory solution to anyone. the agreement does not, of course, address the problems posed by tehran's policy in the region or the legitimate concern about the development of iran's ballistic capabilities. but on the one hand we were very well aware of this when we negotiated the agreement and on the other hand it is inconsistent to think that these disputes can be resolved by first calling into question the nuclear agreement, which is a foundation, albeit a fragile one, for any more general negotiation. military adventurism in a deeply unstable middle east has already caused enough damage.
madam president, madam high representative, madam mogherini, ladies and gentlemen, the iran nuclear agreement must be preserved in spite of the withdrawal of the united states. the idea of adding three clauses to it, as some leaders of the european member states have suggested, is unrealistic. the iranians will never accept that and we are taking the risk that iran will resume uranium enrichment. iran is not north korea. the iranian people will stand with their leaders and any western attempt to orchestrate regime change risks plunging the region into total chaos, with europe likely to be the first victim. the iranians are demanding the right to self-defense, the iran-iraq war has killed more than half a million people and is still present among iranians, as these posters of the martyrs on the facades of the streets of tehran, as in all cities in iran, remind us. europe must use diplomacy to get the iranians to withdraw from southern syria. we must have real negotiations on yemen with the houthis rather than harassing iran with empty threats. ladies and gentlemen, we must do everything possible to get the sanctions against iran lifted and try to circumvent the american sanctions so that european companies can stay in iran. the future of europe is at stake, and i know how convinced you are, mrs mogherini.
madam president, the strengthening and modernisation of the eu-chile association agreement is part of the normal development of any bilateral relationship. to evolve in line with local and regional political events and, incidentally, regional and global trade and diplomatic data. in this case, we are presented with a text that deals with fundamental issues, international relations that must be strengthened, but also with sometimes trivial data that are of interest only to a minority of chileans, such as considerations of sexual orientation. the situation in chile, although it appears to be more stable despite regular political changes, reveals some weak points, such as the situation of students, which is still unresolved, the cost of raw materials, which is still very volatile, and the case of indigenous peoples who are awaiting their rights. finally, chile's accession to the trans-pacific treaty, among others, should alert us to the multiplicity of regional agreements, which may create inconsistencies in the various international cooperation. this should lead us to define very carefully the fields of action of the association with this particularly close country.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the reading of this report is always a great moment, as it is full of illustrious satisfaction and double standards. i am far from saying that the european union is doing nothing, but we all know that human rights are generally in a bad way and that many of them are declining, including, as has been said, in the european union. a few examples, which i think are very telling. business and human rights: we know how much european business is flouting human rights around the world, how difficult it has been for the eu to participate in the un's work on creating a binding tool in this area, and how much it is doing to minimize its impact. the same applies to political dialogues on these issues with asia and south america. these are the countries where european companies are at the forefront of land grabbing and deforestation. brazil is cited as an example, where a third of the amazon forest has been destroyed, not to mention the displaced and murdered local populations. how has the european union changed things? the same is true of efforts to support the icc. the high representative's statement of november 2017 on the visit of mr el-bashir to uganda, russia and chad is quoted. but the eu cooperates with sudan and legitimises it internationally through the khartoum process. and what can be said of the cynicism about migration policies: we welcome the human lives saved, forgetting the deaths in the mediterranean, almost 15 000 in three years, in the desert but also on the soil of the european union. people who have been turned away, deported, even to dictatorships, like sudan. the same applies when we welcome a statement by aung san suu kyi on the rohingya and, more amusingly, i would say, the dialogue on social rights with cuba. all this lacks modesty, realism and at least a minimum of critical sense.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this commitment to democracy throughout the world is remarkable, but here in the european parliament it seems to me that it is a priority for us to be concerned about democracy in europe and, for my part, a fortiori, in france. in europe too, freedoms are being trampled on. the democratically elected governments of hungary and poland are defending the identity of their people, and you are threatening them. the italians have two parties in power which are concerned with the interests of their people, and the eurocrats are calling for their will not to be respected. but is it any wonder that a commission headed by mr junker, in order to force greece to submit, said that there could be no democratic choice against the european treaties? under the pretext of fighting fake news and hate speech, any dissenting expression is censored on social networks. in france, the identitarians in particular have had a bitter experience, as did tommy robinson in england, for denouncing the evils of immigration. this serious decline in freedoms in europe is profoundly dangerous and yet you condone and encourage it.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the history of south ossetia is tragic. we have to remember the genocide perpetrated by the georgian authorities in 1920, the unilateral suppression of the autonomy of ossetia and abkhazia by the georgian authorities in 1991, the war and the ceasefire. the american determination, that of presidents clinton and obama, to cut off europe from russia has led georgia to a military aggression against north ossetia with a military defeat. this is a fact, as evidenced by our witnesses and intelligence. ladies and gentlemen, mrs mogherini, russia's policy in georgia is our policy in serbia with kosovo, with less justice (kosovo is historically part of serbia), with less violence (the russians did not destroy georgia as we destroyed serbia). so we're hypocrites in that we don't see these facts.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam high representative, we were not going to hold you responsible for this placement. first of all, i would like to thank ioan paşcu, who has done an excellent job, who has built this report on the contributions of all the groups, and i really wanted to thank him very solemnly for the quality of the work he has done in making a very balanced report on a subject which too often gives rise to very ideological debates - i was almost going to say theological - when we need something concrete. you have said, madam high representative, the rapporteur has said, we need to work in a practical and pragmatic way. practical, because since the warsaw summit in 2016, there are several dozen very concrete points to be implemented. you mentioned the areas where progress has already been made, and that is what counts. pragmatic, because complementarity must be paramount. there are too many security issues around us in europe to waste time bickering between these two organizations. we have the means to work in a complementary and efficient way. the two lines that must guide european engagement are, on the one hand, the recognition of nato's essential role in collective defence - and this is something no one can dispute - and, on the other hand, the affirmation of our ambition for strategic autonomy, because strategic autonomy is not strategic isolation, it is not directed against anyone, but it is the ability to decide with whom we do things and want to do things. that is strategic autonomy and we must move in that direction, we must keep that ambition. i believe that the report is perfectly balanced between these two requirements which must guide european action.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, yes, you are right, mr dartmouth! the situation in ukraine, ladies and gentlemen, is getting worse by the day. the war in donbass, corruption ukraine ranks 131 out of 176 in the world in terms of corruption , denial of democracy, freedom of the press violated, crime rising, including up to the top of the state; and let's remember the babchenko case. no, the kiev regime, madam, is not making any effort and you know it! we see in this latest macrofinancial assistance only the expression of a fierce will on the part of brussels to maintain tensions with russia. but beyond this form of interventionism on the part of the commission in relation to ukraine, i denounce here the commission's intention to take advantage of the situation to increase its powers and thus reduce the role of our parliament to that of a simple registration chamber. finally, madam president, ladies and gentlemen, these large sums would be much better spent on supporting our farmers who have been held hostage since 2014 as a result of the sanctions against russia and who are now paying the price for the disastrous and unwise political choices that we are firmly opposed to.
in writing. on 12 june 2018, the european parliament voted on a motion for a resolution on cyber defence: a good initiative (in theory...) which is legally in line with the european union's strategic framework for cyber defence of 18 november 2014 and the resolution on the fight against cyber crime of 3 october 2017. we welcome the fact that brussels is taking seriously the threat of cyberattacks, the number of incidents of which is undeniable, and the threats both economic and terrorist. unfortunately, cyber defense is like a lock whose keys should not be given away. if each member state has its own system, it is all the more difficult to attack. on the other hand, the standardization or coordination of systems makes them vulnerable: it is enough to find a key to bring down the whole system. in the same vein, the continuous development of these techniques requires a high degree of reactivity, which is impossible to implement in 27 member states: we are witnessing this... moreover, as cyber defence incorporates military dimensions and cyberspace is increasingly considered as the 'fifth area of war', france must maintain its independence in this particularly sensitive sector.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the 21st century is witnessing the emergence of a new economy, that of the management of our consumer products after use. it is an economy in its own right, based not only on the economic principle of value creation, profit and job creation, but also on a new vision of consumption, because it is of course the object of consumption itself, from our daily food to motor vehicles, our homes or our auxiliaries and robots, but also their packaging and waste. the new idea is to take all these parameters into account before consumption, in advance, and no longer afterwards. a radical change that can save us from disappearing under our own objects and waste. so, globalised finance may be acceptable, especially if it is the case that large economies are involved. the fact that the jobs created are often low-skilled and local is a unique opportunity to combat unemployment which affects the most vulnerable. so yes, recycling must be done as close to the place of consumption as possible.
madam president, the european union produces 2.5 billion tonnes of waste a year, of which 25 million tonnes is plastic waste. the circular economy has therefore become an urgent imperative. but make no mistake: implementing a circular economy in cohesion policy will not be enough. all the union's policies must be geared to the environment, and this requires a copernican revolution of the minds, it requires getting rid of consumerism, the throwaway economy, the waste society. and my colleague lambert van nistelrooij is right: we must also support research to foster technological innovation in order to achieve this goal.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, we are here today to celebrate the anniversary of the signing of the istanbul convention by the european union exactly one year ago. it is a nice anniversary, we congratulate each other, we look in the rearview mirror and we see how much better women are now protected, because the istanbul convention is a legally binding treaty and the best tool to prevent violence, protect victims and bring perpetrators to justice. but this anniversary is by no means a celebration, because after a year of negotiations between the commission and the council, no significant progress has been made. you can see that the negotiations are progressing and that some of the member states are showing goodwill, for which i am very grateful. but we need unanimity here. poland and hungary, to name just a few, refuse to make any progress on the matter. these governments have turned their backs on half of their population, who may become victims, denying our right to live free from violence. and what a force of conviction in the bulgarian presidency of the council, which withdrew a bill for ratification in its own country. no wonder the negotiations at european level are dragging on. the council has already restricted the scope of the union's accession to the istanbul convention. it has chosen to limit it to a few specific areas, whereas this parliament called for the widest possible membership. the legal arguments for these unfortunate restrictions have been rejected by our legal service. so stop there, stop opposing what can really help women in europe, what can end the impunity of those responsible. the european union must ratify the convention as soon as possible, as must the 10 member states which have not yet done so at national level.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, just over a year ago, the european union signed the istanbul convention. you have succeeded in getting this text accepted by a large majority of our colleagues in parliament, with a great deal of demagogy. i guess so. so today, one year later, it's time to settle the score. you claim to be saving women and girls who are victims of violence and you highlighted, at the eye event for european youth a few days ago, women defending the islamic veil, a symbol, i would say, of the real threat facing european women today. you claim to defend equality between men and women by promoting what you call gender equality. do you really think that imposing gender ideology, as you do, on everyone and especially on our children, will reduce violence against women? you claim to finally bring the light of european democracy to all the women and girls of europe, and when the bulgarian, hungarian and polish governments, among others, refuse to sign your little red book of gender, they are lynched in the public square. they are particularly aware that the istanbul convention will in no way protect european women from the real dangers that threaten them today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to draw your attention to the assault which has just been launched by the saudi-led coalition on hodeidah, the main port of yemen. this port is the main source of humanitarian aid. we risk witnessing an unprecedented humanitarian catastrophe and this without witnesses, as un personnel and leading ngos have been asked to leave. europe should use diplomacy and support the efforts of martin griffiths, the un special envoy, to reach a negotiated solution.
mr president, i was a supporter of nato when 6,000 soviet tanks were camped a night's journey from our borders, when the soviet union held in the demonic grip of communism half of europe that the americans had handed over to it at yalta, when it was a menacing power, when communism continued its ruthless advance by subversion or by armed conquest in asia, in latin america. but what about today? communism has collapsed, the soviet union has withdrawn from eastern europe, from the countries that were part of the former tsarist empire, it has given back its freedom to the baltics, to the caucasus countries - even if there is still a problem in abkhazia - to belarus, to ukraine - even if there is still a problem in crimea. nato is no longer a justification, it is the instrument of our strategic and political submission to the united states... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, are you blind, have you not seen what has just happened at the g7? have you not seen the contempt shown by donald trump for all his european allies, including his close neighbor, canada? have you not noticed the isolation of the united states? do you not understand that this is a unique, historic opportunity for europe to exist? when justin trudeau, in a dignified reaction, says no to donald trump, you, in your report, propose that we continue to play the role of servants in nato and continue the dangerous policy of tension with russia. it is hopeless, and that is why i voted against this report; we are the ones who want a europe of peace, while you want a europe of war through nato.
mr president, matteo salvini was right to turn back the aquarius: italy can no longer continue to receive boats carrying illegal migrants. the migration flood must stop. this is a warning. the european union must stop being the gravedigger of the identity of the peoples of europe. commissioner avramopoulos said on 8 june 2015 that his aim was to welcome 50 million migrants by 2060. the people of europe are opposed to it. it is time to fight against the networks of smugglers and against the ngos which are objectively their accomplices. the solution is not to introduce mandatory quotas for the relocation of migrants, as the dublin iv project would like to do. the solution is to make agreements with the countries of departure to persuade them to hold or take back migrants who try to leave. it is the future of european civilization that is at stake. africa will double its population to 2.5 billion by 2050. if we do not act now, our model of society will disappear under the blows of immigration, communalism and radical islam. good work matteo salvini for being the watchdog of the future of the european union!
mr president, yes, the blackmailing of the italian government is inhuman and deeply shocking, as well as being illegal. but the italian government did not come to power by breaking and entering. the monster salvini is not here by breaking and entering. it is the lack of solidarity of the european union in welcoming the 700 000 refugees! this is the cowardice of the european leaders! it is national selfishness that has fed the beast! it is cowardly of the european leaders to delegate our obligations in terms of welcome to the dictator erdoğan! it is cowardice of the european leaders with blood on their hands to hand over refugees to the libyan armed gangs while turning a blind eye to the rapes, the murders, the violence! it is the cynicism and irresponsibility of president macron when he maintains an iron fence against refugees at the italian border! so the european parliament has set an example: let's break dublin, let's welcome the refugees collectively and let the european leaders stick their heads out of the sand to listen to us!
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i have just heard you condemn one after another italy's sovereign decision not to take in 629 migrants. so that decision would not be human; humanity, in your view, would consist in encouraging the ngos that play taxi for migrants in the mediterranean for the greater happiness of the smugglers, who have made a business of it and turn the mediterranean into a cemetery. last year, an italian police officer who had infiltrated an ngo on the juventa revealed the disgusting links between some ngos and smugglers. when will we ever pay attention to the people in this sordid business? your condemnation of italy is indecent, because who are you to lecture a country and a people who have suffered the arrival of 700,000 illegal immigrants since 2013? in a country whose economy has stagnated since the adoption of the euro, where unemployment is endemic, how can we fail to realise the burden these economic migrants represent? with the arrival of these illegal immigrants, whose customs and ways of life are sometimes so different from ours, how can we not sympathize with the italians who have experienced so many difficulties? matteo salvini and the italian government are right to say 'stop', whatever they think and whatever mr macron and his friends say. this situation cannot be sustained. thanks to schengen, illegal refugees in spain will be able to cross the pyrenees as they used to cross the alps, and they will be able to choose to settle where it is most beneficial to them after benchmarking the conditions of asylum in europe. it is high time that each country regained its sovereignty, that spain should welcome all the world's migrants if it wishes, but that france should... (the president withdrew)
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, no, national decisions restricting access to regulated professions are not moral faults. national action is virtuous when it comes to limiting the effects of the european union's action and its permanent deregulation, and much more legitimate when it comes to defending the interests of europeans. national action is based on the search for the common good and aims to protect strategic professions that serve and protect the citizen. the unfair and savage competition created by the destruction of these balances is the only horizon you offer to our fellow citizens. this report forces the member states to censure national action, which is unjustifiable and intolerable. the proportionality check is a real supervision, self-censorship and a new renunciation by france, since its authorities have just recommended the adoption of this procedure. this concept of limited democracy is increasingly threatening the health, strength and power of our nations. be assured that the disregard for common sense and the ever more obvious interference of the european union will be the markers of the forthcoming electoral schedules, and we trust the european voters who are showing common sense. we saw it recently in italy.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and the fictitious rapporteur for the quality of their work, which was all the more necessary given the poor quality of the commission's original proposal. this criticism applies to all the texts in the services package, which all follow the same logic: under the guise of revising procedural aspects, whether on proportionality or on notifications or on the introduction of the professional card for services, the aim is to deprive the member states of the possibility of introducing rules for regulated professions, rules which, it should be recalled, exist only because they correspond to compelling reasons of general interest as important as the health of europeans, the safety of consumers or the protection of the environment. fortunately, the work carried out by parliament has made it possible to limit or even eliminate the deregulatory aims of this text, in particular by recognising the specific nature of the health professions or by recalling the primacy of sectoral rules and the principle of lex specialis, which must continue to apply. once again, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the negotiating team, in particular our fictitious rapporteur, sergio cofferati.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, commissioner, within the council, the differences between member states are such that the cotonou agreement could expire in 2020 without a new text having been negotiated. the ongoing negotiations for the post-cotonou period are symptomatic of the impasse in the european union. article 218 tfeu is very clear on the procedure for negotiating agreements. i quote: 'the council shall act unanimously for association agreements'. that is why, in the council, hungary blocked the negotiating mandate on 22 may last because of a disagreement on the migration issue. then, on 24 may, several member states opposed the compromise text, which would have removed the opposition of hungary. let us open our eyes, ladies and gentlemen, and understand that it is also because the european treaties can only be amended by unanimity, in accordance with article 48 of the teu, that we are defending frexit so that our country can act freely.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our resolution is very positive about interparliamentary cooperation and is aimed at this cooperation. but we are talking trash about aid policies involving civil society, good governance, fighting corruption forgetting how to make african states actors of their development, as was done in china, singapore and in the past in our countries. by budgetising the edf, we are removing the intergovernmental character which is essential for efficiency and good cooperation in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. what is more serious, the spirit of lomé, which was based on co-development, which called for preferential agreements for the purchase of raw materials, which called for a certain degree of protectionism to develop employment and activity on the spot, this spirit, already partly abandoned with the cotonou agreements, we forgot and even conditioned our aid on the opening of markets; we are destroying the local african economy.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, recently there have been voices in the netherlands, the champion of happy globalisation, against the supremacy of english in higher education. a late wake-up call at a time when for the average international student, the days are punctuated by english lessons and skype conversations in their mother tongue. the barcelona objectives of mastering two foreign languages as a guarantee of diversity will have long since passed away, so from bologna to maastricht, globish reigns supreme. it is no wonder that the european institutions themselves maintain a permanent double discourse between praise of multilingualism and a hegemony of english disproportionate to its demographic weight in the aftermath of brexit. behind the question of principle is the question of the consideration accorded to nations such as france, a founding state and net contributor, while the renewal of patriotism is testing the seeds of a springtime for the peoples of europe. the answer to this question not only determines the legitimacy of europe but also its survival.
in writing. in the village square, the last café closed a few months ago, the buralista, heated by the rise of tobacco and crime, is about to pack. as for the cinema, which depends on municipal subsidies that will soon run out, it is hard to say that its films screened with a delay of several weeks struggle to drain the crowds. this is the fate of so many rural french communes, where the poverty of cultural offerings is a reflection of dramatic desertification, which sees 7,000 cafes closing down a year and the commercial vacancy rate reaching 10%. far from being an accessory, access to culture determines the prospects of these cities, because why would a company invest in them tomorrow if it cannot offer its employees the living environment they want? in view of the persistence of 'white zones', digitalisation alone will not be sufficient. but the great tradition of a truly popular and travelling theatre reminds us that these territories are not doomed to oblivion and that, in the face of their agony, determined national action is urgent and necessary.
the agenda calls for the debate on the question with request for an oral reply to the commission on the fight against corruption, tabled by ms ingeborg gräßle, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control (o-000021/2018 - b8-0024/2018) (2018/2735 ((rsp)).
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on five motions for resolutions on russia (2018/2754 ((rsp))
author. mr president, we are again discussing bahrain. since 2011 and the crushing of popular protests with the help of saudi and emirati armies, the country has been sinking deeper into repression and a growing denial of human rights. human rights defenders are the first victims, often arrested and sentenced on the basis of confessions obtained under torture. many are banned from travelling, many are stripped of their nationality and more and more civil cases are being tried in military courts. the un and the major ngos also denounce the harassment of the shia population, which constitutes, let us remember, the majority of the population. accused of course, as others here accuse us of playing into the hands of our great neighbour iran. the fight against terrorism has a good back and the national security agency has almost free hands to conduct arrests and interrogations in this context. after seven years of moratorium, executions have indeed resumed and death sentences are increasing. nabil rajab became a symbol of this struggle for human rights. he was due to be released this month after serving another two years in appalling prison conditions, but has now been sentenced to an additional five years in prison. commissioner, i would like to speak for adam, his 21-year-old son, who is concerned about his father's deteriorating health and would like one of our ambassadors to visit him. i ask you to speak for this demand. danish-bahraini citizen abdulhadi al-khawaja has also been detained since april 2011, sentenced to life in prison for peaceful activities, and blogger abduljalil al-singace, among many others. all this in itself would already bode ill for the next elections announced for next october, as the two main opposition parties have been dissolved, al wefaq, the main shiite party, and waad, the secular party. but their members have just been banned from running for office, like any citizen convicted of crimes. how can you have business dealings and sell weapons and surveillance equipment to a country like this?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the case of nabil rajab in bahrain is of course of concern to us. if we support the minorities who are victims of discrimination and persecution, we think first of all of the christian populations in the middle east, whose presence, which predates islam by a long time, is being eradicated by the islamist project. few people here have a conscience against this major drama. in bahrain, it is not a minority but the majority of the shia population who are discriminated against by a sunni emirate. the european union, which supports countries as bad as qatar or saudi arabia, which mistreats its shia minority, is not - i think - in a position to intervene on this issue, as on many others. it is by taking a balanced position, without choosing riyadh over tehran or even the other way around, that the european countries could play a mediating role. but it is first and foremost by regaining each of its diplomatic sovereignty that the european nations will regain a policy that is in line with their interests. they could therefore intervene in a much more credible way in matters such as those discussed here.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, as we can see, the subject of road freight transport is a highly sensitive one on which the committee on employment and social affairs and the committee on transport and tourism have expressed their views in this parliament. it is clear that today the two sides have expressed very different views on these three issues. for obvious practical reasons, we believe that it is high time and of the utmost importance that the plenary, that is to say all of you, should be able to give its opinion on all these matters, but also on the question of cabotage. we need to adopt a position which reflects the full diversity of our assembly on the social reform of road haulage and in particular on the cabotage issue. i therefore ask you to stay out of the fray and vote against this mandate and to give our assembly the opportunity to take a decision at the next plenary in july.
mr president, our request is to ask for a precise assessment of the compliance not only with our values but also with european law of cooperation with the israeli government in the framework of the horizon 2020 programme. the united nations committee against torture has denounced the use by israel of torture and illegal and abusive technologies during interrogations by israeli police and prison staff; the israeli constitutional court had also raised this question. the lawtrain project, which has received more than €5 million in eu funding, involves the israeli ministry of public security, which manages prisons and decides on entry and exit. this project aims to improve police interrogation techniques. this puts us in a position where we can either be illegal or be an intolerable accomplice. this is the analysis of the portuguese ministry and the belgian university of leuven, which withdrew from the project. we must now break the dark-light veil that hides what is civil and what is military in research, when it is known that so-called civil applications include areas related to security, national police, border guards, cyber security or security at airports. the role of several israeli companies that benefit from the funding, such as mellanox, which is experimenting with the occupation, elbit systems, one of israel's largest arms factories manufacturing banned cluster bombs, or israteam, a customer of the israeli army, needs to be clarified. on the other hand, the union's financial regulation requires candidates to be excluded from all european funding i quote if it has been established by a final judgment or a final administrative decision that the economic operator has committed serious professional misconduct, in breach of the applicable laws or regulations or the ethical standards of the profession to which he belongs; i refer here to article 106 (1). the israeli ministry of public security, which controls the prisons, is deporting and detaining palestinian prisoners in israeli territory, thus outside the occupied palestinian territories, in violation of article 76 of the fourth geneva convention, which israel ratified in 1951. we ask that the european commission assess the serious and repeated violations by the israeli ministry of security of the provisions of article 106 of the eu financial regulation, the international convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, the statute of the international criminal court, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the fourth geneva convention, before proceeding with this project. in view of the conditions of detention of palestinian prisoners, the occupation of palestine, the destruction of humanitarian and educational infrastructures financed by the european union, and the non-compliance with un resolutions, the commission must decide to suspend all our partnership projects. i am awaiting a reply from the commission in this respect.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, if we were to question israel's participation in the horizon 2020 programme, we would be making three mistakes. a crime against science: israel, a small country, the only democracy in the region, has managed to develop brilliantly in a hostile environment. as technology magnate elon musk recently said, israel has moved beyond the 'start-up nation' stage to become a true technological powerhouse on par with the united states. this will to survive, to innovate and to take control of its destiny is an example for europeans, for our states and an opportunity for our researchers and our companies. would we want to deprive them of that by ideology? you don't stop scientific progress with good, dark feelings. this obscurantism which leads us to refuse scientific cooperation which is in our own interests. is it because israel is an example of successful technologies and civil-military synergies? given that 80% of civil innovations come from defence - the rds system, station search, the internet, abs - i could name a whole host of technologies that come from defence alone. we would also be committing a peace-breaking offense. by isolating israel and adopting the discourse of palestinian radicals, we will not be serving peace. we would go along with sectarian palestinian interests and push them to their extremes. do we have the same scruples when it comes to the funds allocated by the european union to the palestinian authority, which are also used, it must be said, to make bombs and missiles against israel? how can we draw parallels between israel and apartheid south africa? we would be committing a third offence against the member states. do i have to remind you that it is not for europe to tell us with whom the states should cooperate, with what projects? europe would once again leave its role as european coordinator and take on responsibilities that it does not have, that do not belong to it. the union is too often a coup d'état to weaken the member states. furthermore, by playing with the israeli-palestinian conflict, we risk fanning the flames in the suburbs of our member states with high muslim immigration, where anti-zionism is often the mask of anti-semitism and hatred in our host countries. is it because israel is a model nation state so honored in this chamber that we allow ourselves to lecture it? our irresponsibility would lead europe to diplomatic and technological isolation. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". i am of course very much in favour of this cooperation, not only with the member states of the european union but also with the union as such. i believe that the programme which the union has carried out in the framework research agreement which was launched in 1996 has been fruitful for both sides, since, if i read my notes correctly, israel has invested eur 1.3 billion and received eur 1.7 billion as a result.
mr president, my point of order is based on rule 24, rule 25 (3) and (13) and rule 28 concerning the powers of the quaestors of the bureau of the parliament and the procedure to be followed. for the past 18 months, three quarters of my allowance has been cut by 300,000 euros. this is a very large sum which is supposed to represent the salaries and social security contributions of one of my assistants, who i assure you worked in full accordance with his status. the decision was taken by the secretary-general without even having been heard, whereas the measures implementing the staff regulations, article 68 (2), provide: 'any decision on recovery shall be taken ... after the member concerned has been heard'. the european charter of fundamental rights, article 41 (1) and (2), states that 'everyone has the right to have his or her affairs handled fairly', which includes, inter alia, the right of any person 'to be heard before any individual measure which would affect him or her adversely is taken against him or her'. article 6 of the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is in the same vein. the charter for good administration, which we voted for, makes this explicitly clear. i am speaking to my colleagues and to you. regardless of the political differences between us, is it decent to allow such a situation to continue in an administration whose arbitrariness has been gradually developing over the last 30 years at the expense of the rights of members of parliament, without the quaestors and the bureau doing anything about it? is it appropriate for a member to be in my position, which is also that of many people in these benches, without the secretary-general, as a genuine shooter, or the bodies of this parliament, being able to hear him?
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the turkish elections on 24 june were a triumph for erdoğan, who was re-elected president with 53% of the vote. erdoğan will therefore fully benefit from the constitutional revision that transforms the turkish parliamentary system into a presidential regime. it is clear that he will use this opportunity to continue the violations of human rights which affect whole sections of the turkish population, including journalists and academics. he will also use it to increase tensions with the united states and the western world and to increase his islamist proselytism. in this situation, we cannot simply hope, as the commission has done, that turkey will remain a committed partner. the european parliament must consider the union's attitude towards turkey, and in particular the question of its possible accession. our credibility is at stake. the enf group therefore calls for a statement by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy on the situation in turkey to be added to the agenda for tuesday afternoon.
mr president, i wish to denounce the eccentricities of the administration, the eccentricities and the illegal practices. i am talking about the requisition of interpreters in this institution! you are aware that it is contrary to all international labour standards. i don't understand why in this institution, we can afford to sit on the right! so i ask you, mr president, to take this matter in hand and give back the right of interpreters to strike if they wish! (applause) i would like to thank
i'm the reporter. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of this regulation tomorrow is a decisive step for the europe of defence. this is the first community programme in the defence industry. we've been going back and forth on this. what is possible today was unthinkable just a few years ago. i would therefore like to thank the european commission and you, mrs bieńkowska, in particular, for your help throughout this legislative process. your commitment to effective european defence has been decisive. the bulgarian presidency also played its full part in bringing the negotiations to a successful conclusion within the agreed time-limits. finally, i would like to thank my two colleagues, the rapporteurs from the afet, sede and budg committees, mr paşcu and mr gonzález pons, and the non-existent rapporteurs from the itre committee, with whom we have had very productive cooperation. we have reached a solid text to implement this programme as of january 2019. parliament was consulted, although this is an area in which the member states are not used to having a co-legislator. from the outset, i have advocated a truly european approach to this programme, the only way to move its implementation forward quickly and to reap the full benefits at european level. this new programme addresses three challenges for the european union: budgetary efficiency, competitiveness and strategic autonomy. budgetary efficiency, firstly, because it is no longer possible to continue developing so many different defence technologies and products in europe without cooperation and organisation. member states should be encouraged to invest together in future technologies and avoid duplication, based on their capacity priorities. at least three companies from three member states will be required to submit an action. this is pragmatism. it is necessary to build on existing projects while encouraging new cooperation. it is particularly urgent to have identical specifications between member states to avoid any delay or additional cost. competitiveness is the next, because the european union must remain at the forefront to keep innovative industries on its territory and the thousands of jobs that depend on them. our defence industry needs more europe to provide cheaper, more reliable, more independent technology and thus to showcase its technological wealth. excellence must be the basis for the selection of companies in this programme, whether large groups, medium-sized enterprises or smes. we have also paid particular attention to smes, which have a capacity for innovation and adaptation that is very useful in this sector. at least 10% of the budget should be earmarked for them. strategic autonomy at last. it is crucial to guarantee the freedom of action of the european union in the world and essential to deal with the current instability of the international context. with this programme, a new dynamic is being set up to encourage member states to acquire the technologies and products financed by community money. what autonomy do we have if we continue to buy hyperconnected products from third countries? everyone must take responsibility for instilling a spirit of independence in the european union in this area. we have also been able to reserve financing for companies established in the european union with very limited exceptions for those that would not be controlled by europeans. it is crucial to avoid the leakage of our technological know-how. the role of our parliament has been decisive in this respect. to succeed in this programme, member states and industry must bring their best projects to the european level. this is essential if this programme is to create a real leverage effect for defence investment in europe. the new european defence fund for the period after 2020 already offers a perspective for this new defence industrial policy. it is an ambitious course that has been set. my dear colleagues, our citizens are asking the european union to protect them against the new threats. this programme is a concrete way of responding to them responsibly. that is why i ask you to support this interinstitutional agreement in the vote tomorrow.
the s&d group, on behalf of the group of the european people's party, has expressed its support for the report and the commission's proposal. the fact has been mentioned that there is not enough cooperation in the european defence industrial sector. at the same time, it is unfortunate that many member states are purchasing from non-european suppliers, as is illustrated by the example of belgian fighter planes which are american. the aim is therefore to encourage joint initiatives, initially at the research and development stage, in order to increase competitiveness and to better match future equipment projects to european needs, with the hope that member states will ultimately be encouraged to buy 'made in europe' equipment. while i'm not a militaristic zealot, as everyone knows, i share this approach. indeed, to reject this programme is to maintain the status quo, and the status quo will not have the effect of constraining the military-industrial complex, but on the contrary will simply leave it the latitude it currently has, just as it will leave the field open to certain member states to continue to buy non-european. i would like to recall some of the factual elements mentioned by mrs grossetête: regarding the eligibility criteria three companies from at least three member states, the specific inclusion of medium-sized companies to cover the whole of european geography, derogations for non-european entities with sites in the territory of the union, via a compartmentalisation , the balance point has been found. moreover, it is included almost as it is in the proposal for the european defence fund. however, it was appreciated that the time was given to evaluate the mechanism in order to be able to attest to its soundness. the new article 7 on ethics in the proposed european defence fund fills a gap, but will need to be strengthened. in conclusion, we will have to vote on the joint declaration on the financing of this programme, and i regret that parliament's position, which called for fresh money for this new priority, was not heard. however, i would like to warn the council and the commission in the context of the future european fund. for the next programming period, the programmes that are being cut will require considerable resources, so it will no longer be possible to proceed by budgetary cavalry. if europe is to be present on all fronts, it will need a much more ambitious multiannual financial framework. i shall therefore naturally vote for mrs grossetête's report.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to begin by thanking mrs grossetête for her excellent work and the cooperation we have had with her. it is good news that we are seeing this european programme for industrial development in the field of defence. together, parliament and member states are sending a strong message about the importance of this programme by finding a solid and swift agreement. the need to pool our defence needs at union level has given rise to bilateral and multilateral initiatives, such as the announcements of franco-german industrial collaboration, the permanent structural cooperation at 25 or, most recently, the european intervention initiative at 9. but, while supporting these initiatives, we think it is more effective to move, like this programme, towards a common framework at community level. everything was said about the content of this programme and the agreement we had, both on its funding, its model of deployment and also on the fact that i insisted that the management be centralised. we must realize that there is no power without the military-industrial complex. i know it's a big word, but it's a word that actually needs to be spoken. when you look at our transatlantic neighbors china and russia, you see that their entire industry and their space, aerospace and digital technology exists, thrives and competes with us through the transfer of military to civilian. this complex is the basis of a military power but, thanks to its civilian benefits, it is also the pillar of economic development. it is high time that europe had one, and this programme is one of the most interesting to create a real military-industrial complex. i know that the basis of our deliberations is industrial and we hope that this small industrial seed will give us a solid tree towards european defence. it is now 68 years since the french national assembly voted against the european defence community. things have changed a lot since then. the need is growing, and the danger is pressing. it is therefore time that we can develop a genuine community defence policy for our fellow citizens in europe on the basis of this and the next instruments. this first step is encouraging and we will support it.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the objective of promoting the development and excellence of the european defence industry is a positive one, as is that of encouraging member states to buy equipment from eu countries rather than from third countries. unfortunately, your objective is not to organise the interoperability of the armies of sovereign european nations but to move towards a european defence, which mr juncker described as inevitable. the programme you propose, seeking to reduce the number of weapons systems in europe, is designed to make our armies and defence industries interdependent at the expense of their autonomy. your projects are contrary to national sovereignty and independence, which in the field of defence are not negotiable. the programme is also presented as a two-year test of what the future industrial policy of the european union in the field of defence could be. it is clear that it will not play this role, since you intend to set up the european defence fund, without having yet been able to draw the consequences of this first programme. we also regret that the didp programme allows for the financing by european funds of non-european defence industries based on our soil and not exclusively european companies. despite your ambitions, you can't even defend our interests. the submission of this programme to the yoke of nato is also proof of this.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i would like to thank my colleagues who have spoken. i would like to say that this programme, of course, is not about financing the war. what we want is to ensure the protection of our fellow citizens in a world which is particularly unstable and where there are many threats. how can we explain to our fellow citizens that we do not want to do anything to try to coordinate the efforts of the member states in the field of the arms industry? yes, we need the european union to be strategically autonomous, and i want the words of us president donald trump to prove it, who asked the european union to ensure its own security and defence. so yes, this program is designed to ensure peace, not to wage war, but to ensure the peace and security of our fellow citizens. so let's stop caricaturing this programme, it's an industrial programme for innovation and competitiveness. it is not about a european army, it is about equipping the european union with the most advanced technologies, especially for cybersecurity. are you going to tell our fellow citizens that you don't want to ensure their safety? i'm going to sign up for a fake. this programme is an important step forward in the framework of the europe of defence.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i am not a backward farmer, i am not opposed to the modernisation of techniques, i am not opposed to the use of technology to improve our profession, and i am not opposed to the collection of data to improve the efficiency of a policy, in this case the common agricultural policy (cap), but what is contained in this text seems to me frankly extremely worrying. the union, the champion of failure in agricultural policy, makes us believe that the cap is not working because of a lack of statistics. what a nerve! so, under the pretext of improving a flawed policy, the commission is here, in a relaxed manner, instituting a gigantic collection of personal and professional data. it's all there. the main factors are: sex, age, commercial structure of the farms, good ecological practices and good cultivation methods, etc. what you call rationalization, i call surveillance policy. i therefore have no intention of voting for a text which is really intended to spy on farmers.
mr president, i would first like to thank and congratulate maria gabriella zoanǎ for the quality of her work, which was not easy, as she took over from mrs dǎncilǎ on this report which is essential for the future of agriculture. we now know that statistics are an integral part of our thinking on the continuation of the common agricultural policy, but i would like to draw the attention of all of us here to the fact that statistics do not exempt us from adopting a forward-looking view when defining the common agricultural policy. i believe that we cannot rely exclusively on statistics to build the projection, we also need to put into perspective political visions that integrate the elements of common agricultural activity. i would also like to say that we must measure the complexity of statistics, not overburden the administration with data collection and rely on modern tools. finally, i would like to express my regret that the equine sector has not been recognised in these statistics and i can only regret that.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the draft report is full of goodwill. the suffering of many indigenous peoples who lose their identity, their history, their territory by being subjected to external or internal economic interests is a real violation of human rights and even a crime. but the imposition of unilateral binding standards applying only to european companies will probably play into the hands of our international competitors, namely china and the united states. in addition, external interference between national government and local communities could be applied without insight. how can relations between the metropolis of paris and the french overseas be judged from brussels, for example? the report is very timid about unbridled free trade, where the law of the market often allows the destruction of indigenous communities. it is this economic law of the market society which authorises the law of the strongest. it's not talked about enough.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 3 july 2018.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by charles goerens, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on an external union strategy to combat early and forced marriages and next steps (2017/2275 (ini)) (a8-0187/2018).
madam president, child marriage is obviously a violation of human rights. the question is how europe can help to remedy this. perhaps we should be asking ourselves about our own foreign policy. i am very sorry to note that in our various agreements there are never, or very rarely, any chapters that emphasize equality between women and men, the rights of the child, etc. but i can assure you that here, at our last session under the partnership agreement with chile, we finally, for the first time, included a chapter on equality between men and women. it is by making this type of conditionality more widespread that europe can help to put an end to it. the problem will not be eradicated overnight, but this is the way to do it. that's the way to go.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday, 4 july 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by arne lietz and jo leinen, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs and the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on climate diplomacy (2017/2272(ini) (a8-0221/2018).
madam president, do not count on me to support yet another strengthening of the commission's prerogatives on this subject. the fact is that our planet is in such a bad way is due not only to the intensification of flows, but also to the free trade agreements defended by the european union and to agricultural productivism, which is engraved in the marble of the european treaties. it also calls on the union and its member states to be active partners at international level, but it also wants the european union to speak with one voice. but what are states for? what, to be an extra? so no, i do not want to give the commission an active role for cop 24, or to see it raise the level of ambition of the paris agreement. no, i am not committing the union to an international role in carbon markets. and finally, no, i do not want any additional expenditure within the european external action service and the commission.
member of the commission. – madam president, the importance of cities and their recognition as key players in effectively implementing european union policies is a challenge at eu level. as you know, all cities are a place where many of europe’s challenges, such as dealing with high unemployment, promoting social integration, fighting against climate change, and reducing air pollution or congestion, are specifically acute and must be dealt with. cities are at the same time places of great opportunities to boost growth, create jobs and enhance productivity for the benefit of all european union citizens. local authorities are often the closest contact point for citizens as 70% of our population live in urban areas, as ms šojdrová has just stressed, and even more will live there in the future. therefore, working with them for cities can only bring the european union closer to its citizens. therefore, the commission welcomes parliament’s resolution as cities’ challenges and opportunities are part of most of the european union’s actions. without forgetting the role of the committee of the regions, the commission recognises the need to strengthen the role of cities in shaping future european union policies. the european union’s regional and urban policy aims to improve territorial cohesion and support urban development in the european union. the commission often expresses the need for more systematic and structured dialogues with representatives of local and regional governments at an earlier stage in policymaking, but also to develop some multilateral governance mechanisms for better policymaking and implementation. in this respect, the urban agenda for the european union is an important milestone towards reinforcement of the urban dimension in all the european union’s relevant policies. two years after the pact of amsterdam setting up the urban agenda for the european union, much has already been achieved. a more coherent and coordinated approach on urban issues within the commission is taking place. the implementation of the urban agenda for the european union is ongoing, with 12 thematic partnerships successfully established, mobilising more than 84 cities, while key new partnerships on security in public spaces and on culture and cultural heritage are to come and three action plans have already been finalised. a one-stop shop for cities pulls together all european union information for cities and urbis has been set up under the european investment advisory hub to support the preparation of urban investment projects. in addition, globally the urban agenda for the european union is meant to become the european union contribution to the united nations’ new urban agenda, the habitat iii conference, and the sustainable development goals. the recent commission proposal for the next multiannual financial framework and post—2020 funds regulation confronts this by dedicating one of the policy objectives for investments specifically to be close to citizens. and cities will benefit from a specific earmarking of 6% of the european regional development fund and will be empowered to select projects and manage the funds themselves. within the common provisions on the european regional development fund regulation, the commission also proposes to create a unique european urban initiative. this initiative will provide a coherent offer of services for cities in terms of capacity-building, innovation and knowledge. it will also enable cities to play a further role in the european union policymaking process by supporting the urban agenda for the european union.
i'm the reporter. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, in my report on 3d printing i have taken up most of the concerns raised by my colleagues at our various meetings in the committee on legal affairs. 3d printing raises specific legal, ethical, health and safety issues. the issues are diverse and complex, but i have chosen to focus my report on two main areas: intellectual property law and civil liability issues, particularly in the case of the production of defective products. as regards civil liability in the event of defective or even dangerous products, the multiplicity of actors involved in the production chain could lead us to consider new provisions to cover and compensate consumers in the best possible way in the event of damage. safety issues are also paramount, particularly in the production of spare parts for the automotive, household appliances, aircraft and even firearms sectors. we have also dealt with the medical field, the production of prosthetic limbs and the reproduction of organs. this raises real ethical issues, such as equal access to health, and it is a health issue. i will also say a word about the economic and environmental benefits that 3d printing could bring in the future. i am thinking in particular of production and storage costs which will actually be reduced. the second text on which this report is based concerns intellectual property rights which can be undermined by 3d printing if the process is not properly managed. 3d printing may facilitate counterfeiting, not only by individuals who may benefit from the private copying exception, but also by organised networks making profits from the sale of counterfeit products. to this end, it seems to me essential to prevent counterfeiting that a legal 3d printing offer develops so that the individual who wishes to print a work can do so without breaking the law and ensuring fair remuneration for the author. finally, and briefly, there is a subject which has particularly interested me, and this is because of my former profession as an auctioneer, and that is the revolution that is coming in the field of graphic arts. tomorrow, everyone will have reproduction software or 3d printers that will allow them to reproduce the greatest masterpieces of painting and sculpture in a perfect way. the achievement of perfection in the field of reproduction is just a matter of time. so, unless we put a policeman behind each work, the question that arises is obviously that of the production of works of art, that of copyright and that of copyright. i ask myself: what will an original work mean in the future if the copy is exactly the same as the original? why is the original worth more than the copy? how can we protect ourselves from falsehoods? as you can see, colleagues, it is essential to be able to answer these questions by allowing greater traceability in the three-dimensional works produced. however, the point is not to curb innovation by law, by legislating more and more and by accumulating legislation, but rather to anticipate and see to what extent existing rules will have to be adapted or supplemented. in conclusion, we have worked on this report in a genuine spirit of collaboration with my colleagues from the various political groups in the legal affairs committee. i would also like to point out that it was voted unanimously. i was very happy. this report respects our desire to regulate, without legally restricting, this evolving technology, which will be beneficial to our society and economy in the medium to long term.
madam president, this report clearly demonstrates the challenges and potential of three-dimensional printing, particularly for our industries, and the possibilities for relocating activities. issues relating to intellectual property and civil liability are also clearly identified. we must pay particular attention to the development of this technology in the field of security (manufacture of weapons and explosives). we will also need to be vigilant about the use of 3d printing in the medical field, including from an ethical and equal access point of view. finally, and i echo the recommendation of the rapporteur and colleague, joëlle bergeron, we must accompany this innovation by law, without the law becoming a brake or an excessive constraint on this promising technology.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, mr prime minister, mr president of the commission, on behalf of the socialist group, i thank you and congratulate you on this six-month presidency which has seen a great deal of progress in many areas of our institutions. i believe that the work done on the western balkans is considerable and you have said so and president juncker has said so, on the question of albania and macedonia, the agreements are there. i congratulate you on the work of dialogue, the method, the energy and the way you have given a new impetus to all these areas. it has also been said, and i will not repeat it, that you proposed digital technology as a strategic priority and i believe that today, thanks also to your commissioner, we can say that things have advanced considerably at union level. our common history will remember that your work has contributed to the advancement of this major subject in favour of the balanced development of the territories. there are some points i would like to highlight, mainly and in particular the political agreement reached in the trilogue on 20 june under your presidency on the draft regulation on eu governance on energy and climate policies which must enable the union's energy and climate objectives in europe to be achieved by 2030 with a 40% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, a minimum share of renewable energy of 32% in the union's energy mix and a target of 32.5% energy savings. these challenges and objectives are important, but they are not enough if we are to collectively meet the objectives of cop 21 and perhaps the power cut we suffered here at the beginning of the session is a reminder of this. we must always go further in energy if we are to achieve our collective objectives. this is a considerable amount of work and i wanted to thank you publicly here. i would also like to congratulate you on the fact that during your presidency - and i know that this particularly affects your commissioner - you were able to obtain a majority in the council to ban the three neonicotinoids which kill bees. this is a major biodiversity issue. we failed on glyphosate, whereas you won on neonicotinoids, and i think the europeans are grateful to you for that today. again, we need to go further into biodiversity. two things, however, concern me. first, on the cfp - and this was not part of your mandate - it is worrying that you have not succeeded in convincing the member states of the need to devote an ambitious budget to the european project in the making. today we must emphasize the need to give the union a strategy and a major role at international level. finally, i would like to stress the limitations of the immigration council of 28 and 29 june. the decision that was taken there, although difficult, was a minor one. so this is a small regret for this presidency.
madam president, mr chancellor, excuse me for returning to your slogan of a 'europe that protects' because it is indeed at the heart of our discussions. if it is indeed a question of protecting european citizens from tax fraud and evasion in order to ensure the social pillar of the european union, i agree with your view of protection. if it is to protect european workers from the financialisation of our european economy, then i am also in favour of this protection model. if it is to strengthen resources at the union's external borders, i also agree with you. but if this is to maintain the confusion between the right of asylum, the right of refugees and the security of european citizens, then i do not agree with you. at no time, chancellor, will the barbed wire ever have blocked the air. make our position for dublin reform concrete and you will collectively move the european union forward. on the bridges you are building with africa, i fear there is also confusion between bridges and walls. but if it is bridges, we need additional means. i would now like to ask you about your vision of the multiannual financial framework. will you allow the contribution of the member states to exceed 1,114% of the budget in order to finally have an ambitious european policy that is up to the challenge of our european and international challenges?
in writing. we are living in a unique time with the emergence, throughout europe and the world, of those who advocate exclusion and hatred. the european union, and a fortiori its council, must show that there is no place here for far-right ideas. but now the state that presides over this council has allied itself with a far-right party, offering them the crucial ministries of the interior and foreign affairs. how can we accept it? this is contrary to the values of europe, to our treaties and to our humanistic principles. i am already observing with concern the effect of such a presidency, starting with asylum. our dublin proposal is simply being dropped - which shows a total disregard for our work - and replaced by security measures at the external borders: the well-named 'axis' with the italian and german ministers. do you think this is flattering public opinion? you are wrong, the citizens want lasting solutions and you are not solving anything! i am also concerned about your positions on social issues: how will you work on the texts of the mobility package we are voting on tomorrow? will you defend workers' rights and fair competition in this sector?
mr president, indigenous peoples are ahead of us in the search for harmony with nature. we have much to learn from these peoples, but this cannot be done without restoring their rights, since these peoples, in all parts of the world, are dominated by a capitalist and productivist model that threatens their very existence. france, which has indigenous peoples in its midst, must take up this challenge and ratify the ilo convention and, following the example of the earth summit held in rio in 1992, take the initiative of a world conference to launch a foundational process of international governance for the respect of the rights of indigenous peoples. it's a matter of civilization.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, now, in migration matters, it is no longer the commission that decides, it is the nations that take the lead. mr macron and mrs merkel are isolated, because their policy of welcoming illegal immigrants is now very clearly rejected by the people. the paris-berlin-brussels axis is over. now it is the rulers of rome, vienna and budapest who give the order. this is the conclusion to be drawn from the last european summit. the compromise which was achieved with great difficulty on thursday night remains a compromise. but it clearly says that, from now on, i quote: 'all vessels operating in the mediterranean must respect the applicable laws and not obstruct the operations of the libyan coastguard'. this is the great advance that we owe to matteo salvini's determined action against the ngos which are very often the accomplices of the mafias and smugglers. the text also provides for the end of compulsory quotas and stresses the need to strengthen external borders, which is a requirement of the austrian presidency. this is a defeat for the brussels commissioners and for the macron-merkel couple. however, there have been no truly effective measures at european level so far, only courageous national responses. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the internal borders are not crossed by the member states.
the question is "blue cardboard". how can we say that we let people die in the mediterranean under the pretext that we treat them in europe? what are we supposed to do? stop public health care, stop health care for our fellow citizens? and what do we do? we make the decision to let all africans die, who only think about one thing, to go and seek a little life and democracy. but what is this reasoning? this is the reasoning behind the systematic abandonment of social policy in our european countries, which is already protecting us. let's start with that.
madam president, mr tusk, the last european council, which was supposed to be crucial, is in fact an empty shell. this demonstrates once again the inefficiency of the decision-making process of the european union. on the migration problem, no european solution has been found, contrary to what mrs merkel and mr macron claim. in view of the serious risk of migration to europe, the political conclusions adopted are laborious, ridiculous and ineffective. as for the famous transit centres and landing platforms, migrants will avoid them. almost all migrants are actually economic illegal immigrants who are not true refugees. the only effective solution is the nation with its borders and customs. the reform of the economic governance of the euro area is clearly a failure. european citizens can only be pleased to have escaped the reinforcement of the german-inspired prison federalism served by mr macron. it is now states like italy, austria and hungary that are re-orienting european policies. the great winner of this summit is the italian president of the council, mr conte, who has shown his courage and determination to ensure that the will of the italian people is respected.
the commission has already taken action on this. in your pro-immigration diatribe, you speak for yourself and for the european parliament, but the majority of european citizens today no longer want immigration because they are suffering in terms of their purchasing power and their jobs. what are you going to tell them in 2019?
madam president, mr tusk, you said that having a budget support mechanism for the resolution fund was a great step forward. agree with president juncker that we cannot talk about progress on a point on which there has been political agreement in principle for so long. the european council should have said what conditions this safety net will be able to function under. in the case of bank resolution, no one can imagine that national parliaments will have to be consulted. so the governance of the european stability mechanism will have to be changed, and you are completely silent on this. you are also silent about this object which ends up being unidentified, namely this euro zone budget, this stability function which everyone recognizes as indispensable to deal with the next possible euro zone crises. the european council has postponed this issue, which is a serious mistake.
mr president, on migration issues the council has not come up with any solution, let alone a european solution. everything that is said is based on voluntary, bilateral and externalisation. it is easy to reach agreement when none of the proposed measures is binding, except that it does not work. for example, there is agreement to set up closed centres within the union, but no country is willing to host them. there is agreement on setting up landing platforms in third countries without even informing them. as a result, nobody wants them and nothing is going on. well, i guess so. we endorse the externalisation of our migration policy by delegating our responsibilities to territories that sometimes treat migrants like slaves. but there are solutions. they are not miraculous, but they could save lives and break the business model of smugglers. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. however, it seems that the member states have decided otherwise and have opted for populism and hysteria over efficiency and rationality.
for the greens/efa group mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for some time now we have been drowning in fake news, you know, fake information spread on the internet. some of us here even take turns. what do they tell us about the social reform of road transport? they tell us: "we're going to protect the workers. how did you do that? it is quite simple: by extending their working time and dividing their rest time. is this what you call "protecting employees"? first fake news. they say better. they want to protect workers by cutting back on the few social rights that have been won at european level, such as the posting of workers. fake news number two. then they tell us: "we will protect the working conditions of the employees". you know how? by making them sleep in their cabins, which is contrary to the opinion of the court of justice. my dear colleagues, if you care so much about rest in the workplace, set an example. every night you spend in brussels or strasbourg, sleep in your office because we meps also have benches available. the truth is that some people would like to make truck drivers second-class employees. worse, modern slaves in an open european market bar, with no rules or laws. it is not just a danger for millions of road transport workers in europe, it is a danger for all of us, because a tired driver is a public danger on the road, putting lives at risk. finally, i should like to warn you, ladies and gentlemen, that your approach is politically dangerous, because the response of the people to the social jungle is anger. so tomorrow we will have to choose between a europe that divides and a europe that protects. now the ball is in your court.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate the campaign of the road workers' unions, who have been warning us for months about their working conditions, about the hard work, about exploitation, because 32 degrees on the weimar motorway in cabins without air conditioning is not social, it is exploitation. this vote is important because it is about choosing the model we want for road transport. either we reinforce the choice of social dumping, which is the logic of the texts proposed to us, and this leads to the exclusion of the vast majority of road hauliers from the status of posted workers, to longer working hours, to more precariousness, or we make the choice of progress and then it is a matter of fighting against abuses, of securing routes in the face of predatory competition, or of deciding to move towards an ambitious model for european road transport. we want the principle of 'equal work, equal pay' to be respected, with the secondment on the first day, the prohibition of rest in the cabin and the strengthening of road checks. i call on everyone to take responsibility and to defend the amendments of the employment committee and those tabled by my group on posting, working time and cabotage.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the mobility package reveals the nature of the brussels institutions, hypocrites, blinded by the ideology of the single market and subject above all to profit, to the detriment of the workers of the union. the proud pro-european elites, confident of the triumph of their consumerist babylon, did not want to wait for the economic and social convergence between the advanced economies and those countries which had been suffering from 45 years of socialism. the result is the establishment of a struggle between the workers of the east and those of the west. unemployed in the west, slaves in the west: this is the choice imposed by the union. yes, slaves, because for 400 euros a month, who here would do the work of these drivers travelling around europe for the benefit of large financialised transport groups? hypocrites, because when the european commission claims to protect drivers, it degrades their working conditions, even at the expense of road safety, because when the commission claims to fight against the abuses of cabotage in western europe, which is also akin to entrepreneurial piracy, it proposes to liberalize it within 5 days. as for the already largely insufficient application of the posted worker status, you want it to concern as few workers as possible, as little as possible and, to top it all off, with the support of a rapporteur who claims to be a radical leftist. libertarian liberalism tinged with good feelings is poison. diametrically opposed to these positions, which had been further aggravated by the committee on transport, our group in the european left proposed amendments to put an end to the exploitation of east european drivers. we reject the killing of our transport companies and the unemployment of our drivers by social dumping, which is not only permitted but encouraged by european rules. and we will support, without any partisanship, all amendments which go in this direction. i believe that the fear of the wave of what you call populists, who are due to run in the european elections next may, will at least have the merit of forcing the elected representatives of the system to defend, for once, the interests of small businesses and of the... (the president cut to the speaker)
mr president, madam commissioner, a minute to talk about three directives: i think this is an original solution to the problem of interpreters. we should persevere in this way. as regards the problem of working time, i think we have a choice, as has been said, between working conditions and road safety on the one hand and the market on the other. everyone agrees on that. we will not choose the market over the workers. i would also point out, in relation to what i have just heard, that if its conditions and fees were so high, there would be no recruitment crisis and if we are having trouble finding drivers, it is probably because the conditions are tough and the wages are meagre. i think we can find synergy and compromise on working time and cabotage, but i would still like to make a remark on the question of secondment: if the outright exclusion of secondment is a compromise position, what was the radical position? in these conditions, i'm still a little surprised that the tip of the rainbow is presented as the rainbow itself. a little reason would be in order.
mr president, the central issue of this 'mobility' package is clear: it is to combat the continuing deterioration of the disastrous working conditions of millions of truck drivers. will we accept that lorry drivers are allowed to spend more than two weeks in their cabin without a normal weekly rest? will we agree to allow bus drivers to drive for 12 consecutive days without a weekly rest? will we accept the legalization of rest for drivers in their cabs against the very opinion of the court of justice of the european union? ask yourselves the questions, colleagues. would you sleep in your office after a hard day's work? would you accept that your employees spend their rest weekend in the office? truck drivers are angry, and they're right to be. they are angry because, sitting comfortably in their comfortable seats, some members of the european parliament, who have no idea how hard the job of a lorry driver is, dare to ask them to take their rest in the cab and drive for two weeks without any normal weekly rest of 45 hours. they're right to come here to protest and fight for their rights. it is the future of their profession that is at stake. such proposals must be fought vigorously and we socialists and democrats will do everything to ensure that measures are adopted which improve the rights of all workers.
mr president, commissioner, the european union is built on the basis of permanent cooperation between states, between citizens and between economic actors. but what do we see today? while our unity has never been more necessary to deal with growing global instability, the divisions within europe itself have never been greater. road transport is a good example of this. for france, more than 30 000 companies, almost 400 000 jobs, find themselves in unfair competition with foreign carriers, who are themselves european. with these texts on the mobility package, we started from a vision of more liberalisation at the very moment when we are expected to implement fairer rules. we will therefore oppose any text which does not improve the situation or which increases unfair competition or which does not allow drivers to work under more decent and fairer conditions.
mr president, i will not surprise my colleagues in the epp by recalling that my inspiration is the social paper, the social position of the epp group, and that is why i will follow the results of the committee on employment and social affairs rather than those of the committee on transport and tourism. i think europe must move towards a better social voice and not towards a less social voice, as is unfortunately too often the case. and i think that as the grandson and great-grandson of what was called, at the time, a truck driver, i would be failing in my duty to his memory if i took a different position from the one i am about to take. so i urge, but i know that all my colleagues in the french delegation to the epp will take the same position, to support the texts from the committee on employment and social affairs and not those from the committee on transport and tourism.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, in two years' time, almost 10% of the venezuelan population will have left the country, or nearly 3 million people. the reasons, as already mentioned, are a very serious economic crisis with job losses and unprecedented difficulties in the supply of food and medicine. priority has been given to colombian dual nationals, graduates, but also all types of workers who are exiled to already unstable border countries, but also to the united states and europe, thus overloading new immigration channels that are already overloaded. what a waste at the beginning of the 21st century, which will have to be blamed on a process of globalisation in general and on commodity speculation in particular. this is all the more so as some political leaders are pushing for the radicalisation of overly selective political principles, principles which have already proven to be unsuccessful. so this caricature, which could have been avoided, should make all heads of state, including those of the european union, think twice before encouraging again the phenomenon of inept and blind globalization.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it is therefore urgent to recall that there is a directive on the subject, and the commission's role is to explain how to better apply it. we therefore call on you, through this resolution, to define explicit guidelines. these must enable the national authorities, in particular, to distinguish between smugglers and citizens acting in a disinterested manner. without this distinction, it will be difficult to be really effective in the fight against the real criminals who are traffickers. we must avoid being the wrong target and confusing citizens of good faith with smugglers, particularly in france, as my colleague judith sargentini has reminded us. we therefore call for harmonization in this area. it is essential for the action of associations and actors on the ground to be known and framed throughout the union. the commission's message must be clear in a european context of growing suspicion towards migrants and those who help them.
mr president, by saying that ngos are playing the game of smugglers, emmanuel macron is following in the footsteps of the italian government. in addition to failing to meet its obligations in terms of receiving asylum seekers, mistreating them from calais to the italian border, imprisoning children and condemning the humanity of citizens who show solidarity, france is now going so far as to attack directly the ngos which make up for the shortcomings of the member states. what a shame! taking these ngos as scapegoats is playing into the hands of the far right and other populists. interfering with the work of ngos only makes the situation worse for those who cross the mediterranean to escape the worst. the truth is that france, like many other states, prefers to attack citizens who show humanity rather than criminals who attack migrants. this has to stop. let the ngos and the european citizens intervene without hindrance. better, take what is a moral obligation yourself.
mr president, it is not surprising that the european union is losing its solidarity with the member states who want to punish those associations which, under the guise of humanitarian aid, actually promote human trafficking. the motion for a resolution tabled by mr moraes is therefore a gigantic aerial appeal which the smuggling mafias will be making tomorrow. on the contrary, we call on the european union to tighten up the measures to combat illegal immigration and to close this pandora's box now. we also call on the member states to increase financial sanctions against these ngos, some of which receive opaque funding, and to confiscate their vessels, such as the aquarius. like matteo salvini, let us send a clear message to the smuggling networks and to all those who would be tempted to enter europe illegally tomorrow. in short, the saving of lives in the mediterranean must not be used as a trojan horse for a flood of migration in europe tomorrow.
mr president, mr prime minister, what crimes are poland accused of? the crime of truth: poland refuses to submit to the media and its lying propaganda. crime of justice: poland refuses the massive immigration imposed by germany for its economic growth. the crime of sovereignty: poland refuses to allow judges to exercise the sovereign power of the people, because justice is done in the name of the people. in short, the union reproaches poland for being poland. to resist, as it knows how to do, the opposition, the oppression of the new european order, which is a disaster for our peoples and our nations. the union reproaches it for preserving its identity by opposing the new globalist religion which destroys law, justice, individualism, relativism, nihilism, a religion opposed to the law of god and therefore to human rights. poland will remain poland. it has withstood the barbarism of nazism and communism. long live poland!
mr president, we were told that there was a major breakthrough for social europe in road transport. in reality, we will have to go over the social europe again, because the votes have shown that there is a majority here in this european parliament for the social caste, for dumping, for ever more unfair competition and ever more liberalisation in the freight transport sector. but worse, the votes showed a willingness to continue to break the rights of road workers. in reality, social europe will have to wait a little longer, and i believe that this is unfortunately impossible under the current treaties.
mr president, mr president of the eurogroup, mr commissioner, we are gathered here today following the conclusions of the eurogroup of 21 june, which mark the end of a long period during which greece has been subject to several programmes, over a long period and with great intensity. i think this is a moment to be hailed. we were in greece last week with a delegation from parliament and we can say that something has changed there and that in this something that has changed the ideology may not be where we think it is. we sometimes get the impression, or even the certainty, of a government that is in complete control of its ship, in charge, negotiating with international bodies and an opposition that continues to add fuel to the fire, an opposition that would rather see greece have to subscribe to a new credit line, rather than accept an extension of maturity in greece. on the european stage, an opposition that prefers to continue thinking that it would be good to have a programme for greece, not to trust this government, even though it has demonstrated, day after day, its ability to carry out reforms. so of course, everything is not perfect. in greece, the issue of tax collection must remain a priority. the taxation conditions will not have to be redefined, but the collection of taxes will have to be further improved. of course, we also need to learn from it. greece will need to be helped to develop projects, to ensure that there is administrative capacity, to finance and support national investment. of course, greece also needs to regain the space for countercyclical fiscal policy that the conclusions of 21 april have allowed. but we must also learn from this, because we cannot start programmes in other countries as we did in greece. i do not hope that this will happen, but if it does, we must be more cautious about the social and economic cost of such recovery programmes. and then, this crisis was never just a crisis of greece, it is also a crisis that says something about the functioning of the eurozone, about the need to have a stabilisation capacity, an investment capacity. this is the whole debate on the future of the euro area, which we must put back on the drawing board.
mr president, mr moscovici, with the end of the third programme of economic adjustment in greece, the time has come to take stock. and behind this pompous and technocratic term, there is a reality, that of the purge of fiscal austerity that greece has been obliged to apply in return for debt relief. so the objective has been achieved for your commission and for the ecb, but at what cost? the european union's will was clear: the euro had to be saved at all costs in order to safeguard the interests of the financial markets. let's be honest, the purpose of the european union was not to save greece and its people. the greek economy has been torn apart by privatisation, its social protection model ravaged by budget cuts, in short, a whole generation has been sacrificed to ensure the viability of the euro area. since 2010, wages have fallen by 35%, pensions by 45%, gdp by 27% and investment by 60%. in these circumstances, two conclusions are necessary: the euro and austerity are inseparable, thus demonstrating the harmfulness of the single currency. as for mr tsipras, he has gone from the revolutionary left to submission to the troika.
madam president, i am appalled by the violence of the remarks of our colleagues on the left. who are they today to give us moral lessons, when they helped to set up an immigration system that is illegal for many and which the people of europe today refuse. the ballot boxes are proof. i would first of all like to assure our friend matteo salvini of our full support and solidarity. it is not the words, much less the courageous action of the italian minister of the interior, that should be questioned, certainly not in this chamber which is a veritable prison for freedom of expression and which is becoming increasingly fragile as the peoples of europe turn their backs on the ideological dictates of brussels, particularly, of course, on immigration. what is at issue is the policy of the globalists who are rampant here in strasbourg or in brussels and who want to make the roma and other peoples the reference people, to the detriment of the rights of the rooted peoples of europe. you may be able to silence freedom of speech, but the rights of the people are already in your face. matteo salvini and the italian elections are proof of this. our colleagues on the left are now attacking with incantations which, as you know, no longer convince anyone who defends italian national sovereignty. i would like to end with the words of victor hugo, who in 1850 said to his opponents in the chamber of deputies: 'you are nothingness waiting for chaos'. matteo salvini, with the strength of the italian people and the ballot box, refuses and fights the chaos in his country.
madam president, the truth about this debate is that you are not in control of your frustration at the return of nations to the forefront of european politics. the european union is today trying to teach a lesson to matteo salvini, who was elected by the italians and is sovereign in his country. it has made this practice its main activity, a sign of its inability to solve the challenges of the time. if i may return to the substance of the debate, you are not defending minorities out of humanism, but to attack the leaders elected by the italian people, and that is because they do not fit the mold of your ideology. mr salvini chose to expel the sinti and the roma and thus to control migration flows. this is the direct consequence of the failure of your migration policies and the failure of schengen, because your european union is about to become the champion of precariousness and insecurity, but understand that the people do not want this. i hear you talking about racism and fascism. no, you can't! matteo salvini simply loves his people and protects them. under the guise of free movement of people, you have created the conditions for chaos. this model of society is far from the model forged by centuries of european culture in terms of land use planning, architecture and quality of life. so, thank you for showing a little humility in the face of your disastrous record. trust the italians and let matteo salvini do the talking on italian domestic policy.
in writing. the european institutions' outrage at the statements of the italian minister of the interior, matteo salvini, cannot hide the abysmal record of their strategy in favour of minorities. all member states, particularly the eastern european states where roma minorities are numerically large, have made considerable efforts to integrate. this is the case, for example, in higher education in romania, where there are privileged access routes for students from these populations, in addition to the many legal and constitutional protections. the lack of concrete results must also be attributed to the lifestyle adopted by some members of the roma community. thus, schools subject to so-called segregation in schools are in fact obeying the wishes of the parents of pupils who, in the states concerned, often prefer to withdraw their children from schools attended by what are considered to be a significant number of children from the roma community. the commission cannot constantly point the finger at the european people and ignore the real difficulties in integrating these minorities. similarly, free movement, the fruit of the schengen area, merely postpones this problem without providing solutions.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would like to greet kinga gál and the rapporteurs, but above all i would like to greet our assistants, who have taken part in countless technical meetings and to whom we really owe all our respect. there have been very intensive negotiations on this matter, which was considered a priority by the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the council, which agreed to create this travel authorisation for visa-free third-country nationals, on the model of esta in the united states. these nationals will have to apply for an etias authorisation online by providing information about themselves and their journey. i hope that the number of online frauds for etias will be less than for esta. i'm closing the story. the system will be designed to check, before travellers arrive, whether or not they pose a risk to public security, public health or illegal immigration. today, with only their identity documents, these risks are assessed within deadlines that are sometimes imposed at the border. the commission has therefore conceived this new system as a kind of pre-authorisation, an upstream assessment. that said, once you accept the need for external border controls, which is my case, everything looks fluid, but i still have some reservations about this system. some have been solved by the addition of guarantees, as is the case in certain areas, others are more in the form of european negotiations on security. in substance, as with any european information system, my group has worked with concern for these objectives, but above all for its impact on the rights of applicants and the protection of their data. thus, thanks to our initiative, an evaluation and recommendation body, a guidance board, has been added to the system, which is composed of independent experts responsible for verifying that it does not lead to a violation of the fundamental rights of travellers. we have also ensured that there is no systematic retention of travellers' data, in line with the court of justice's ruling on the eu-canada pnr agreement. this tool will take the form of a database managed by the union and its member states. transport companies and border guards will have to check that each of the travellers concerned has an etias before they are allowed to leave or enter europe. this system will be colossal to implement. given the difficulties experienced by a number of member states in implementing the european pnr within the timeframe, there are some doubts about the date of operational implementation of etias. my greatest regret about this text is that the member states are trying to broaden the objectives of the system. etias was designed as a simple travel authorisation, and the council has proposed, for example, to make it a lie detector. (the president cut the speaker off) he wanted each traveller to declare the address of their first stay and at the border, the border guards could ask for the address where the person would go and check in the system whether it was in line with what had been declared during the first online application. fortunately, parliament has managed to avoid this infernal machine. i would like to conclude by stressing that these european negotiations should really give priority to strategic thinking and concepts in order to create texts that are applicable and respectful of people.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, etias is one of the last parts of the frontiers package. it will complete the construction of fortress europe, erecting electronic walls in addition to the physical walls and barbed wire already in place. thanks to the entry and exit system, every third-country national entering the european union will now be identified, recorded and traced. at the moment, only those who did not need a visa could escape. etias is remedying this by creating for them what i call a low cost visa, a visa that doesn't say its name, a paid travel authorisation, modelled on what exists in the united states and australia. the data provided are even more numerous and even more intrusive than for a visa, and therefore more offensive to data protection, more dangerous for the risks of profiling, not to mention police cooperation with unsafe third countries. and to do this, we have devised a new institutional procedure, which is to give our staff a political mandate to complete the technical negotiation for almost six months after the political agreement. all of this deserved better. these smart borders are definitely not. the european union continues to deny itself, giving pledges to the far right at the expense of rights and freedoms, the principles of necessity and proportionality, without any proof of effectiveness from the point of view of security, but at an exorbitant cost that a few military and security lobbies will be able to profit from, here and elsewhere. i am not satisfied with that, commissioner, and for us it is a no and a no again.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the schengen area is open to all. the european union is finally becoming aware of the dangers this poses, particularly in terms of security. this is why it wants to set up this etias system, which will allow for personal information on nationals of 62 states, including saudi arabia, which is exempt from visa requirements for entry into the schengen area. this will affect nearly 40 million people entering the schengen area each year. i obviously support this basic precautionary measure, but i am surprised that it took until 2018 to implement it. secondly, and most importantly, my approval of etias does not mean that i succumb to the alleged charm of the schengen area. etias is a bad idea in my opinion. the real solution to ensuring the security of european states is to re-establish controls at national borders.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to welcome the content of the excellent mandate prepared by our rapporteur-general, mr daniele viotti. from 12 july, in your presence, commissioner, we will meet the council and its austrian presidency for a trilogue to highlight our priorities, our method and our agenda. our task will be accomplished while we are already largely mobilised by the post-2020 draft financial framework. while this approach may generate a clear increase in work, it may also justify our attempt to raise the 2019 budget, at least for certain actions, to the level it should reach by 2021. in this connection, i would like to mention the funds allocated to the erasmus+ programme, and i do so by way of example and conviction. erasmus, which has just celebrated its 30th anniversary, is one of the most successful initiatives to which the european union has contributed. the mobility of young people in europe awakens and consolidates european citizenship, and makes it possible to discover and share good practice in teaching, vocational training and apprenticeship. unfortunately, the erasmus programme is a source of frustration, as each year 50% of applications are rejected for lack of funds. i am pleased to see that the commission is drawing the consequences of this in the draft multiannual financial framework (mff) it published on 2 may, proposing to double the volume of appropriations. parliament, for its part, is calling for a threefold increase, because to the unsatisfied demands of today we must add the new expectations of apprentices and trainees in vocational training, in the context of the new erasmus pro programme. this is an excellent measure to combat youth unemployment effectively. in these circumstances, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i hope that we can make erasmus meet the expectations of young europeans and their families as early as 2019. let us do our utmost to ensure that the 2019 budget is the harmonious anticipation of the ambitions expressed in the next multiannual financial framework for a europe that prepares our future and protects us.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we begin the debate on the multiannual financial framework, we also have to decide on the mandate for the trilogue on the 2019 budget in line with our priorities. intelligence, sustainability and inclusion are the leitmotif of our action to ensure a european budget that lives up to our ambitions. we could add commitment, boldness, solidarity and words must be echoed in deeds. regional cohesion, sustainable economic growth, the fight against climate change, the dignified reception of refugees, the fight against youth unemployment. the challenges are many and they can only be tackled effectively through policies financed at community level, without any false pretenses. the vote in the committee on budgets was generally satisfactory. this budget is in progress compared to 2018 and i welcome the work of my colleague daniele viotti. but i would like to make three points. this 2019 budget should significantly improve the funding of the youth employment initiative, as already mentioned, of erasmus+, as also mentioned, and of horizon 2020 for innovation and research. it must not contain direct budgetary links between terrorism and migration. there's no need to confuse. finally, all new initiatives must be financed by additional funds, not at the expense of room for manoeuvre. i have the great honour of joining our assembly since 11 june, when the budget debate is being opened. this debate and the conclusions of the trilogue must enable us to tell our fellow europeans that europe will not give up supporting youth, cohesion policy, rural development, biodiversity, research, innovation and, as you said, commissioner, investment in digital technology and the energy transition. i will be attentive, in my responsibilities, to these fundamental subjects, which are most integrated at european level.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, we are debating this oral question tonight because the committee on petitions of this parliament has been approached by several hundred european citizens who are known as 'accidental americans'. an 'accidental american' is, in fact, contrary to what the name suggests, a european citizen whom the united states considers to be linked in some way to american nationality, whether by descent, birth or even, in some cases, by mistake. the consequences are dramatic for these people because what they are being asked to do is to become compliant with us taxation by paying five years of back taxes in the us. what does this mean in practice? it is considered that with arrears plus lawyers' fees, you must have at least 30,000 euros but in some cases it can be as high as 60,000, 80,000 or even more than 100,000 euros to pay to comply. if you do not, you are denied access to the most basic banking services. so you might think that we are dealing with marginal cases, but that is not the case at all, since a study of just one quarter of the european union reports more than 100 000 people affected. therefore, it is conceivable that between 300 000 and 500 000 citizens may be affected at union level. why are we here? because the member states, in application of the fatca act, have agreed to sign bilateral agreements which allow the unilateral and extraterritorial application of us law on european soil. it is high time that the european union finally stood up for its citizens to put an end to this denial of rights and negotiated a european agreement that is reciprocal and in line with our fundamental rights (data protection, access to banking services) and that the european union also opposed, finally, the extraterritorial application of us law.
madam president, i thank the council and the commission for their contribution, but when i hear you speak, i sometimes get the impression that you have not met these 'accidental americans' or these americans despite them. these are european citizens who are in a very special situation because they are faced with a country, the united states, which has put in place a system of acquisition of nationality which does not exist anywhere else, so there is no point in talking about reciprocity. there is a particular problem with the conditions for acquiring us citizenship, and you must take it into account. there is also a problem with the way in which the united states has implemented its extraterritoriality, which also has an impact. but, commissioner, i really invite you to meet these 'accidental americans'. these are people who find themselves in a situation as european citizens, mainly, totally discriminated against. the logic of applying fatca may lead them to become unbanked, as banks do not like to deal with the implementation of fatca. so you're saying that's not our job. of course, the states wanted to retain competence when it came to negotiating a tax convention or agreement, but that is not the issue. the issue, in the end, is how our banks have bowed and asked their states to bow to the implementation of the facta law to continue to enjoy access to the us market and not see their revenues taxed at 30%. but now it really becomes a subject of negotiation between financial markets. that is why i ask you, together with vice-president dombrovskis, to raise this issue whenever i travel to the united states so that the principle of proportionality becomes a reality. ... (the president withdrew from the floor)
the agenda calls for a debate on the commission statement on the participation of people with disabilities in european elections (2018/2647 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, people with disabilities have the right to political participation. this right is guaranteed by several legal instruments, including the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. this right to participate must therefore also be exercised in european elections. several measures need to be taken, including ensuring that polling stations are accessible, which is far from being effective at the moment. more generally, the public and the administrations must be made aware of the need to make every effort to guarantee genuine equality for the disabled in the electoral field. this equality implies that a disabled person must not only be able to vote but also to stand for election if he or she so wishes. i do not want to see a quota system, as tunisia has just done for the municipal elections. tunisia requires that each list of candidates include at least one disabled person. such a system may seem generous, but it is contrary to equality before the vote. it is also likely to hinder democracy by preventing candidates from standing in elections if they have not succeeded in persuading a disabled person to join them. everything must be done to ensure equality, but in strict respect of democracy.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on six motions for resolutions on the political crisis in moldova following the invalidation of the local elections in chisinau (2018/2783 ((rsp)).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that since the annulment of the municipal elections in chisinau on 3 june, a serious political crisis has destabilised moldova. the country is situated between the european union and russia, and is close to russia in geography, history and culture, and is in a particularly fragile geopolitical situation. once again, i see that brussels is meddling in the affairs of a third country. it turns out that the vast majority of the russian-speaking population is pro-russian. it just so happens that brussels is always trying to settle accounts with russia. this attempt by the commission to interfere is nothing more than a denial of the right of peoples to self-determination. as the commission has shown in the case of poland, hungary and italy. but, what is more serious, by attracting this region to romania at all costs, it will risk triggering a crisis with russia and ukraine. the commission is going to create chaos in moldova and blow on the coals of a potential civil war through dogmatism, bitterness and error, simply to settle accounts with russia.
in writing. the debate on moldova in the european parliament on 5 july 2018 deviates from the real issues: it will only be about electoral disputes. the €661 million in eu subsidies already paid since 2007 and the massive embezzlement of former prime minister vlad filat will be forgotten. the latter was sentenced in 2016 to nine years in prison for accepting $260 million in bribes from the missing billion euros from three moldovan banks. what about the curious team of the euronest assembly, made up of elected members of the european parliament and the parliaments of armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, moldova and ukraine? what french taxpayer can accept this concept of european parliamentarians wasting their time in a "biss parliament" with these eastern countries? this debate time should be used to discuss the three priorities of the europeans: the fight against jihadism, the control of migration flows and the fight against unemployment.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the situation in somalia is terrible, as everyone can see. the resolution, tabled by four left-wing members, is once again a sum of pious wishes to give each other a clear conscience. the socialist elected officials seem to be discovering today all the evils of radical islamism, because that is the problem. wherever they are in power in europe, they are the great defenders of multiculturalism and pay very little attention to the damage of the islamization of our societies. as strong supporters of mass immigration, they should above all combat the mass infiltration of jihadists into europe, deliberately organised by the islamic state. so, trying to pacify somalia is an illusion, given the state of the country, especially since we cannot equate the actions of states with those of murderous islamist groups. so let the socialist moralists sweep their doors and stop being accomplices in the islamization of the nations of europe, as they did or continue to do in molenbeek, or in italy yesterday, or in spain today.
mr president, commissioner, i did not intend to speak, but i would like to say two things. on the one hand, the fact that the european union has chosen to go to somalia is very courageous. to go to a place that is extremely risky, and despite everything to hold on, is a good thing, marks our presence and it is positive. the second thing - and i have said this many times - is that i do not believe that there is a solution to the problem of security and defence without very strong support for national forces. i remain convinced of this, along with the members of the security council who are particularly involved, who have the capacity to intervene and also the means. i think of france, i think of russia, i think of the united states. i therefore believe that, on the one hand, the affirmation of our presence and, on the other hand, the role we could play in ensuring such coordination would truly fulfil our peace mission.
author. mr president, this is the sixth resolution on burundi since april 2015, when president nkurunziza announced his intention to stand for re-election. since then, the repression has continued to intensify, reaching a new level with the constitutional referendum in may 2018. the number of human rights activists imprisoned, sentenced to long prison terms, and restrictions on freedom of association and freedom of the press is no longer to be counted. the un commission of inquiry strongly condemns political violence, arbitrary arrests and extrajudicial executions. the imbonerakure, the youth league of the ruling party, are increasingly militarized and radicalized. they are the main culprits behind this rise in violence and extortion. the fragile arusha agreements are more than ever under threat, in particular because of the ethnicisation of the political crisis. the burundian population is the first victim. 65% of the people live below the poverty line, while this country, like many others in the region, is rich in its underground. the european union has taken individual sanctions. it has decided to suspend its direct payments to the burundian government. - what's the deed? there is an urgent need to act, to act before the 2020 elections and to do everything to ensure that president nkurunziza finally keeps his word not to run. only a political process involving all stakeholders can help. this is where we need to work together.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, a war machine, with a possible genocide, is being set in motion in burundi. it is not the work of a legitimately elected government which nevertheless represents a large part of the population. it is the result of a thinly veiled aggression by the rwandan neighbour. after his bloody and genocidal deeds in the great lakes, president kagame wants to take back control in burundi. his technique is simple, it's tried and tested: he stirs up ethnic tensions, and then, when the government wants to restore its authority, he shouts about possible genocide to invade the country. it is the kagamé method of invasion, he also changed the constitution to be dictator for life. we must not be manipulated by sanctions which continue to affect the people, while the tyrant of kigali is rehabilitated. we must accompany a hard and difficult process of democracy.
mr president, i would like to make a point of order on the basis of rule 2 concerning the independence of our mandate and to inform my colleagues that on thursday 30 august an official of parliament, who claims to be acting on a mandate from the bureau of the european parliament to hunt down false information, asked me to change a tweet or delete it. a tweet in which i expressed my position on president juncker's signing of the jefta (eu-japan economic partnership agreement) without the european parliament having been consulted beforehand. this official felt entitled to threaten me if i did not comply. what does all this mean? is there a thought police in the european parliament, mandated to dictate to us members what we are entitled to say and to correct what we say? that any criticism of the european union is now false information? i say to you, ladies and gentlemen, this case concerns us all, because the freedom of expression of members of parliament is sacred. you know, mr president, i like political confrontation, inside and outside the european parliament, but i will never accept that an official tells me what to say and interferes so much with my mandate. you are the guarantor of our rights, mr president, and i expect an answer from you, because this is a very serious matter, because it infringes fundamental principles on the freedom of expression of members of parliament.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, from the very beginning the tone is set: to prevent the rise of euroscepticism, a few thousand volunteers will come to spread the good news and join the ranks of the ngos that are already polluting the reefs of the mediterranean. the objective of this umpteenth flag, pompously named the 'european solidarity corps', is all too obvious. the commission is not pleased that the temptation to remove some young people from the embarrassing unemployment figures is not new, nor is the temptation to target disadvantaged groups. emmanuel macron has already made a breakthrough this summer by opening up the civil service to some 5,000 refugees a year. unsurprisingly, young europeans from the lower classes will pay a heavy price for this foreign preference, since the erasmus+ budget is cut off. however, as a crucial electoral deadline approaches, france and the europe of the forgotten will be keen to remind brussels that it is only dependent on the will of the people.
mr president, i thank our rapporteur for trying to put the matrix of this programme back on a basis closer to cohesion policy. i'm not reassured. i even wonder why such a programme exists, especially when it is financially based on regional policy. the liberal objectives it pursues are not those of economic, social and territorial cohesion to which our parliament is so attached. i am also concerned about the widening of this drift with the proposals for the next multiannual financial framework, in which the commission proposes to allocate €22 billion to this programme, thus endorsing the dismantling of cohesion policy. ladies and gentlemen, we must be careful not to choose a europe which turns its back on the development of our territories in favour of a europe which encourages the liberalisation of labour markets and the dismantling of health systems. do you want to make that choice? i don't think he did.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, greece is a total, total disaster. between 2008 and 2016, gross domestic product almost halved from €360 billion to €192 billion. 40% of young people are now unemployed, and even more if all those leaving are taken into account. and yet, you hear me right, we have given to this country, or we have helped it, for almost 500 billion euros. let me explain: 100 billion by cancelling private debts, 100 billion by deferring various debts, or 200 billion in donations; and 300 billion by the total repayment of all debt. and all for an outcome that would divide this country in two and destroy it economically. even a mad king, a madman, would not have been able to carry out such a policy. and yet, that was our policy.
in writing. the report recalls the need for policies to help workers re-enter the labour market, and in particular the fact that the presence of older people in the workforce leads to less staff turnover, whose productivity benefits from broader skills and experience, better engagement in the workplace and sometimes better performance than younger workers, particularly in terms of conflict resolution. the proposals in this report are common sense and in line with what is already being done in france, and will therefore not lead to a change in the current legislation. on the contrary, it will be able to help combat social dumping in member states whose current legislation is much less restrictive in terms of the reintegration policy of workers following injury or illness. however, we condemn this interference in our national legislation, which could block any future progress that france might decide to make.
in writing. while multilingualism is one of the assets of europe, which is made up of often centuries-old nation states, we should not, however, be under any illusions - which is the flip side of this text - about the possibilities offered by language technologies to meet the challenge. these cannot replace language learning and, in this respect, the ambitious barcelona objectives concerning the mastery of two foreign languages are struggling to be realised. moreover, member states have exclusive competence with regard to their language strategies, and the requirement of bilingualism is not uniformly imposed everywhere. the most serious flaw in this report is its interference with the powers of the member states, particularly in the field of education. not only is it unacceptable to 'assimilate the languages of migrants' to european minority languages, but it is intolerable to try to determine their use within the school system. finally, i would point out that before interfering in the language policies of the member states, the european union itself should set the example within its own institutions, where the primacy of english is becoming ever more pronounced despite the imminence of brexit.
mr president, the hautala report makes a good point, but it is wrong about the remedies. globalization is the problem, not the solution. trying to fix it with green regulatory rust does not stop its destructive logic. the only real solution is to abandon this absurd free trade of the single world market which is based on price competition. the massive importation of timber and its processing outside our environmental and social standards in china and vietnam is the real source of deforestation, and the report does not address this. 75% of wood exports go to china, french timber too. the report also calls for the establishment of a european environmental policy, which is to be based on the principles of sustainable development and sustainable development. we shall therefore vote against this report, despite its good intentions.
mr president, the swedish parliamentary elections are a new warning for the european union. with almost 20% of the vote, the nationalists became a key player in swedish politics. the main reason for their breakthrough is that they refuse to be overwhelmed by migration. i myself have been to sweden and i have seen how much of a problem mass immigration has become. it is no wonder that a democratic upsurge has taken place. the european union must listen to the message of the swedish people and stop locking itself in the ivory tower of its unbridled globalism. the people of europe want secure borders, not the straw man that the schengen area has become. matteo salvini and marine le pen are now their spokesmen, not jean-claude juncker and emmanuel macron. listen to them while there is still time and join us in transforming the european union into a europe of nations. otherwise, the whole of the european construction will disappear.
mr president, mr prime minister, thank you for your words, your commitment and your strong convictions for a europe which serves the people of europe. i am a french socialist, and you know that president hollande and commissioner moscovici have been very committed to working to ensure that greece is kept in the euro area. we share your priorities, which should be those of europe for social progress, in a protected environment, for more solidarity and humanism, respect for values and intransigence against the violation of fundamental rights. and you have a lot to do in this council, which is becoming increasingly unwilling to do so. and you are right, europe cannot be two sides of the same coin: populists on one side and liberalism on the other. there is another possible way, a way of progress, and you can count on us in the socialist and democratic group to take this europe for europeans forward.
mr president, mr prime minister, when you came to power in greece, you raised a lot of hopes: among your own people, of course, but also among all those who are committed to democracy and who are aware of the misery that the european union is inflicting on the people. i was. then you betrayed him, and how? in a well-known way, unfortunately, by the europeans, by sitting on the result of a referendum. when your people spoke out massively against the austerity plan imposed by the troika, you imposed it on them. why? because it was the price of remaining in the european union and the euro, at the expense of health, pensions and prosperity. betrayal is the lot of all those who refuse to leave the european union. and unfortunately, many of them are raising hopes today, at your feet, which will inevitably be disappointed: mr salvini, if he does not decide to take his people, his country out of the european union, and of course your ally, mr mélenchon, whose insubordination is already wavering when he meets mr macron. i'm not here to lecture you, mr. prime minister, but to learn from your failure. i hope that a new generation of politicians will stop lying in bed and take a path which, for the nations and for france, necessarily involves frexit, that is, the exit from the european union.
mr president, mr prime minister, the figures are there, 500 billion in aid, 300 billion in debt repayment, 100 billion for the banks that have cancelled their debts and 100 billion for the various deferrals, which have a cost. 500 billion to split your gross domestic product (gdp) by 50 percent. could you explain to me how such a policy can be made, when if europe, as i suggested in 2012, had invested wealth, had forced the production of new wealth in greece, through the monetary creation of the central bank, it could have balanced, without the recession and unemployment, the balance of payments of greece. and this plan was rejected because europe is nothing but a decoy! there is no solidarity, there is no cooperation in the current institutions.
mr president, mr prime minister, let us pay tribute to the greek people and their efforts. let us acknowledge that the european union bears its share of responsibility for the prolonged greek crisis, and let us draw two lessons in particular. first, there is no reason why the failure of a central government to repay its debt should lead to the country leaving its monetary area. california, new york, puerto rico went bankrupt, and no one proposed to exclude them from the dollar zone. eight years ago, the general lack of caution in diagnosis cost greece and the euro area dearly. secondly, the greek economy could have recovered earlier if the european capital market had really worked, but for several years now national regulators have prohibited the abundant savings of the strong economies of northern europe from financing the many projects of greek smes. let us know how to remedy it once and for all.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, if i believe the hungarian press, those who vote for mrs sargentini's report will be sold to mr soros. so, mr. prime minister, i'm going to make a confession: here on these benches, billionaire soros is really not our cup of tea. i invite those who want to avoid the caricature and who believe that the rule of law still makes sense in a democracy to read mrs sargentini's report, just read it. it is based on the opinions of the council of europe, in particular the venice commission, and the un. no, it is not a question of condemning the hungarian people or hungary, but of respecting the criteria for accession to the european union in this area, which were accepted by the hungarian government at the time and prepared by your government, mr orbán, when you were prime minister from 1998 to 2002. but back then, you were a liberal. for you, today, freedom is no longer a central element of the organisation of the state and democracy is reduced to a political majority that applies its choices, the strong against the weak. so yes, in hungary, there is a regression of rights for justice, for the press, for education, for asylum, for ngos. but in the economy, there is unlimited liberalism, and even european funds are diverted to the benefit of your relatives. you are an authoritarian neoliberal. it is freedom and democracy that you are putting down, and it is not surprising that you are seeking to ally yourself with mr salvini. your illiberalism is the cradle of the worst nationalism, xenophobia and therefore of the extreme right, and you only have to look at who is applauding you today. yes, thank you, whistle me, that's fine. so, we'll all take responsibility tomorrow and we'll see who's who.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mr prime minister, mrs sargentini claims that your government refuses to engage in dialogue. however, in addition to your permanent representative, you have twice sent your foreign minister to public hearings before the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. mrs sargentini says you despise this parliament, but this is the third time you have come to respond to the incessant attacks on your government. in fact, it is not a report, but an indictment, that of a witch trial conducted exclusively by the burden. he accuses you of not respecting the independence of the judiciary, but at the same time he allows himself to criticize the decisions of hungarian judges and gives his opinion on instructions that are in progress. the sargentini report also criticises your electoral system. however, the latter allows all opinions to be proportionally represented, whereas in france, for example, a party which has been getting between 15 and 25% of the vote for 20 years is entitled to only a few crumbs: seven meps out of 577. while unelected bureaucrats - is that not true, mr timmermans? - are confiscating democracy and imposing a flood of migration on the people, your government is the only one to have consulted its citizens on how to solve this existential crisis of a scale - it must be said - unprecedented. we are being told about the so-called 'values of the european union'. the so-called open society where multiculturalism is advocated is against our traditions, against our identities, against the christian roots of our civilization. in the face of these deadly ideologies, you, mr prime minister, are a true defender of our values of civilization, against communism yesterday, against globalism today. it is also questionable whether your worst opponents today are not in the ranks of the epp. yesterday, mr weber said in the newspaper le monde that he supported commissioner timmermans against hungary, and added that he felt very close to his social democratic and liberal friends. mr prime minister, with only a few months to go before the european elections, in the face of merkel and macron who want more and more immigration and more and more federalism, you, together with matteo salvini, are the spearheads of another europe, the europe we want, the europe we love, the europe of nations, cooperation, protection and, of course, freedom.
mr president, mr prime minister, in a minute i will not have time to list all your attacks on democracy and the rule of law, on freedom of expression, on human dignity. the triggering of article 7 is an absolute necessity, as you are flouting european values more and more every day. values that are precisely aimed at protecting all citizens, at protecting hungarians. no, contrary to what you say, it is not a country that our report denounces, but the actions of your government. we do not insult the honor of hungary; on the contrary, we want to defend it and protect it from your autocratic excesses, because, viktor orbán, you are not defending the freedom of the hungarians, you are consolidating your personal power. you're not protecting them, you're setting them against each other. you're not serving your country, you're locking it up in an authoritarian regime, worse than the one you claimed to be saving it from 30 years ago. this must stop, and the vote on the sargentini report is a first step in that direction.
mr president, mr prime minister, mrs sargentini, i am a frenchman living in vienna, austria, a stone's throw from budapest. i am an observer of central european reality, an observer of western european reality and, strangely enough, we do not see the same thing. it seems that you read history with your ideological glasses and do not look at reality. the european union is destroying its own legitimacy, and its legitimacy is the people's adherence to its great project of unity. the peoples want a europe of power, not a europe that welcomes its enemies, a europe that lets them proliferate and silences those who revolt against this collective madness. so the trial that is being carried out, on false legal grounds, against budapest is a political trial, of course, which aims to silence the brave voices in poland, austria, the czech republic and of course in hungary, who refuse to make the same mistakes as the west in the matter of immigration. those who are conducting this trial will bear a heavy responsibility before history, because in the only history that counts, the history of time, that of civilizations, mr orbán is right.
mr president, prime minister orbán, thank you and congratulations. thank you for offering new hope in the resistance to the federalism of the european union, thank you for giving hungarians and europeans their dignity as free citizens. mr orbán, your courage is admirable in the fight against the euro-globalist caste in davos and brussels, embodied in hungary by mr soros. the hungarian people, who are committed to their national identity, are deeply grateful to you for having triumphantly re-elected you. it is normal, you protect hungarians from the deadly danger of a migrant flood, from islamist terrorism and from the compressive roller of globalism, which brings only economic, social and cultural regression. mr orbán is a patriotic and pro-european leader who, together with the italian leaders, offers a credible alternative for europe. federalists like juncker, merkel and macron want to punish and demonize them. in the name of democracy, the sargentini report and the totalitarian-inspired article 7 must be rejected. that is why we shall vote against this vile report tomorrow. mr orbán, do not change anything, long live the hungarian fidesz!
mr president, mr prime minister, the democratic values and principles of the european union have remained the same, both before and after hungary's accession on 1 may 2004. this accession was a voluntary step, reflecting a broad consensus of the hungarian political class, and the european union is no more lenient than before. we have always had a responsibility to safeguard our common values, especially today, when we are witnessing the emergence of those who advocate exclusion and hatred throughout europe. despite what the hungarian prime minister may have said today, his government's actions represent a systemic threat to the rule of law and, logically, the european union cannot tolerate it. in the current state of our legislation, our strongest response is the article 7 process and i want it to be activated as soon as possible. in advocating article 7, i am not going against the hungarian citizens, quite the contrary, because it seems to me that it is the hungarian citizens who are suffering from the reform of the hungarian constitutional court aimed at limiting its powers. the lack of counter-power is a threat to each of them, and it is always they who no longer enjoy a free and independent press, thus seeing their freedom of opinion restricted. in this house, it is the members of the european parliament who are fighting for the hungarian people, the first victim of this authoritarian drift.
the committee on culture and education has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, as we have seen, copyright is a passionate subject. it also unleashes impulses, and sometimes even lies. it is said that journalists, many of whom risk their lives to write stories, would like to prevent citizens from getting information. we hear that artists, who are often the first defenders of freedom of expression, would like to forbid citizens from exercising this freedom. we hear that europe, the most protective continent of freedoms in the world, would like to censor its citizens and ban memes. in truth, any person of good faith will see the absurdity of all these accusations. there are, of course, legitimate concerns. we answered it. the new proposals guarantee the fundamental rights of everyone in black and white. the truth is that some people are using citizens as an excuse to kill this directive. in reality, what citizens want is simply that artists are paid fairly and that platforms act responsibly. if we reduce this directive to an empty shell, our artists will continue to be paid by tips and the platforms will continue to be accountable to no one. tomorrow the choice will be very simple: either parliament will defend the interests of the american giants or it will defend the interests of europe.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, because the press is necessary for the vitality of democracy and we saw it again today in the debate with the hungarian prime minister: let this be a warning to us all , because culture is also an economy 536 billion euros every year, which employ seven million two hundred thousand people in culture , and above all, because we do not have a digital industry, we must help in this parliament to enhance the value of content, which is one of the elements of balance in our culture. european public opinion, as the polls have just shown, demands that users, i.e. aggregators, i.e. platforms, pay fair remuneration to those who create: artists on the one hand, journalists on the other. my group has tabled amendments to help the rapporteur to be even more effective. on article 11, for example, it is absolutely necessary to be a little more specific, but above all to remove the obstacle that we received in full on 5 july last, in order to bring together more political groups and ensure that protection is unanimous, or at least the majority in this house. we also want to be much more specific on article 13. we have made our intentions known, those of my group, and i shall not enter into the debate. i will simply say that we must trust the authors and ask them to report to the platforms, the texts, the works, the creations that are free of rights, and those that are not, because i do not trust the platforms - whose nuisance capacity was seen up to this house on 5 july - to, i would say, go to the right holders and pay them a fair remuneration. that is why we want to try to be a little more specific to help the rapporteur. i would like to emphasize, mr president, that there is no letter to be removed from what commissioner gabriel said. it was not propaganda, it was the strict reality.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the vote on the copyright directive is decisive for the future of european nations for three reasons. first, politically. a recent survey shows that a large majority of europeans believe that the us internet giants now have more power than the european union. they feel the gafa (google, apple, facebook, and amazon) as a potential risk to the functioning of democracies. will this parliament give in to the millions of spam emails and tweets sent by silicon valley? second, socially. at a time when the gafa are showing unprecedented market capitalisation, are we going to refuse a fair remuneration to our authors and creators, who are workers and whose works make these foreign companies rich? it is time to tell these internet giants that europe is not a big market where they can use the internet freely, for free, with impunity. and finally, without authors and creators, there is no culture. will we take the risk tomorrow... so i'll summarise... tomorrow i will vote for the rapporteur's amendments and all... (the president withdrew the floor)
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would not like to see the debate misled as it was in the case of the discussion on business secrecy. we were told that we wanted to defend small and mediumsized enterprises, but in reality it was the interests of large industrialists that were being protected. the debate here is a bit similar. we are being told that we want to defend creation, the small creator who would be looted, stolen, etc., when in reality it is a fight between the platforms and the big platforms against some publishers and big publishers. so let's try to keep our heads, let's try to understand that through this text, it is all the freedom of the digital, it is all the freedom of the internet that we risk to question. so no, let's not set up automatic filters, let's not give robots and artificial intelligence that only the largest groups will be able to develop the power to control and censor. the internet is not a lawless zone, and if we really want creators and journalists to be paid for their work and creations, then we have the ability to make the gafa pay, including through taxes.
mr president, we have heard many things, many false things, about the text we are debating today. but the issue is simple: we can no longer accept that platforms do not follow any rules and do not pay anyone. for example, youtube now accounts for 94% of online music consumption in europe, but contributes less than 3% of the sector's revenues. in this respect, i would urge my colleagues to vote against the amendment by the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco), which will only have the effect of fossilising this unacceptable status quo. so, ladies and gentlemen, instead of submitting to the propaganda financed and sent from the united states, which has been hitting us for several weeks now, listen to the voice of the europeans. according to a recent survey, 87% of them want rules to reward and protect creators. please, let's not disappoint them.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i commend president trump for the steps he is taking. we must put taxes on imports and restore the balance. put yourself in the shoes of the united states. the us has a 375 billion deficit vis-à-vis china in 2017, 120 billion vis-à-vis europe. it is a unilateral measure, but it is the unilateral way in which the united states withdrew in 1948 from the havana charter, which called for balances to be struck and for there to be no excessive surpluses or deficits. and today the wto was also built in a unilateral way, when the united states saw the advantage of free trade only for its own benefit. and it's also to their benefit that the united states built and opened the border with china, with an agreement, with paulson, without raising tariffs. today, unilaterally, they are returning to the havana charter. long live the united states of america.
in writing. the us is one of the eu's historical allies with whom we have developed a strong and strategic partnership over many years in the face of global challenges such as globalisation, the fight against terrorism and the fight against climate change. the policy pursued by donald trump since his election is damaging the eu-us relationship and it seems to me fundamental to recall that these must be developed on the basis of respect for our values and international law. i am also concerned about the current state of our trade relations. we cannot remain passive in the face of the arbitrary customs duties imposed on european steel and aluminium and the extraterritorial sanctions against our companies operating in iran. the eu must be responsive and firm in its response and the context does not seem to me to be conducive to any trade talks with a view to any agreement with the united states. a real de-escalation by the us must be a precondition for any talks on a trade agreement. finally, and i stress this point, i deeply regret the decision by donald trump to withdraw from several international commitments such as the paris agreement.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy i would like to thank you personally, mr president, for the initiative of parliament in having this item on the agenda this evening, at a time, as you rightly pointed out, when libya really needs the support and the support of the european union, as the european union, and of all the institutions of the european union, at this dramatic moment, not only in the interests of libya and the libyans, but also in the interests of the union. i hope, therefore, that this evening's debate - which i see unfortunately does not involve very many members, but i hope it is of quality - reflects this strong need for unity and a sense of urgency in dealing together as european institutions with a situation which is really a priority for us. for us as the european union and for our friendship with libya, also because, as you recalled, in recent weeks, just yesterday, we have seen a new escalation of violence in and around tripoli, with different militias competing for resources and for power, and we have seen civilians, including migrants, again fall victim to gunfire exchanges, and we have seen once again important infrastructure being destroyed. this tells us that the violence in libya, despite some steps that have been taken, but it's still blocking, it's still blocking an entire country that would have immense potential for both human development and economic development. the attack on the national oil corporation yesterday that you mentioned, like the attack on the electoral commission on may 2, 2018, was both a symptom and a cause of the instability in libya, and these attacks undermine the ability of the state to serve the libyan people. the ceasefire is fragile but it is holding and let me stress today, because we have heard statements and declarations in the past couple of hours it needs to continue to be respected. it is important to send that strong message from this chamber tonight, with our united voices, because various protagonists inside libya need to refrain from stoking tensions, not just by their actions but also by their words. libya needs serenity at this moment, not inflammatory statements. when the latest escalation started, i was first of all in contact immediately with un special representative salamé, supporting his work which has been essential in brokering a ceasefire. we also responded immediately with humanitarian assistance, sending doctors, paramedics and essential equipment. however, i want to stress that, beyond these latest steps, our engagements, as the european institutions, has been intense and constant throughout the years and, in particular, in recent months. the european union's delegation has now returned to tripoli. the last time we discussed libya it was may and your parliamentary delegation had just returned from a visit to tripoli, after a long time without visits, for clear reasons. you, mr president, also visited afterwards and i was there in july, honoured to be able to visit and to open the eu offices in tripoli, and to be able to tell the libyan authorities and the libyan people: we are back, we have always been here with our projects, our support and our work, but we are also back physically, which is important. i reported to the foreign affairs council right after i returned to brussels from that visit. days ago, i spoke again to fayez al-sarraj, chairman of the presidential council of libya and prime minister of the government of national accord (gna), and we agreed to meet at the un general assembly in new york in a couple of weeks from now. libya will be very high on the agenda there, including at the european union foreign ministers' meeting that i will convene as high representative of the european union. but let me focus now on four issues that have been and are central to our engagement. the first is the political transition. two-and-a-half million libyans have registered to vote, showing their desire to turn the page. tens of town hall meetings have been organized all around the country, in difficult conditions and with our support. the libyan people have the right to choose their representatives safely and freely through the ballot box and we are helping the electoral commission in this: we were already helping it before it was attacked in may, and since then we have increased our assistance. as i've said before, the libyans have to know exactly what they are voting for. a solid constitutional framework has to be agreed before the elections. it would be imprudent to elect a president in a legal vacuum. this has always been our common european position and i know that parliament's delegation conveyed these messages to both the high council of state and the house of representatives during their visit in may. my second point concerns the security situation. the council is reviewing the mandates of both our civilian and our military operations and missions, working with the libyan authorities, the eu border assistance mission (eubam) and operation sofia. eubam plays an important role first of all in border management and we all know how crucial this issue is, first and foremost for the territorial borders of libya and for migration management but also for all sorts of trafficking and for counterterrorism reasons. however, eubam is also working on law enforcement and criminal justice: it has facilitated training for the judicial police and the criminal investigations department, and it works with libyan officials on border management. operation sofia is training the libyan coastguards and enforcing the un security council resolutions on the arms and oil embargo. so it is carrying out a responsibility and a duty that also comes from the un system. its strategic review is currently underway, and all the eu member states i discussed this with both the defence and the foreign ministers a couple of weeks ago in vienna have confirmed that they want to preserve operation sofia. its work is perceived by all the member states, and by our libyan counterparts, as essential for libya and for europe. so i cannot overemphasize how crucial it is that we confirm our commitment to libya's security with both eubam and operation sofia, working at sea and on land. the third issue is the economic situation. we discussed this at length with the foreign ministers in july, when we had libya on our agenda, and it is another essential aspect in helping to stabilize the country and meet the aspirations of the libyan people. together with the rest of the international community, we managed to contain the july oil crisis, but the underlying issues remain and could flare up again at any moment. the un security council will renew the mandate of the united nations support mission in libya (unsmil) on thursday this week, and the special representative has asked the mission to act on economic reforms: on wealth distribution and on uniting the financial institutions. this issue has been placed at the heart of the work by the un special representative, and rightly so. it is also an issue that the libyan authorities are identifying as a key element in handling and managing the current situation in libya, and i fully support this view. i think that handling the economic situation, particularly with economic reforms, wealth distribution and the uniting of the country's financial institutions, is going to be a key part of our work. so we fully support this agenda and, accordingly, we have joined the economic dialogue together with the usa, the international monetary fund and the world bank. our goal is to help libya implement reforms to ensure that the revenues deriving from oil can be distributed in a transparent manner and benefit the people of libya. my fourth and last point concerns migration. in our work with the african union and the united nations that we started after the eu-african union summit in abidjan last november, and together with the international organization for migration (iom) and the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) and in close partnership with the african union, we have freed thousands of people from detention centers in libya changing the approach to some extent and addressing the issues from the point of view of partnership and cooperation with the international organizations. however, the lives and rights of thousands of migrants continue to be threatened, even more so as the result of a spiral of violence in the country. we know very well that migrants can become, and most often do become, the first targets and the first victims when violence inflates. all parties should ensure unhindered access for the unhcr and the un, both inside and outside detention centres, and all obstacles to their ability to operate fully should be removed, while we continue to work towards emptying the detention centres, providing those who want to go back home with an opportunity to do so, and opening a safe path to europe for those who have the right to international protection. let me say that emptying detention centres remains one of our key objectives and we are working towards it with, as i said, good results so far, but obviously the security situation also has an impact on that work. on this point, in relation to the international protection of those migrants who are entitled to international protection, let me say that eu member states have a special responsibility. i call on them to accelerate the pace of evacuations from libya through niger because, just as we are working well with the iom on voluntary returns by migrants who were trapped in libya and want to go back, and we support that, we also have the responsibility and the duty to give international protection to those who are in need of and entitled to it. it's a matter of credibility and it's also a matter of efficiency. that goes too for our collective investment in the field of migration. let me say here that the european union has done its part. the commission is investing more resources in the european union trust fund for africa. it is now up to member states to do their part, in line with the commitments they made at the june european council, and invest more money in africa. the member states need to do their part here because the european union, the commission and the institutions have enormously increased the amount of money we invest in africa, not only in the traditional fields of development aid, humanitarian aid, peace and security, but also in economic issues, in trade, in good governance and rule of law, in human rights, in women's and youth participation, and in many other issues, including climate change which is extremely important in relation to migration. however, we need member states not only to say that we need to invest more in africa but also to invest more in africa themselves, with a partnership approach. having said that, it is also true that the number of migrants who crossed the mediterranean in this first part of this year - and now it is already the ninth month - was down by 80% compared to the same period last year, and this is a result of the joint partnership that we have established not only with libya but also, and mainly, with the un and its agencies, unhcr and iom and with the african union. it is also the result of the work we have initiated, together with our african partners, in the past couple of years following the valetta summit. however, again, we need the member states to put in more money and more resources. we have always been close to the libyan people. i mentioned migration as the last point because i think that our main message today to libya and libyans has to be that our work with them, and for them, has them at the centre. we care about libya not just because it is a crossing point for migrants but for the sake of libya itself, and this is the centre of our work with them. we've always been close to the libyan people, all the libyan people, investing in their healthcare, in basic services, in security and in local governance, and it's even more important to do that now. it is important for libyans. it is important for us europeans because there is no european security and no european stability if there is no security and stability in libya. today it is our collective responsibility to remain a united and strong partner for libya and a united and strong partner for the united nations, as we are the first and most relevant supporter of their crucial work. so i trust, once again, that the positions expressed by parliament will reflect this strong need for the european union to pay attention to libya, first of all as a matter of priority and, secondly, with full unity. (applause from the left)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the debate on libya is always a bit surreal. we pretend libya is a normal state. but there is no state in libya. recent events in tripoli have just shown us that again. militias in the pay of one or another government faction are fighting among themselves for control of the capital. we may even wonder if there is still a government and, more than ever, what it controls. all libyans are paying the price for this lack of statehood, but sub-saharan migrants are particularly affected. there are about 8,000 of them in tripoli, abandoned by everyone, starving, subjected to the worst abuses and the most monstrous trafficking, locked up, shuffled from one detention centre to another as the fighting went on. we wonder where the humanitarian aid is going. the niger road, commissioner, is cut off. european states have not fulfilled their commitments on resettlement. niger does not want any more refugees until the european states have fulfilled their commitments. that is why we are a number of meps from several political groups calling for the evacuation of these migrants from tripoli, the opening of humanitarian corridors and the end of support for the notorious libyan coastguards. the latter take the migrants back to the coast, where they are reportedly registered, but no one knows what happens to them afterwards. we cannot turn a blind eye to these horrors, not to hear the testimony of the survivors. there can be no miraculous elections in such a context. it is a profound disregard for the libyan people and commissioner, you know very well that although the number of crossings is decreasing, the number of deaths is not. there is one death for every 18 crossings today, whereas there was one for every 42 last year, which is not even the highest of the crossings. human lives must be saved, it is your responsibility and you know very well that you cannot expect anything from the member states in this matter.
madam president, libya is in a very serious situation: its government of national unity, recognised by the international community, is unable to maintain order. tripoli has just been ravaged by fighting between two armed groups that are theoretically under its authority. everywhere in libya is occupied by militias, many of them salafists. libya has become both a hotbed for islamist terrorists, a base for migrant smugglers and a dangerous state, seeking to destabilise its neighbours, notably algeria. in such a context, to imagine that elections could be held in december is an illusion. we must return to reality and put pressure on libya to restore a minimum of order to its territory, if necessary by demanding that in return for our financial assistance, a genuine recovery plan be implemented.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, i will do a little teaching. why do i always talk about the havana charter? because my colleagues may not know it, but it predates gatt (general agreement on tariffs and trade) and the wto (world trade organization). the havana charter was the first trade regulation after the war, in 1948, 53 countries agreed. the facts: the united states has a 375 billion dollar deficit with china, and they want to bring it down to 200. europe has had 170 in the last 10 years, almost 1 500 billion. why should we regulate trade? because it means loss of know-how, unemployment, relocation and loss of sovereignty. china should not have joined the wto, but paulson, the chairman of goldman sachs at the time, negotiated in return for the purchase of bonds issued by goldman sachs. it does not apply reciprocity, it has not raised customs duties, thirteen on average: three for europe, thirteen for europe, three in the other direction. she has over 50 reserved areas, we don't. they refuse access to public contracts, we do not. so let's get back to balance, that's what's needed for world trade.
for the greens/efa group madam president, it is excellent news that the european union is updating and improving its rules to fight financial crime more effectively. the regulation will make it easier to detect the entry into and exit from the european union of cash for all amounts above eur 10 000, whether the money is sent by post or carried on one's person, and whether it is a ticket or a prepaid card. these improvements will make it easier to open investigations and better to track financial flows. but our fight against dirty money doesn't stop there. the european union must tackle the problem of golden visas: these programmes allow citizenship to be bought in exchange for financial investments and without any real control over the origin of the money. too many countries in the european union offer these golden visas: greece, portugal, malta and others. the commission promised to respond by the end of the year. time is running out, and i'm asking him to do it as soon as possible.
member of the commission. – madam president, let me start by expressing my thanks to our rapporteur mr corrao and his shadow rapporteurs, as well as the council, for this excellent outcome of the negotiations on our proposal for a directive on countering money laundering by criminal law. mr corrao, i do not see many of your colleagues here tonight in this chamber at this late hour, but as you see there are two commissioners present given the importance of this debate. today we are bringing all our member states up to international standards in the money laundering fight. money laundering, as you all know, is a serious affliction in our economies and in our societies. never far from the news, it is a practice which undermines trust in financial institutions and entire economies. dirty money is unfortunately also a key security concern because laundering is instrumental to the operations of criminal, and even terrorist, groups. terrorist organisations and organised crime need financing to maintain their criminal networks, to recruit and supply, and to commit terrorist acts themselves. money laundering allows criminal organisations to reap fruits from illegal activities and maintain operations. our existing criminal law framework against money laundering in the european union suffers from gaps and loopholes. all member states criminalise money laundering but the differences in how they do this, in the scope and sanctions for money laundering offences, affect in a negative way cross-border police and judicial cooperation. information exchange becomes difficult and criminals slip through the cracks left by divergent national systems. crime, of course, follows the path of least resistance and the criminals do their business where they see anti-money laundering measures to be weakest. the agreement you have reached in the trilogues will remedy these problems. our new rules will reinforce our capacity to tackle organised crime and terrorist financing more effectively by providing police and prosecutors with the tools to crack down on money laundering. first, they will provide minimum common rules on the definition of criminal offences and sanctions relating to money laundering, including profits from all offences defined in eu criminal law. second, they will also provide common provisions to improve investigations of money-laundering related offences. third, a comprehensive definition of money laundering, ranging from conversion and concealment to mere possession or use of criminal property and including self-laundering. fourth, liability and punishment for both natural and legal persons involved in money laundering, and fifth, maximum sanctions for those convicted of money laundering of at least four years imprisonment. this is the european union providing added value to the member states. my thanks once again to mr corrao and his shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work on this initiative.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: madam president, the fight against money laundering requires a comprehensive and coherent legal arsenal. the directive is therefore welcome because it harmonises the definitions and penalties for money laundering offences at european level. it also incorporates international obligations. this will facilitate judicial cooperation and strengthen our fight against financial crime. this is also the view of the european parliament's committee on economic affairs, which delivered its opinion on this proposal for a directive in november 2017, an opinion adopted without any vote against. as rapporteur, i am very pleased to see that many of our recommendations are included in the final text. it was important, for example, to add tax offences to the list of underlying offences in order to also punish money laundering and tax evasion. it was also useful to add the possibility of additional sanctions, such as the prohibition of access to public contracts for a convicted company. i would like to thank all my colleagues for this important work and i call on the member states to apply the european anti-money laundering rules rigorously and without delay.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mr juncker, four years after the establishment of your commission, and just a few months before the european elections, the time has obviously come to take stock, and it is clear that your commission is finally a condensation of all the deviations of the european union and of all that the people can no longer tolerate today. the commission's action is opaque, undemocratic and punitive. obviously, when you decide, it is the prince's decision to appoint mr selmayr as secretary-general of the commission. his majesty jean-claude juncker is free from all the rules in force. it is undemocratic when your commissioner, mr oettinger, says, in a speech of incredible arrogance, and i quote, that the financial markets will teach the italians how to vote properly. and it is also undemocratic when, as recently as now, you say that the budget of the european union will be locked up until 2027 without waiting for the citizens of our peoples to vote in the elections in may 2019. we have also had a punitive attitude towards poland and hungary, and we had a good example of a stalinist trial, just yesterday, simply because these countries have the courage to define what our values of civilisation are and because they refuse the mandatory quotas of migrants that you wanted to impose on them. it is also punitive towards the british, who you want to make pay the price of freedom, by refusing any trade agreement while granting countries that are not in the european union, such as norway or iceland, access to the single market. as you multiply free trade agreements with the whole world, would you deny that to the british? and then, of course, your commission's action has been marked by the acceleration of the abolition of all economic protections. you are deliberately organising unfair competition, inside the european union with seconded work, outside the european union with free trade agreements whose consequences are seriously anti-ecological and which harm our industries and agriculture. this is true of ceta (aecg, global economic and trade agreement), and it is true of future treaties with the mercosur or oceania countries. and just this summer you went to tokyo, without the advice or even the slightest decision of either the european parliament or the national parliaments, to sign a free trade agreement with japan in advance. finally, of course, your commission has been characterized by a crazy migration policy, and our colleague mr legutko has just stressed this - albeit with great restraint - which has not prevented him, moreover, from being subjected to the wrath of mr verhofstadt, who spends his time criticizing and attacking populists or extremists, but who is in this house, with great constancy, the face of hatred, of aggressiveness, of any idea that is different from his own and he has just demonstrated this again. mr avramopoulos, your commissioner, spoke of immigration when setting the framework for your commission, welcoming migrants, i quote, is an economic and social imperative for our ageing continent and you yourself said just now that you wanted to increase the number of legal immigration routes. this is undoubtedly your greatest political fault: that you have encouraged and organized this mass immigration which is weakening our continent and causing suffering to our peoples.
madam president, mr juncker, i do not want to be unfair to you, but many people are very happy with what you are doing. the rich thank you, because your last chance commission will have been a chance for tax evaders; it's been a chance for the lobby, for bayer and monsanto, to continue to poison people for years to come. it will have been a chance for the vultures who have taken over greece and, throughout the european union, for all those who are now taking over the common good. i believe that president macron can also thank you for your encouragement to implement structural reforms: opening up the railway to competition, pension reform now and dismantling workers' rights. president juncker, vice-president timmermans, i regret to tell you that the rich thank you, but the people of europe do not.
madam president, mr juncker, since you are certainly listening to us from where you are, you have rightly mentioned the dramatic consequences of climate change. but on july 26th, when you met with donald trump, you committed the european union to import more roundup-treated gmo soybeans and more shale gas. you are making a commitment on behalf of over 500 million european citizens, without a mandate. without a warrant. you have not heard, mr juncker, the european people's ardent desire to get rid of glyphosate and their ardent desire to fight climate change. at the same time, your commission has abandoned, has removed the anti-dumping duties on chinese photovoltaic panels, handing over our industry, this industry of the 21st century, to the voraciousness of chinese industry. your trade policy, the globalisation that you defend with ceta (comprehensive economic and trade agreement), mercosur and so many others, is the globalisation of junk food, pesticides, animal suffering, deforestation, fossil fuels and climate chaos. so our responsibility, and listen to the european citizens, is to rely on the sun and the wind, not on putin and trump.
madam president, mr president, many people today wanted to take stock of your mandate, but the work does not stop tomorrow morning, especially as the global context is becoming increasingly difficult. the obvious alliances of history are no longer necessarily synonymous with friendship or even solidarity. you yourself are putting together the pieces of our trade relations with the united states. but the easy question, which is asked here by many parliamentarians, is: 'what is europe doing?' what is the commission doing? what are you doing, mr juncker? i would prefer to ask you the question in another way: what are the member states doing? other a year ago, in the state of the union address, you introduced a new word, reciprocity, into the dictionary of the european institutions. it was previously taboo, but your words have given it legitimacy, in the context of this europe which acts and protects. what are the states doing about this concept, which is expected by many businesses and citizens? what do member states do when they are asked to agree on immigration, and the question is: what do you do to make sure they agree when they no longer speak to each other? because some states determine their migration policy according to the arrival of the boats. this is not the serious response our citizens expect. what they're waiting for is for the truth to be told. governments are sometimes unable to find a solution when they are given all the means to find one. the failure of europe is first and foremost the failure of dialogue between states, because as you said earlier, european sovereignty exists thanks to the sovereignty of states, it does not replace nations.
madam president, mr juncker, europe, important as it is, deserves better than a change of time. tax evasion, ceta, selmayr, glyphosate, that's what's left of your tory and liberal presidency. it is a europe that sees populists of all kinds rise, powerless against the rest of the world that you leave us. we were entitled to expect an ambitious european commission, the commission of the last chance - you said - committed, protective, implementing the 17 un sustainable development goals, based on the triptych: economic, social, environmental. we have had a commission which has sacrificed our farmers and our territories on the altar of free trade, which has ignored the question of equality between women and men and which has endangered the health of millions of european citizens by not applying the precautionary principle, whether it be on glyphosate, endocrine disruptors or gmos. and it is not the multiannual financial framework, without vision and without ambition, that you are proposing to us, that will change your balance sheet. we need hope.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, mr juncker, mr timmermans, your mandate is about to end, and it is good for europeans that they will no longer have to endure this juncker-selmayr double-headed presidency. without a profound transformation of the ultra-liberalism of the european union, your commission will continue to cause great damage. everywhere your federalist european union is in denial of reality and in institutional lies. you say you want to strengthen european border guards, but when france was france, the customs officer effectively controlled and secured our national borders. you also want the european union to control the foreign policy of the member states. foreign affairs are the last royal power and bastion of nations. you are full of european solidarity, but for the last 15 years, because of the union's rules, your country has committed the worst acts of tax piracy against its partners. in the luxleaks scandal, your guilt has been proven. stop the disintegration of europe. i am against a frexit, but i am also against your utopia of a united states of europe. europeans no longer want to suffer the planned africanization of europe, islamist terrorism, globalism and the plundering of their taxes by multinationals and gafams (google, amazon, facebook, apple, microsoft). we need a european alliance of independent nations which really protects the peoples. we will!
mr president, i would like to take 30 seconds to talk to you about a value that should not be foreign to you, and i am talking about the duty to intervene. what is it? in any democracy, when a citizen, let alone an elected official, sees that the law is being flouted, he has a duty to intervene and react. that is what i and six other colleagues did when you and your services requisitioned the interpreters, thus flouting all international rights concerning the right to strike. and yet you have decided, you have insisted on punishing us. but our individual case is not very serious; what is serious is that you have trampled on democracy, the rule of law and the values of solidarity that mr juncker spoke of earlier. what is serious and regrettable is that by your punishment you are bringing this institution into disrepute.
mr president, some members are presenting themselves here as self-proclaimed defenders of european values, arbitrarily distinguishing between those who respect them and those who flout them, and condemning all those who do not follow their lead to leave the european union. the europe of nations is reborn, the european union is dissolved. democracy, pluralism, tolerance and freedom are the intangible pillars of our institution. many people recalled this yesterday, before stating that this should not apply to mr orbán, of course. pluralism is good when everyone thinks like you. democracy is good when everyone votes for you. well, no, i won't. it was reminded that the sanction should be directed against the government, not the hungarian people, but it is the hungarian people that you are going to strangle, and this with pressure that you will only release when they vote according to your diktat. if you think viktor orbán does not represent the hungarians, then you are questioning the very essence of democracy. so emmanuel macron does not represent the french, so angela merkel does not represent the germans, and none of the european commissioners appointed by these governments represent the europeans in this respect. let's not vote anymore. what's your name? by triggering article 7, you are sending the worst possible signal to the hungarian people, giving them yet another reason to hate a european union whose values you claim to defend you do not respect.
mr president, i have been in this institution for 30 years and i must say that i am still amazed at what it proposes, and particularly at the extraordinary hypocrisy and good conscience that this debate has revealed. what are the hungarians accused of? for example, they violate academic freedoms because they claim to impose their national standards, including on a foreign university. but when i, the dean of an honorary faculty, a respected academic, was suspended for five years for statements that the supreme court of my country declared to be perfectly lawful and legitimate, the majority of this parliament referred me to the judicial institutions of my country instead of defending me and was condemned for this by the luxembourg court. they are accused of infringing freedom of expression. but there are 1 150 prisoners of expression in germany, under the pretext of denial, prisoners of opinion, including an old woman of 90 years. and that leaves you completely indifferent? the criticism is "hostile and intimidating campaign rhetoric". but what do we hear here? patriots are called populists, family advocates are called homophobes, anti-immigration people are called xenophobes. isn't that hostile, isn't that intimidating?
mr president, it is good for international security that there is an open debate on the subject of killer robots. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-us joint action on lethal weapons and the eu-us joint action on lethal weapons, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-us joint action on lethal weapons and lethal weapons. moreover, these killer robots may become super-advanced and in the future be beyond human control. the idea of an autonomous weapons system convention could be an appropriate response, if it imposed a moratorium or a total ban on signatory states, but this convention would have to include china, the united states, iran, israel and russia, which are not already participating in the osaka anti-personnel mine convention, otherwise it would be useless. whatever the ethical problems involved, there is no question that the lack of military development and intelligence of the european states makes them increasingly dependent on the great powers. although the initial intentions are laudable, it is not at all within the competence of the european union to sign a convention on such a subject. even if we can share the findings on a community basis, the member states still have the right position to adopt on this subject and, from our point of view, we doubt the relevance of a convention on the use of autonomous weapons.
mr president, once again mr brok's report is completely lacking in its purpose, because the problem is not at all to interfere in the internal politics of the united states, as he does and as the amendments that have been tabled and voted on do. the united states has no more business interfering in our affairs than we have in the internal affairs of the united states. the real problem is whether we have not insensibly moved from the status of allies to that of vassals. and we must demand reciprocity and only be interested in international issues. we must therefore seize the opportunity of the trump presidency to rid ourselves of nato, whose existence is no longer justified since the soviet union disappeared and is no longer a threat to us. we must rise up against the incredible plunderings which the american administration or judicial system has carried out against our banks, against our interests, and we must rise up against the unbearable pretence of the united states to impose the universality of its sanctions to the detriment of our companies. the rest is none of our business.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the financing of pensions is above all a speculation, albeit a good one, but a speculation nonetheless. we put as little as possible on the table to touch as much as possible, for as long as possible. thus, no system is satisfactory: neither are public finances, which are always closely linked to unemployment or work, depending on the moment, many of which have been mismanaged, often bordering on scandal, when we look at the general level of pensions in europe; nor is the private sector, since the 2008 crisis showed the seriousness of the malfunctioning of predatory pension funds. so the new world that is opening up, with digitisation, robotization and also economic migration flows, requires us to be very attentive and above all very rigorous. the complementary european system proposed by the commission will unfortunately not be able to benefit the most vulnerable, who would need it most. it may even become a monopoly. so yes, of course, with several pillars of retirement - public, private and personal savings - but always under the strict control and guarantee of the states, because it is not possible to make our pensioners the poor of today and tomorrow.
madam president, i agree with this timely debate: privatisation of pension schemes is not the solution. the question of pension levels is a major issue in most of our economies. we know the imbalances that exist, we know the fragility of our pensioners, whatever the systems in place. we know how much the imbalance between men and women is a cause against women, a cause against those who benefit from atypical employment schemes, against those who are not currently employed. we are in favour of strengthening the first and second pillars of pensions. we are against the development of the pepp as a single financial product. for us, this european pension product must be first and foremost a pension scheme. that is why my group and i have contributed to the idea that, when we talk about this scheme in its basic version, it must be accompanied by a minimum pension outlay of 35% and that, in the case of capital outlay, it cannot, in the basic scheme, exceed 30% of the accumulated amount. that is why we have advocated that the costs and charges on these basic schemes should not exceed 1% of the annual capital accumulated, which we have obtained with the agreement of the rapporteur, and i thank her for that. that is also why we rejected the use of this product as a means of developing a kind of fiscal dumping which would have allowed some to use this product as a financial investment tool and then benefit from a tax regime of their own choice in the countries most favourable to capital accumulators. however, there are still gaps in the proposal and in the mandate of the european parliament. the question, for example, of the definition of capital: is it nominal capital, is it capital after deduction of expenses? that is why my group abstained on this text during the vote in committee. that is why we ask our negotiating team, in the discussions that are to be held with the council, to be vigilant on this point. this product can be useful for pension portability at a time when many people are mobile, have difficulty in effectively transferring their pension and can benefit from such a scheme. we want it to be a retirement product that guarantees new access to people who may be exposed to significant mobility.
madam president, in order to debate the future of pensions, we must also ask the right questions. is the european union not responsible for the privatisation of our social security systems through the austerity measures it imposes on the member states? in france, for example, is the future pension reform, which the government is currently working on, not the result of the european commission's recommendations of 23 may last? in any case, mr macron is zealously implementing these recommendations. pensioners are now suffering the consequences, including the end of the indexation of pensions to inflation, which represents a significant loss of purchasing power for them. the reduction of our public deficit is essential to reduce our dependence on the financial markets, but it must not be at the expense of the pensioners. the current widespread use of the funded pension system will plunge many pensioners into poverty, who will not have been able to save enough during their lifetime. to ensure the sustainability of our pension systems by distribution, we are systematically locked into this infernal triptych: lower pensions, higher contributions and lowering the legal retirement age. we have seen the unbearable fate of the pensioners in greece, because of the austerity imposed by the european union. this dark scenario, we will fight with determination so that it is never applied in france.
madam president, in this europe, brussels decides and the states execute. in france, the pension reform, supposedly wanted by macron but in fact on the orders of brussels, is no exception to the rule. the european semester says 'progressively unify the rules of the different pension schemes', and macron is implementing it. the european commission says 'save five billion by aligning pension schemes': macron is applying and engaging france in a point-based pension reform that will make pensions fall and the big winners will be the markets, banks and insurance companies. this beautiful europe that protects - in reality, this europe protects the rich, and it is always the same story: we take from the people to redistribute to the rich.
madam president, when asked about his future pension, a young european worker does not ask how much it will be, but more importantly whether he will have one. and this fear of the young is not an irrational fear, it is a feeling of legitimate anxiety because the fact of today, as we all know, is alarming. according to the european commission, more than 17 million older people are at risk of poverty or social exclusion in the union today. and in france - i do not choose the example of this country by chance - the most optimistic forecasts do not envisage a return to financial equilibrium before 2036. so this courage, this lack of courage, is the proof today: our leaders have lacked courage. and contrary to what emmanuel macron says, who calls the french, i quote, 'gauls resistant to change', i see precisely the point of being european in being able to draw inspiration from the good practices of other countries. and as regards the retirement age, for example, in france we have opted for 62 years, while in germany, spain and poland it is 67 years and the swedes are soon planning to raise it to 69. yes, in france as elsewhere, given the increase in our life expectancy, which is good news, i say, we can and must work longer. and what is certain is that it is time, throughout europe, for retirement to become the just reward for a working life, and not just a variable for budgetary adjustment by leaders who are clearly lacking in courage.
i shall now turn to my colleague mr liberadzki, not without once again wishing him a very happy birthday.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the presentation by the council of its position on the draft general budget for the financial year 2019 (2018/2737 ((rsp)). we shall now begin this debate, but i would like to inform you that there will be no speeches on demand or blue cards.
president of the committee on budgets madam president, mr minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the cuts made by the council in the 2019 draft budget, the technocratic, bureaucratic phase is over, the one in which the representatives of the national ministries, ministries of budgets or finance work, without clear political instruction. thus ends a ritual exercise of the rabbit. what i'm seeing is that, year by year, the global cut is getting bigger: 1.2 billion in 2018, 1.55 billion in 2019. by amplifying - we have heard your message, mr minister - the margins available, the council gives the impression that it is trying to protect itself, showing a kind of frivolity, turning the budget of the european union into a budgetary rescue wheel, as it does for the financing of the reception of syrian refugees in turkey. the bureaucratic arbitrariness phase must give way to the vision and political commitment phase. on the eve of the european elections, we must deliver a clear and voluntary message to the european citizens. let us respond to their impatience by supporting a europe that speaks to them, a europe that prepares their future, a europe that protects them. accepting an increase in margins for contingencies would be to renounce action and show our inability to decide. the last budget of the legislature must convey a clear message, a message of promise. preparing for the future means making research a priority and equipping our researchers and laboratories with the tools they expect. for example, in a crucial area such as digital technology, can we resign ourselves to the fact that the global giants are american or chinese and not european? preparing for the future also means investing in education and vocational training, and offering young people the opportunity to experience european diversity through erasmus grants. i have heard your observation, mr minister, that there is progress. but you should know that despite this progress, erasmus is frustrating, with almost one in two eligible applications rejected each year. protecting europeans means taking the migration challenges seriously and having more means to control our external borders and implement a new partnership with african countries, whose population will double by 2050 - president juncker reminded this house this morning - and establishing constructive relations with neighbouring countries, the balkans and the middle east. protecting europeans means giving substance to structured cooperation in defence and security, and the fight against global terrorism. in two weeks' time, informed by our rapporteur general daniele viotti and by paul rubig, the committee on budgets will vote on its own version of the 2019 budget. then we will have the plenary session here in strasbourg at the end of october and we will begin the conciliation procedure. i would like to thank the austrian presidency in advance, mr minister, for your presence and your commitment, which i have no doubt. i thank you and commissioner oettinger, who has had to leave us, for your understanding and for the help you will be able to give us. in conclusion, i would like to express my strong hope that the 2019 budget will not simply be a continuation of previous budgets, with a new boost in commitment and payment appropriations. the time has come to identify the european commons, that is, the sovereign prerogatives that states can no longer exercise alone because of the challenges posed by globalisation, whether climate, defence, migration, space, terrorism, digital technology or artificial intelligence. may we convince our heads of state and government that the funds which have become ineffective when committed at national level must now be transferred to the budget of the european union so that they can be spent more effectively. this would demonstrate what european added value can be. in other words, the budget of the european union would increase without, however, public spending in europe increasing. europe is in crisis, europe is in danger. we were elected to restore confidence and confidence to all europeans. the budget calls on us, ladies and gentlemen, to put our words into action.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by cornelia ernst, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the union institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and on the free movement of such data, and repealing regulation (ec) no 45/2001 and decision no 1247/2002/ec (com2017) 0008 - c8-0008/2017 - 2017/0002 (cod)) (a8-0313/2017).
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this proposal for a regulation is of great interest. it transposes the application of the famous gdpr, the general data protection regulation, to the institutions of the european union. this is a good thing, because the eu institutions must set an example and accept to apply these rules to themselves. this is precisely the purpose of this text: to oblige the eu institutions to respect the indispensable protection of individuals' personal data, in the same way as the member states. i regret that the commission has tried to grant itself a derogation and i commend the ernst report for having succeeded in thwarting its attempt to put itself, in a way, above european law.
mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, the accumulation of plastic in the environment, particularly in the oceans, has become unbearable. this is why the european plastics strategy is indispensable. the decision by china to ban imports of european plastic waste offers us an opportunity to create the conditions for a genuine internal market for recycled materials. but the problem is recycling. the obstacles to better recycling are mainly technical and economic. i am thinking in particular of the cost gap between virgin plastics and recycled plastics. it is important to support not only local authorities but also businesses in making the necessary investments, and this, no doubt, through concrete legislative measures. i have noted the desire to put a price on non-recyclable. i think this is particularly important. so we have several actions to take: action on the design and composition of plastics: we have spoken about dangerous substances; action on collection and recycling, i have just spoken about it, there is a lot to be done in the member states; action on consumers, to learn responsible and ecological behaviour; action to classify materials; the commission has also taken action to ensure the quality of recycling, because it is clear that recycled plastics still have a very bad reputation and that there is a need to raise awareness among citizens about the more responsible use of plastics and to improve the quality of recycled plastics. this is a prerequisite for making them more attractive to consumers. i think the world needs to reinvent itself and i imagine we can have a new secondary resource industry.
mr president, between the beginning and the end of my speech, an additional 45 tons of plastic will end up in the oceans. as you know, over 13 million tons of waste is dumped into our seas every year. the european commission's proposal is a drop in the bucket. we are not going to solve the problem by banning cotton buds, cutlery, plates, straws and mixing sticks for drinks and balloon buds. no, the culprits are not our european citizens who throw their packets of chips into recycling bins, and we must stop the industry and the plastic packaging lobby from making consumers feel guilty. we must stop with this neo-liberal logic, which we know all too well in france, which is to say that pollution is the fault of the consumer, the financial crisis is the fault of households and unemployment is the fault of the unemployed. the european union must take responsibility and tackle the real polluters of the planet: the industrial giants. do you really think that a company like coca cola doesn't have the means to change the business model to produce less plastic? we urgently need to engage in a marshall plan for the oceans, based on the polluter-pays principle, to regulate in a strict and non-negotiable way the production, use, sale, import and recycling of plastic products. finally, i propose that the new european solidarity corps, which we set up yesterday, be open to projects based on waste collection. i'm sorry i went over five tons.
mr president, better management of plastics is an absolute emergency when we know that more than 150 million tonnes of plastics are estimated to be in the oceans. i am pleasantly surprised to see my colleagues tackling this issue today. for the record, in a resolution tabled in january 2017, i proposed that parliament urgently call on the european commission to support all serious projects to develop ships that will remove plastics from the oceans. indeed, several very innovative projects have emerged for this purpose and are only waiting to be supported. unfortunately, the main political groups did not consider it necessary to follow up my proposal. so yes, we can talk for hours about the urgency of action, but what are we waiting for before we take action? we are running out of time before the oceans become a giant garbage dump and the situation becomes unmanageable.
madam president, we are talking about a real ecological disaster, because almost half of the 10 billion tonnes of plastic produced have ended up in nature and on the ocean floor. we have to keep in mind that by 2050, with the increase in population, 28.7 billion tonnes of plastic will be generated, that is, almost three times as much as all the plastic produced so far. this is the scale of the challenge ahead of us. we should be ashamed of ourselves for turning our oceans into garbage cans. if we do nothing, tomorrow we will no longer be talking about the 'seventh plastic continent' but about a 'plastic planet'. this is why ambitious measures, radical measures, are needed. i want to end with a word about cigarette butts. people don't realize that when they smoke a cigarette, they're smoking plastic. we must therefore ask the manufacturers to change the composition of cigarette butts, because cigarette butts are a real scourge for the environment.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this report on the european action plan to combat antimicrobial resistance clearly highlights the various aspects that are at the root of antimicrobial resistance, and the major severity of the latter, which is the cause of several thousand deaths every year in europe. it covers both human and animal antimicrobial resistance. it discusses ways of improving the use of antibiotics in human pathology and in livestock farming. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the matter. however, it does not point the finger at the persistent deviations from the free movement of people, especially when it comes to irregular immigration, without sanitary controls or compliance with hygiene rules. and this of course applies to particularly multidrug-resistant forms of tb. nor does it point the finger at the free movement of goods in trade in meat and agri-food products from countries which do not respect european standards, and this within the framework of official treaties with europe. antibiotics are used to prevent disease in livestock, but mainly to speed up the growth of animals. this ultimately leads to contamination of the entire food chain. so it should be banned. we therefore strongly urge the european union to be consistent with the facts, by encouraging good practice, but above all by controlling its borders and revising its treaties.
mr president, commissioner, today 700 000 people worldwide die every year from antimicrobial resistant infections. eventually, by 2050, an additional 10 million people a year could die from this antimicrobial resistance. action is therefore urgent. i welcome the excellent report by my colleague karin kadenbach, and particularly paragraphs 27, 104 and 105, in which she encourages the adoption of innovative measures to combat the spread of infectious diseases. on one of my trips to my constituency in france, i had the opportunity to discover one of these innovative tools. these are steriall antimicrobial parts, manufactured on a copper basis by the lebronze alloys group. copper is 100% natural and sustainable, and has antimicrobial efficacy. by providing antimicrobial door handles, push plates and alloy accessories to schools, day care centres, hospitals and nursing homes, we can effectively combat the spread of bacteria and viruses in these environments. these copper parts, i think, could be a key tool in antimicrobial resistance. that is why, commissioner, i invite you to take part in a conference at the european parliament information office in paris on the preventive tools to be developed against this antimicrobial resistance.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the creation of a single digital portal managed by the commission would enable users to obtain all the information, support and services they need to carry out their activities effectively across borders. member states will have to ensure that all administrative services defined by the text are available fully online, without discrimination, in at least one foreign language, and provide the links and information to the commission. this digital one-stop shop sounds like a good idea. but to whom is this text addressed? in theory, all of them. in reality, it is aimed at the proportion of european union nationals who wish to exploit the sacred principle of freedom of movement. the studies are formal and the figures are unfortunately cruel: it appears that the proportion of nationals affected by the application of this regulation does not even exceed 5% of the total population of the european union. the efforts made to make life easier for these poor people are honourable, but it would be more urgent to take care of the remaining 95%, who expect and demand something else from their political leaders. the challenges we face are immense, the stakes are high and our action does not live up to the expectations of our citizens, who suffer more from these fanciful regulations than they benefit from them. such texts seem perfectly incidental to our electorate and, because of the complexity of their implementation, risk being even more ineffective.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, commissioner, if this report is globally relevant, i am surprised that it welcomes, and i quote: the fact that the commission has come to the conclusion that the european food safety authority (efsa) has been highly transparent and has shared data within the limits of strict confidentiality rules. i am also surprised that the text welcomes, i quote: 'efsa's continuous efforts to improve its system to ensure its independence and the management of potential conflicts of interest'. as coordinator for my group in the pest (pesticide authorization procedure) select committee, i did not feel the same way about efsa, which is still at the heart of the glyphosate controversy. if efsa copied and pasted a hundred pages of industry into this report and if parliament set up a special committee on the pesticide authorisation procedure, let us remember that there must have been reasons.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the various environmental scandals and the hesitation and reversal of the european union's position on plant protection products and plant protection products such as glyphosate show that the texts, even if they are european, are designed to be circumvented and are therefore ineffective. the evaluation of the directive under way shows how much the weight of lobbies is against europeans and how weak our institutions are. it is clear that all the conflicting studies undermine the credibility of the official bodies and at the same time member states are held back when they want to apply the precautionary principle and substitution. we must therefore apply the principles of independence and transparency as soon as possible to ensure our health and food security. the commission's ability to improve the situation, not with words and incantations but with firm decisions, is seriously undermined today. the commission must also be as transparent and independent as the council.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report on the implementation of the regulation on plant protection products comes at a time when the issue of pesticides is at the heart of the debate in europe. citizens are becoming more careful about what they put on their plates, and rightly so. in fact, some european retailers have followed suit and started to remove controversial plant protection products from their shelves. as parliamentarians, our role is not to give in to sirens. we must remain pragmatic, vigilant and show a balanced path. it is our duty to ensure that the approval procedures for plant protection products are clear and transparent. citizens have the right to know what they are eating and they must be reassured about the food they are consuming. in this sense, i would like to point out a european anomaly: we cannot import products grown in third countries with substances that are banned here in europe. we cannot force our farmers and consumers to be the best students in the class while importing products that do not meet our standards and standards. this is the best way to condemn our agriculture. we must move towards a more environmentally friendly agriculture and a more profitable one for farmers. this is the message i am bringing to this parliament about the dual environmental and economic performance of european agriculture.
mr president, 'we want poppies' is the movement that was launched yesterday in france by personalities, scientists, artists and citizens. what do they want? they are calling for an immediate ban on all synthetic pesticides. it is a call from humans to other humans. we have an obligation to move forward together, in the interests of the 500 million european citizens, but also and above all - i would like to say - of our farmers, who are the first victims of pesticides, but who demand the same rules for everyone in the internal market. we must act responsibly, but there is urgency, and we know it. we cannot pretend that there are no problems of fertility, of early puberty, that 80 percent of insects or 30 percent of our birds have not disappeared and that pollinators are not in danger of dying. the european commission, commissioner, must apply, as we know, the precautionary principle as laid down in article 191 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i therefore hope that in its future proposals the european executive will take account of our recommendations here, and that our committee of inquiry into pesticides, which will be reporting at the end of this year, will do the same. i should like to pay special tribute to my colleague, mr pavel poc, for this excellent report, which is the result of his genuine commitment to this subject over the past few years.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the studies cited to explain the differences in the quality of products within the internal market are insufficient to justify the adoption of this text. we must be more cautious in our conclusions, because the adaptation of products to the market respects mechanisms which are naturally beyond the reach of the legislators. i understand the clear desire expressed here to want to standardize and centralize control procedures at the commission level again. but the proposed level of control seems disproportionate. the local level seems to be much more appropriate in this case. local or national particularities must be taken into account, whether in the mechanism for price formation, the standards or production standards to be respected, or the requirements of consumers, whether in terms of their standard of living or even the tastes of the local population. it would be good to put an end to this excessive centralisation within the european union, not to infantilize consumers and to respect the freedom of producers.
mr president, there are not four europe. one that they want to go north, one that they want to go south, one that they want to go west and one that they want to go west. there is one europe, one internal market and the same rules must apply to everyone. there are no second or first-class europeans: we are all europeans and we all have the right to the same protection, especially when it comes to foodstuffs and therefore to human health. the health of a european is no less important in the west than in the west, north or south. the existence of disparities between products marketed and distributed in the single market under the same brand name and packaging is unacceptable. in the face of this scandal, it is imperative that the national authorities of the 28 and the european commission coordinate for better cross-border cooperation and more efficient data sharing on these products. it is essential to combat the double standard of quality within the european area. i ask you, commissioner, to assess the seriousness of the problem - and i know you do - by completing your communication of last april and publishing the results by the end of this year at the latest.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the trial of several ugandan opponents in military courts raises a fundamental question of the rule of law. we think it would be more acceptable than if they had committed a crime, to have them brought before a civil court. similarly, opposition parliamentarians were arrested and even tortured during the election campaign. these outrageous acts are unacceptable. but is the european parliament really in a position to give lessons on the rule of law at this moment, when hungary, whose sovereign people have wrested their freedom from communist totalitarianism at great cost, has been the victim, this week, right here in our own country, of a real attack on its sovereignty? when poland is being pointed at by the leaders in brussels, who derive their legitimacy from nowhere but from the close associates of soros and his cronies? when the austrian, italian, czech and slovak peoples are accused of having just elected their leaders in the most democratic way? so let us talk about uganda, but let us start by respecting the only democracy that counts, the one based on the votes of the peoples in the european countries and respect for their sovereignty.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, madam high representative, from debate to debate, we have the impression that the situation in myanmar is deteriorating. now it is the journalists who are persecuted, condemned, imprisoned for reporting what is happening there, for witnessing the endless cruelty of the burmese regime and for continuing to witness the ethnic cleansing of the rohingya which the un says is genocide. we therefore call once again for sanctions and for an international inquiry to be launched as a matter of urgency. we also call on the un security council to bring those responsible to international justice. there's nothing worse than getting used to the horror. and i fear, sometimes, that our eyes will eventually become accustomed to the horrors committed in burma for too many years already.
author. mr president, as we feared, the parliamentary elections last july saw the majority party win all the seats. that is to say the state of the regression of freedoms in this country, its de facto transformation into a one-party system, the suppression of freedom of the press, the imprisonment of political opponents and the dissolution of the main opposition party. the release of kem sokha, who has been imprisoned for a year, is therefore good news, even though his release remains very conditional, his freedom remains very limited and the number of those who are still in prison, suffering from restrictions of freedom and intimidation, is still as high. i would like to stress, however, the situation of trade unionists and those who are fighting against the land grabbing, which is going beyond all limits in this country, mainly for the benefit of the sugar industry, including the european one. thousands of people are ruined and/or displaced for the greater benefit of the country's rulers. we must not be silent about this either. human rights are indivisible and i would like to know your views on this very point, madam high representative.
mr president, this is both a point of order and a protest. at the last part-session we dealt with the question of human rights, as we always do, and i would like to speak to you, on the basis of the rules of procedure and the texts adopted by our assembly, about the question of human rights in the european parliament. all the texts agree that before a decision against someone is taken, that person must be heard. i would like to quote article 41 of the european charter of fundamental rights and article 68 of the implementing measures to the statute, which states that any decision on recovery is taken only after the member concerned has been heard by the secretary-general. the secretary general has robbed me of 300,000 euros and he refused to listen to me! ladies and gentlemen, we voted for a european code of good administrative behaviour which says that in cases where a decision affects an individual - and we are also citizens - it is necessary to allow him to submit not only written comments but also - and i quote: - oral comments if necessary. i was denied that right. it also follows from a resolution of our parliament of 9 june 2016. mr president, the legal advisers of parliament who are under your orders or under the orders of the secretary-general, mr welle, are at this moment trying to refute my legitimate claim before the luxembourg court, at least to be heard! they try to downplay the importance of these resolutions, to say that they are not binding. ladies and gentlemen, whatever our differences of opinion, what is happening today could happen to others and i will tell you, mr president, about the situation of my assistant. there is a real miscarriage of justice! i have the text which i will give tomorrow at the press conference. your administration has falsely and deceitfully led the european court of justice in luxembourg to believe that parliament had no judicial claim against my assistant. mr klethi, the director-general for finance, appeared directly before the french court to plead a criminal complaint against him.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, in recent years the united states has imposed numerous embargoes on various countries, such as sudan, cuba, libya and iran. european companies have been hit hard in this context. for example, in 2015, the french bank bnp paribas was ordered by the us courts to pay nearly $9 billion in fines. this year, however, the united states has done it again: it has imposed a new embargo on iran, claiming to give it an extraterritoriality effect. the european union has indeed tried to respond, notably through the commission delegated regulation of 6 june 2018, which denounces this flagrant violation of international law. nevertheless, the problems for our european companies continue. for example, the french bank societe generale has just announced that it will pay a fine of €1 billion for daring to breach the embargo against iran. the problem is not solved and i think the last thing we can do in relation to our european companies in difficulty is to organise a debate here in this parliament.
mr president, as i have always done, i am very clear that i am defending the rights of all members. i defended the rights of mr krivine, our former colleague from the far left, whom i had found wreaking havoc at my university with iron bars, but whom i regretted, however, that as a member of parliament he was not admitted to the delegation of this parliament responsible for relations with the united states. i am against violence and i condemn any violence, from whatever source, to which my colleagues may have been subjected. but i think that what is needed is to open a debate on political violence in general, because our colleague has shared his experience with us, but i could share mine. at virtually all the public meetings i have organised, physical attacks have been committed by left-wing or far-left activists disguised as alleged anti-fascists, whereas i have never had any particular sympathy for this political family and have never had the right to the solidarity of parliament. i therefore think that we cannot vote for the organisation of a debate which already includes in its title what the necessary conclusion would be. let us open a debate, but on political violence in general within the european union.
mr president, i have a comment. in this minutes we adopted a number of texts, including on human rights in burma, for example, and on human rights in the bedouin village mentioned earlier, and in other places. i would like our parliament to be able to debate human rights in the european parliament one day.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, after the creation of the european medicines agency and the centralised authorisation procedure, which have proved their worth, we are entering a new stage which i believe is essential in the construction of the europe of medicines. i take this opportunity to congratulate our rapporteur, mrs cabezón ruiz, on her work, which has been carried out in a truly collective way. i would remind you that the european treaties require europe to ensure equal access to quality health care for all, and it is indeed important to demonstrate the added value of the european union in the field of health. i could even say that the future of health, in my view, will be european or not. how can we understand that the clinical added value of a medicine authorised throughout europe differs from one country to another? how can we explain to patients that the same treatment is considered innovative, useful and highly effective on one side of the border, while it is considered to have less added value in another member state? how can we tell a patient that he has to wait for this new medicine which is already available in the neighbouring country? make no mistake, we are not talking about a decision on the price or reimbursement of the medicine, all this is a matter of national context. the aim is to jointly conduct a scientific evaluation of the therapeutic added value of a new technology compared to existing alternatives. this work will help to promote high value-added treatments and accelerate patients' access to medical innovations. as the commissioner pointed out, the national health authorities with expertise will of course remain responsible, but they must learn to work together and that is why we wanted to strengthen the collegial nature of the work. finally, a word on medical devices. this sector includes many small and medium-sized enterprises which are already facing major regulatory upheavals. we must avoid a too drastic impact on this changing sector and that is why we have decided to narrow the scope a bit. all this will be a success if we can overcome the reluctance of the member states. i am sure that they will be keen to defend patients and thus allow for greater european solidarity in health matters: this can only be beneficial for patients.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, this report on the regulation on the evaluation of health technologies aims to synthesise information on the medical, social, economic and ethical issues related to the use of new technologies. this is understandable, of course, and it is clear that it is better to anticipate any drift and, as far as possible, to use these innovative advances to the best of their objectives. unfortunately, this approach has already been applied in france with regard to medicines. these were evaluated over a decade of medical services, and the result was not long in coming! many old generic, inexpensive and proven medicines have been discarded, of course because they were not profitable. the french pharmacopoeia thus found itself cut off from real little treasures. the labs that made them have also disappeared. only the economic factor prevailed. tomorrow, in the context of the evaluation of medicines at european level, but also of medical devices, ranging from sparadrap to extracorporeal circulation apparatus, but also of all clinical and paraclinical techniques, it will be all carers who will be monitored, invalidated or even banned, because it is very likely that independence and transparency will be subject to caution. so we believe there is a great danger that economic interests alone will determine health in europe. this is, of course, fundamentally unacceptable. this is true for patients, carers and innovative businesses alike. finally, and most importantly, the sovereignty of the member states must continue to prevail in the decisions. that is why we have tabled a minority opinion in committee and why we will oppose this report.
mr president, commissioner, i also thank mrs cabezón ruiz for the work she has done. of course, the health of our fellow citizens is non-negotiable. the fight against unreasonable increases in drug prices and antimicrobial resistance is a necessity. of course, the idea of a common clinical assessment of health technologies at european level can only be welcomed. however, common safety issues in the field of public health are only a shared competence, and exclusively for the aspects defined in the tfeu. the report itself acknowledges that the commission's proposal is i quote a step forward in the construction of the union. but can we honestly put these policies under the aegis of the european commission, when we know how much our health is directly threatened by the widespread use of pesticides, agricultural productivism imposed by the cap and free trade agreements? yes to cooperation between states, and not just the 27 of the european union.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, chechnya is accused of kidnapping, torturing and killing homosexuals. this information has given rise to two types of reactions. vladimir putin has called for a criminal investigation, which is still ongoing, following the chechen authorities' denial. in addition, many european political parties represented here have expressed their moral and political condemnation in this context. in the light of the above, it seems necessary and wise to await the results of the investigation before drawing any conclusions. let's let the justice system do its job. violence, torture and murder are intolerable acts which must of course be condemned if the facts are established. but please, avoid the caricature. do not treat this honorable assembly as the prosecutor of good judgment. it is counterproductive and quite arrogant in form. you are calling for measures to be taken by the european commission, but you are simply forgetting that the european commission has no competence in matters of diplomacy and that it is better that it never has any. the moral lessons you keep on teaching the world are becoming particularly embarrassing to a growing number of europeans who would like you to look a little more closely at what is happening at home. these requirements are not so far-fetched since we are all chosen by them. your concern about the plight of lgbt people in chechnya is very generous, but your generosity should be directed first and foremost to european citizens, and especially women, who are increasingly suffering violence. who cares about the fate of these young english women who were subjected to sexual slavery by a gang of barbaric pakistanis? who was outraged by the deaths of laura and mauranne, murdered by an islamist in marseille just a year ago? who cares about the anti-white racism that is swelling in our societies? the countless assaults that women are subjected to every day in our cities are unbearable and should move your beautiful, caring souls. the intensity of your reactions to these alleged attacks in chechnya merely highlights the deafening silence with which you are systematically guilty when it comes to defending our people.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, mr vice-president, with regard to accounting standard 17, this parliament calls for your vigilance. we're talking about experience here. when we adopted the equivalent accounting standard for banking, the famous ifrs 9, we finally discovered - nine months after the entry into force of this standard, thanks to a study by the european systemic risk committee - that our intuition, our view that the introduction of such a standard might weaken long-term investment, was well founded. we call for the same vigilance in the insurance sector and therefore ask that the introduction of an accounting standard, this time ifrs 17, not be repeated, which would also risk undermining the long-term investment that we know the european economy so badly needs. we must draw another lesson from the experience of insurance companies through the implementation of the solvency ii directive. everyone agrees that this is useful legislation today, adapted to the insurance business, but it could only come into force through a long iterative process. the more i consider the concerns about the ifrs 17 accounting standard for insurance, the more i see the importance of the question of the timing of implementation beyond a few adjustments that may require the international authority, the iasb, to revise its copy. to do this, the commission must take full account of the resolution we are going to adopt next wednesday, but also of the fact that efrag is working under the informed authority of its president. allow me, mr vice-president, to draw your attention to a key point both in the oral question we are asking and in the draft resolution we are - i hope - going to vote on: to verify that at least this accounting standard contributes, of course, to financial stability and the competitiveness of the insurance sector, but also to cross-cutting objectives which the european union must now pursue in each of its legislation, that is to say that this standard contributes to the definition of the public good, to the sustainability of our economies, to long-term investment and to the achievement of our climate change objectives.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, commissioner, distributed ledgers and blockchain are promising technologies that could change the way we use ledgers and their data. however, your enthusiasm and the sudden enthusiasm of the european institutions give the impression of an irrational rush of new discoveries. so i would urge you to be more careful and more self-controlled. many parliamentarians only see the positive sides of this technology, without seeing its limitations, especially with regard to blockchains because the real revolution in the field of registries is indeed the use of blockchains. these allow the register to be certified and to avoid having to go through intermediaries to access it. however, this technology is not without its critics. thus, the use of proof of work in the mining process involves consuming a gigantic amount of resources for very little real utility. bitcoin mining alone consumes as much energy as austria, so imagine if you had to mine hundreds of other ledgers! the size of the registers is bound to become exponential and will require users, or 'miners', to have enormous technical resources to make the system work. this also raises the problem of the data retention time: can a blockchain retain data indefinitely without using a centralized archiving registry? the independence of miners is also a constraint because blockchains can only be certified if the majority of miners do not form a cartel. how can we control it? finally, the number of miners today is large and allows this technology to work, thanks to the payment of miners through cryptocurrencies. how will miners be paid for public services? many other examples could demonstrate that the technology of distributed ledgers, and especially of the blockchain, is still immature. until the problems of energy efficiency and an effective alternative to proof-of-work have been solved, it will be foolhardy to try to decline these technologies to all sections of society. what we are advocating is therefore to invest in research, as always and as proposed, and to let the member states legislate on their territory. let's give researchers and time the privilege of demonstrating that these technologies can revolutionize our world.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, i am particularly and personally sensitive to the support that can be given to farmers affected by compensatory allowances for natural handicaps. in france, more than 60 000 farms are covered by this scheme. to quote my own region of new aquitaine, one third of the area of the creuse, two thirds of that of the corrèze and half of that of the pyrenees-atlantiques are affected. i do not deny that the report in question is trying to highlight a key issue in the agricultural sector and, more generally, in the protection of our lands, but the farmers concerned also suffer from major handicaps which are not caused by the natural environment but by the european union. after forcing member countries to dismantle public services in the most fragile areas, after destroying the profitability of the vast majority of european farms by deregulating the markets for raw materials, after imposing deadly free trade agreements in the midst of the agricultural crisis, the european commission is now trying to impose an unprecedented reduction in cap aid paid to farmers. it is using such measures to explain that the european union is acting in favour of the territories it has ultimately ruined. it is cutting billions of aid on the one hand and giving away a few additional rural development programmes on the other. so, to take an interest in farmers in specific natural areas, yes, of course, but not without completely changing the software and ending the deadly policy of the european commission.
madam president, i am from the pyrenees, where i still live. i want to say this because for me and for many others, including young people, the mountain is a life choice. but today we are seeing more and more breaches of equality in employment and in access to care, in what is called positive mobility, in digital, and increasingly in school, leisure or culture. i do not think that this is inevitable, but it is, in the end, the price to be paid for years of austerity policy, competition between the territories, and deep cuts in the budgets of public services, as the future multiannual financial framework for cohesion or the cap proves, or rather attests. i believe that what is needed now is a change of programme, but above all a change of logic so that the mountainous and isolated rural areas are not relegated territories and their populations are not citizens. the european union must make it a priority. in my region, we speak of a 'mountain exception': priority in its cohesion policy in terms of resources, priority in terms of support for local employment and, as my colleagues have said, priority in terms of equal rights.
madam president, madam commissioner, it is indeed a duty to look after these areas, which the treaty of lisbon has brought together in one article. i shall speak more particularly of the mountain areas. for some of our citizens, the mountains are a snowfield, a tourist area, but the reality of the mountains for those who live there is very different. many people have mentioned the ageing of the population here. i would like to stress the additional cost of the altitude alone. building a building, building equipment, involves significant additional costs because of the cold and snow, and it is through investments that will have an economic impact that we will guarantee the future of mountain areas. it is not a question of granting any operating aid, but of avoiding a new rupture with the mountain areas we need. we need them to be alive and well because they preserve the environment and because they protect the areas that are down there. without a well-maintained mountain, life will be impossible down in the valleys.
i have received, in accordance with rule 123 (2), a motion for a resolution to wind up this debate. the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 3 october 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 163).
madam president, indonesia was struck by a tsunami on 28 september which killed more than 1 200 people. whole cities were destroyed. in the face of the scale of the disaster, international solidarity must be organized. european countries such as france have already offered to help. i am pleased that the european union has also stepped in and provided €1.5 million in humanitarian aid. the european parliament itself expressed its sympathy for the victims by observing a minute's silence. this should remind us of two things. the first is that the european union will only survive if it is transformed into a europe of nations, with respect for states and peoples, rather than the jungle of ultra-liberal globalism. the second is that climate disasters like the one that just hit indonesia will increase. in addition to humanitarian considerations, it is in europe's interest to help the states that will be victims to avoid another flood of migration, this time climate.
madam president, i want to deal this evening with the question of chlordecone, the pesticide which was used to kill the banana weevil and which was recognised as carcinogenic by the who in 1979, but which was used in the french west indies until 1993. it is a state scandal for france, but it has become a real world problem, as it is true that, like glyphosate or asbestos, this product remains present in the soil and in the water. it also remains in fish, shellfish, molluscs and other sea and freshwater products. it has become a global problem because it has been used in south america, in addition to the french west indies, but also in africa, and we import here in europe many of these products which still contain this type of molecule. there is an urgent need to review european legislation to lower maximum levels of pesticide residues in the food we eat. i am calling on the european commission to do so urgently, because the health of 500 million europeans is at stake.
madam president, it is one year since the free trade agreement between canada and the european union entered into provisional force. what do we find? on our plates, it's the arrival of gmo rapeseed, gm salmon, cereals produced with l-atrazine, a herbicide banned in europe because it's considered carcinogenic, but allowed in canada like 41 other pesticides. does the commission have any objections to this? no, she's still going and signing. this summer, it signed a new large-scale trade agreement with japan. a few days ago, it decided to significantly increase import quotas for us beef, in a context of cuts in the cap budget and the harassment of farmers. the lack of transparency in the negotiations, social and ecological denial, the total absence of food democracy, exceptional justice for multinationals... we must really hear the people's opposition to free trade.
mr. popa, could you put your headphones on, please? i would just like to point out that the rule would be that, in a plenary debate on a situation, one-minute speeches would not deal with that subject. i'll tell you, i let you talk, but as a rule, this is not the way to go.
ladies and gentlemen, we are finished.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the european council in october will focus on migration. this is good, because nothing is more serious than the flood of migration that europe has been experiencing since 2015. and the hardest part is yet to come, because africa will double its population by 2050, which could lead to an additional influx of economic migrants, not to mention climate change, which could exacerbate the phenomenon. in the face of this challenge, the european union is unfortunately adopting a contradictory position, showing firmness of intent but weakness in action. in its speeches, the union announced its intention to stop the flood of migration, in particular through cooperation agreements with turkey and other countries. we would like to believe it, but the catastrophic content of the agreement concluded in 2015 with turkey shows that it is incapable of defending european interests. in comparison, italy has done much better in defending its interests and, therefore, our interests by negotiating directly with the libyan authorities. worse still, the union is ruining the very efforts it claims to be making by trying to impose its insane policy of relocating migrants on european states. it is a great appeal to the millions of foreigners who dream of coming to europe and to the irresponsible ngos who want to bring them. fortunately, courageous states like hungary and poland have resisted. with their firmness, these two states show us the only way forward if we want to save the identity of the peoples of europe. to stop mass immigration, we need to help africa. re-admission agreements are also necessary, but the key is to give a strong signal by refusing relocations.
mr president, my point of order is based on rules 166 and 167. we have just heard a number of sanctions against our colleagues on the left. it may seem strange that i'm defending their rights. i consider it extremely important that before a member is sanctioned, he is personally heard by the president and that the same applies to the exercise of internal remedies. it is quite abnormal, if not scandalous, that in a parliament such as ours, this right to be heard, which is provided for in the texts we have voted on, namely the european charter of fundamental rights and the text on good european administration, is explicitly stated, perhaps in writing but also verbally, and is attended by the person of his choice, such as...
mr president, since it is i who am concerned in this case - but not only i, since there are seven of us who have been sanctioned - i simply wanted to inform this institution that i accept with honour a decision which is disgraceful to the european parliament. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that the european union has acquired international legal personality by the treaty of lisbon. it was as if by a coup d'état against the vote of the french and dutch peoples that this personality was conferred upon him. the european union therefore has no place at the un negotiating table. corporate social and environmental responsibility is an important un topic. it may seem inadequate, but what can replace it? in fact, the abuses, the scandalous practices, the crimes are linked to the practice of globalisation without rules, free trade without protection, to this intrinsic logic of the european union, with its treaties on the open single market. we denounce the effects, we adore the causes... moreover, this regulation would give you a right of interference which you would use to condemn our european states, our european companies, while you would accept the practices of china or turkey.
mr president, the decision by the united states to withdraw from funding unrwa is a new and political fact. palestinian refugees have rights under international conventions: they must be guaranteed, but not at any price. their lot will only really improve when a final two-state solution is agreed between israelis and palestinians. in this context, these refugees could even benefit from a right of return. but we must not be naive. the european union as a perpetual funder is far from our view; we believe that this issue must remain the core competence of the united nations. let us not forget that these camps are infested with propaganda and islamist groups, especially in lebanon, where the army has recently made arrests. the greatest vigilance is therefore required. before opening the floodgates to funding, i would urge european leaders to think very seriously about where any additional funds are going to go and, of course, to finance other priorities.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, the dirty war in yemen is one of the tragic aspects of a middle east in the grip of a dynamic of chaos largely fomented by the western powers. it is not our place to take sides in this conflict between yemeni tribes for political, historical or religious reasons, but we cannot ignore the diplomatic choices of western governments, especially france, blindly following their saudi ally for fear of seeing juicy arms deals blow up. our governments are very particular about their human rights record and condemn syria and its russian and iranian allies who are fighting the islamist movements with no mercy. but they are silent about the hundreds of thousands of bombs dropped on yemen and the humanitarian embargo imposed by the arab coalition formed by saudi arabia. on the rubble of the middle east, the jihadists thrive, and our governments then pretend to fight them. to get out of this situation, let us put an end to this hypocrisy which is as intolerable as it is dangerous.
mr president, commissioner, the only solution to end the conflict is to support an inclusive, negotiated and political settlement. it is regrettable that the last round of consultations in geneva could not be concluded. we support mr griffiths' efforts and call on the european union to play a facilitating role. we missed an opportunity here in parliament in may, before the hodeidah assault and the worsening of the situation. it is imperative that the blockade be ended, which has killed more people than the fighting. particular attention should be paid to indirect causes of civilian deaths, which are referenced and documented. according to unicef, more than 247,000 malnourished children have died since 2016, and another 200,000 will die because of the blockade. yemen has over three million internally displaced people, plus those in hodeidah. unfortunately, funding for the rural resilience programme has been delayed due to insufficient funding. we are talking about the worst humanitarian crisis ever! the honourable position of the european union in the human rights council and the resolution l21 which has just been voted to extend the mandate of the group of experts should be welcomed. we must help this group and counter the campaign of intimidation that is being launched by the coalition against its members, and in particular against kamel al... (the president withdrew the floor).
mr president, commissioner, we know all about the horror in yemen: war crimes, millions of people at risk of starvation, thousands of civilians killed, school buses bombed. of course we support the un peace process, humanitarian aid and humanitarian corridors, but, commissioner, if the european union is to be credible, if the european union is to be a peace actor, its member states must not be war actors! when germany, spain, britain and france are indirect belligerents in this conflict, when they supply arms to facilitate these atrocities, we lose all credibility and these member states do so in violation of both european and international law. commissioner, we must, as the european parliament says, defend an embargo, go to the member states, go to the council, publicly demand an embargo on arms sales and ask europe to stop participating in these atrocities!
in writing. yemen is one of the world's worst humanitarian tragedies, with 9,245 people killed and 52,800 injured between march 2015 and the beginning of 2018. of the deaths, whose deaths are largely attributed to saudi coalition bombings, at least 5,558 were civilians as of 14 december 2017. three quarters of the population remain dependent on humanitarian aid, including eight million people in an even more dire situation: that is, they do not know when they will have their next meal , according to mark lowcock, un assistant secretary-general for humanitarian affairs. these dramatic circumstances are compounded by deplorable sanitary conditions. thus, 2,248 people were killed by cholera between april 2017 and january 2018. but perhaps most astonishing is the indifference of the international community, even though humanitarian aid can now only be delivered in drops in the face of blockages. it is therefore urgent to ensure that it is delivered to its beneficiaries, at the risk of bearing historic responsibility for the increase in the human toll.
member of the commission. – mr president, it is a pleasure to be here today for the debate on the commission proposal setting co2 emissions standards for cars and vans for the period up to 2020. this is a key proposal to implement the 2030 climate and energy framework, to continue delivering on our commitments under the paris agreement and to contribute to the transition to a low carbon economy. this is not just essential for the climate, but also for europe’s economic prosperity and global competiveness. with the adoption of the legislative proposals on the 2030 climate and energy framework, thanks to the excellent work of all our institutions, the european union is turning its global commitments into reality and is determined to continue as a world leader in the fight against climate change. under the effort sharing regulation the member states now have binding emission reduction targets up to 2030 in the sectors not included in the european union emissions trading system – that is transport, buildings, agriculture and waste. now it is time to make sure that at european level we have the right regulatory framework in place to contribute to meeting these targets. with almost a quarter of the european union’s total greenhouse gas emissions coming from transport, this sector has a vital role to play in this transition. while europe has reduced its emissions by some 23% since 1990, road transport emissions have grown by about 20% and today, transport accounts for more than 20% of europe’s total emissions and this continues to grow. the commission’s legislative proposal setting the new co2 standards for cars and vans for post-2020 is therefore an essential instrument to address this. your vote tomorrow is instrumental to allow the adoption of the proposal during the current legislative term and we need to give a clear and stable regulatory signal to industry as soon as possible because this will stimulate the right investments in the transition towards zero emission mobility. i want to thank the rapporteur, ms dalli, for her hard work on this proposal, putting together the position of this parliament, as well as for our constructive discussions and cooperation. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their work. i want to underline that the commission proposal, underpinned by a thorough impact assessment, is both ambitious and realistic. it strikes the right balance between the three main policy objectives that cannot be considered in isolation: firstly, achieving environmental benefits, secondly, bringing savings for consumers and finally, safeguarding employment and competitiveness in the european union. the commission proposal allows for a smooth, gradual and realistic transition to zero emission vehicles. the pace of the transition is essential, as the automotive sector is crucial for europe’s prosperity, providing jobs for 12 million people in manufacturing, sales, maintenance and transport and accounting for 4% of gross domestic product. we need to give sufficient time to achieve this reformation, to undertake the necessary investments and to reskill and upskill the workers in the current automotive supply chain. our target will have positive impacts on the overall economy. at the same time, the number of jobs will remain stable in the automotive sector. our proposal will also bring significant environmental benefits. the proposal is projected to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from road transport by around 22% between 2005 and 2030, contributing to our necessary efforts to implement the paris agreement. we have already agreed, or proposed, additional policies which will further reduce emissions from this sector, including the recently agreed renewable energy directive, as well as the proposal on co2 standards for heavy duty vehicles, the revised eurovignette and the clean vehicles and combined transport directives. from the side of consumers, the 30% target will bring significant economic benefits. consumers will save money – up to eur 400 for the average new car bought in 2025 and more than eur 1 400 in 2030. let me conclude by saying once again that the commission remains fully supportive of the efforts of parliament and the council to conclude positive discussions on this proposal still this year. i look forward to continuing to work with you on the proposal and bringing it to a positive successful conclusion. this is what our citizens, our consumers, our companies and our workers expect from all of us.
the committee on transport and tourism has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, transport accounts for more than 20% of co2 emissions in europe, and 70% of these emissions come from road transport. as a result, air pollution causes the premature death of 500,000 people in europe each year. if we don't change, we're going into the wall. to meet the cop 21 targets, emissions would need to be cut by 70% by 2030. there, they propose a 45% reduction by 2030. it is better than the commission's proposal, but it is far from enough. what do you say? that it's too ambitious. but it's too ambitious for who? for governments, for the auto lobby? i say to you, we, the european parliament, cannot compromise the climate, the health of our citizens or the 12 million jobs in the automotive sector in europe that are already threatened by international competition. clean mobility is not a threat but an opportunity for the health and conversion of the automotive sector.
in writing. there is an urgent need to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions in all sectors, but particularly in transport, whose co2 emissions have been rising for the last 30 years. the earth is suffocating, it is too hot: we cannot afford to wait until 2030 to actually reduce co2 emissions from cars and vans! the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the european union's energy policy. europe has every reason to invest in innovation, to remain competitive and to create new jobs, otherwise it will be overwhelmed by international competition, because asian manufacturers, for example, are not afraid to make the technological shift. if we start the transition now, we can do it gradually, to keep pace with the change in the affected territories and to ensure that jobs are maintained. five years from now it will be too late, we must start the transition to clean mobility today, all over europe!
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, less than two weeks ago on 21 september, the commission published the vat gap study, which shows the difference between the expected vat revenue and the amount actually collected. eur 150 billion per year is lost every year at the level of the european union. we must recognise that member states have been improving vat collection throughout the european union, but such a loss for national budgets remains unacceptable, especially when eur 50 billion of this is lining the pockets of criminals and probably even terrorists. these figures show that the reform of the current european union vat system, combined with better cooperation at european union level, are needed so that member states can make full use of vat revenues in their budgets. in april 2016, the european commission presented a communication on an action plan on vat in which it set out the pathway to the creation of a single european union vat area. the commission announced that it would present a number of proposal for the fundamental reform of the eu vat system over the coming months with the objective of making the vat system simpler, more fraud-proof and more business friendly. this programme of reforms included the two proposals you will vote on tomorrow, namely the proposal adopted by the commission on 4 october 2017, which introduces the cornerstones of the future definitive vat system, together with four short—term improvements, or quick—fixes, to the current vat rules in relation to cross—border trade in goods, and a proposal granting more flexibility for member states to define reduced vat rates. considering the complexity of the past, the major subjects have been addressed step-by-step in 2016, but they all contribute to the same objective: to create a single vat area that provides for a level playing field for business; to create a single vat area that is fraud-proof; and to treat member states equally and grant them more freedom in setting vat rates. to start with the first objective, i would remind you that our current vat system is fragmented and complex to apply for the growing number of businesses operating across borders in the european union. such businesses have vat compliance costs 11% higher than businesses whose main activities are domestic. we have to open the borders of vat and create a real single vat area for european union companies. the proposals adopted in october 2017 presented the cornerstone for a new definitive vat system, based on the principle of taxation in the member state of destination, which will result in taxing cross-border sales or goods in the same way as domestic sales. these proposals also contain four so-called quick fixes, which have been requested by businesses, stakeholders and member states. the quick fixes aim to address specific problems encountered by business and tax authorities within the current vat system related to the lack of clear and simple rules, or even the absence of any rules at all. in this respect, the commission welcomes the support of the european parliament and the draft report on this proposal in relation to the quick fixes, but also the cornerstone of the definitive vat system and the concept of certified taxable persons. in may 2018, the commission complimented these proposals by adopting a proposal on the detailed technical provisions for implementing the definitive vat system. the commission also adopted, in january 2018, measures to simplify vat procedures for smes, which represent 99% of european union business. we also welcome the support of the parliament in this resolution, which was adopted on 11 september and we are confident that an agreement can be agreed soon in the council. we have no time to lose. we estimate that this proposal will result in a compliance cost reduction of up to 11% for smes. the second main objective of our vat reform is to address the unacceptable problem of vat cross-border fraud, which is estimated at around eu 50 billion per year. before an agreement is concluded on the european union definitive vat regime, i am happy to say that – with the support of this parliament – a first commission proposal to address vat fraud was already adopted in june 2018, only six months after its adoption by the commission. it will enhance cooperation between tax administrations and law enforcement authorities and close loopholes in information sharing. it is the proof that, when there is political will, things can change quickly. the last objective of the broad reform of the european union vat system is a full modernisation of the vat rates policy. the vat rates proposal is directly linked to the definitive vat system in which member states may be accorded greater freedom to apply reduced vat rates, because it will be based on taxation at destination. the vat rates proposal is also linked to the definitive vat system, because it provides a solution to the current unequal vat treatment of member states. it will resolve the issue of over 150 temporary reduced vat rates currently in place, which are due to expire with the entry into force of the definitive vat system, and which are currently only available to some of the member states. in a nutshell, we are suggesting applying the subsidiarity principle to give more flexibility to member states in a fair manner, in order to apply reduced rates in the sectors of their choice, according to their own national priorities. on the other hand, our proposal sets a frame aiming to prevent both excessive revenue losses for member states, and distortion of competition. furthermore, in the future, reduced rates must clearly be of benefit to citizens, because they are the final consumers paying the vat. where common rules lead to a better outcome, we work together with the member states. where common rules are unnecessary, and rule—making can be achieved better at member state level, the commission steps back. to conclude, let me say that behind the apparent complexity of some proposals, the reform of the european union vat system is a win-win situation for both member states, revenues and european businesses. more money to spend for public services, and more money to invest for businesses. with the support of parliament, the adoption of these proposals before the european elections will show citizens the added value of the european union and the benefits of a real single market for vat.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, commissioner, we are going to vote tomorrow on two important texts on vat, as a contribution to the establishment of this definitive vat system which europe has been waiting for so long since the time it has lived under the temporary system, into which a manifest fraud, known as the 'carrousel', has crept. despite the efforts of the member states, the vat gap - that is, the difference between the expected vat revenue and the amount actually collected by the member states - is €150 billion, of which €50 billion is due to the famous carousel fraud. reform of the present system is therefore essential. it must be combined with better coordination or cooperation between member states at european level to facilitate cross-border trade and, above all, to make the system more resistant to fraud so that vat revenue can actually be used by member states in their budgets. rather than taxing more on the purchasing power of european citizens, it is fraud that we must try to reduce. the system must be made more efficient and therefore simplified, and the socialists fully support the principle of destination, a principle which is endorsed by the reform proposed by the commission. but in the fight against fraud, we also believe that companies that play by the rules should not be penalized, and that is why we supported the report by my colleague, mr jeppe kofod - (the president interrupts the speaker) - and we regret that the council has not yet taken up the proposal in mr kofod's report for the status of certified auditors, which would allow them to benefit from simplified procedures.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank the two rapporteurs for the work they have done in this consultation procedure. it is not trivial, we are united and our message to the finance ministers is extremely clear: this reform, which is guided by two key words, namely simplicity and efficiency, must be started without delay. the simplicity lies in choosing a floor at 15% and a ceiling at 25%. it is also a simplification which translates into a much more flexible procedure than unanimity for the definition of reduced rates. this is another simplification compared with what naturally remains to be created, i.e. a system of certified taxable persons, which will make it possible to access much less burdensome procedures and facilitate the payment of vat in cross-border transactions. the efficiency of the system lies in the availability of a comprehensive multilingual portal, which will enable businesses and citizens to understand the system. efficiency also requires a system of mechanisms for resolving conflicts between states. another step now remains, which will also be guided by efficiency and simplicity, namely the principle of taxation in the state of destination, one of the ways of combating the estimated €50 billion in fraud in this area. therefore, a single vat area for the whole union is in the interest of all - citizens, businesses and member states - except for fraudsters, which is also the aim.
mr president, commissioner, your proposal for a vat directive is going in the right direction for at least two reasons. the first is that it will make it possible to combat effectively the scandal of vat fraud, with systems such as the 'carrousel'. the second reason for satisfaction is that you allow the states to choose rates which are lower than the normal rate. in your suggestion to rewrite article 98 and with regard to annex iii to the 2006 directive, you state that the reduced rates must serve the final consumer and are used to pursue, in a consistent manner, an objective of general interest. i would simply like to check with you whether this is the case in the horse sector. it has a socio-ecological-environmental dimension: land use planning, rural development, healthcare, equine therapy and a sector that creates jobs that cannot be relocated. there is no risk of unfair competition in this area. last week we even saw a small horse being presented here in parliament as a guide for the blind. i would therefore like to check with you, commissioner, that this sector can indeed benefit from a reduced rate, if that is the wish of the member state. that is my understanding of your proposal and i thank you for your reply.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, after hungary and poland, the commission is now looking at romania. as in the case of poland, the eurocrats blame the romanian government for its reform of the judicial system, which allegedly threatens the rule of law, but each time these legal and technical arguments are in reality only pretexts, as i had the opportunity to see during the recent libe mission to warsaw. in reality, what the commission cannot stand is that the people make democratic decisions and are consulted on matters which it would like to decide for them. commissioner timmermans admitted on monday evening that family policy is a matter for the member states, for this ardent support of the lgbti lobby, etc., but one does not have the right to be against marriage for same-sex couples. on saturday and sunday, the romanian people will be able to vote in a referendum on whether or not to accept the proposal to constitutionalize marriage between a man and a woman. being french, i had forgotten that one could be left-wing and refuse to give in to the communitarian demands of the ultra-minority. the european institutions must respect romania, its sovereignty and its democratic choices, mr timmermans said. it is up to the romanian people to decide what future they want for their children.
in writing. two weeks ago i spoke in this very house to denounce the serious misconduct of the hungarian government. i could go back almost to the point i made then and address you, madam prime minister. as in hungary, your government is attacking the judiciary in an attempt to remove corrupt and convicted elected officials, at the risk of calling into question the acknowledged and sustained progress in the fight against corruption. as in hungary, you are passing laws to impede the work of ngos and the mobilization of civil society. as in hungary, you take refuge behind the results of elections, forgetting that the rule of law is not limited to election deadlines. it is based on pluralism and is based on a foundation of values. like hungary, you owe the relative silence of the eu to the support of a major european political party, in this case the socialist party. like the hungarians, the romanians must no longer be exploited for the benefit of a few. they are entitled to respect for their fundamental rights and to eu support in their demands for genuine democracy. i cannot end my speech without paying tribute to the remarkable work of my colleague laura codruta kovesi against corruption.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the citizenship income or minimum income, as presented today, is an attempt to respond to one of the most glaring aspects of the failure of 60 years of european construction. it did not in any way follow up the prosperity movement that had emerged from the boom years of post-war reconstruction. nor did it prevent or dampen the great crisis of 2008. today, it is no longer enough to work to escape poverty. this is unacceptable. in addition, almost all european countries have a minimum wage and/or a minimum old age and/or social minimum. yet, all of these are below the poverty line. it is therefore a comprehensive european policy of economic recovery, training individuals and freeing up businesses, which is becoming urgent, but also large-scale global policies of direct responsibility of the member states, which should help preserve their social system. so let us stop dealing with the consequences and finally tackle the causes!
madam president, more than 120 million poor people, including workers, are a deep scar on the european union's forehead. we should act to ensure that every citizen living in the european union has a decent minimum income, that is, well above the poverty line, combined with an effective right to health, housing and training leading to a guarantee of a job for which there should no longer be a wage below 60% of the european median wage. but the main issue is the work and its remuneration. commissioner, you should launch a framework directive for occupational social security combining a guarantee of work and lifelong learning for each and every european citizen, as well as the right to health and housing. the financial resources of large companies today, the banks, the loans from the central bank to private banks, exist today for this purpose. in short, there is an urgent need to create a europe of work.
madam president, there is a lot of talk today about inactivity income. i would also like to talk to you about the income from the activity. in europe, as we know, the differences between the various minimum incomes can vary by a factor of between 1 and 8. for example, it is €2,000 in luxembourg, while it is only €260 in bulgaria. such differences are ideal breeding grounds for the followers of the retreat, the followers of europhobia, because the economic and social consequences of such wage gaps can be disastrous for the factories, which are closing down in ever greater numbers, as well as for the workers who, unfortunately, suffer unfair competition from posted workers. and it is the less well-off who pay the price for the dysfunction of the internal market. millions of people think that europe is not only responsible for some of the failures of our industrial fabric, but also for unemployment and precariousness. a first step has been taken thanks to the decisive contribution of our epp colleague, élisabeth morin-chartier, who, in revising the directive on posted workers, imposed the fundamental principle of 'equal pay for equal work'. but i propose that we go further, and on the minimum wage gap, i would like to propose something very concrete today. just as we are considering making the allocation of the structural funds conditional on respect for the rule of law, i propose making the allocation of the same funds conditional on respect for certain wage criteria, such as, for example, the introduction of a minimum wage sufficiently high to give dignity and to combat unfair competition and social dumping. my dear colleagues, if we do not want differences in wages to fuel the differences between peoples, we must harmonize our social systems. the credibility of the european project is at stake.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that whenever the european union fears the rise of protest, it ventures into a field that it is not very fond of: the social field. because it is unable to bring prosperity and full employment to all its member states, the european union is trying to give itself a good conscience by bringing out this old european minimum income chimera. but several questions remain: how can a minimum income be imposed when social policy is the exclusive responsibility of the member states? and even if it is, how do you calculate it? should it be set at 60% of median income, as stated in the owninitiative report voted on a year ago? if it is too low, it will not change anything and it will not reduce poverty or social inequality. if it is too high, it will in the short term cause an increase in public deficits and a decline in the competitiveness of enterprises, in total contradiction to the brussels injunctions on the consolidation of public finances. as usual, the european union is trying in vain to solve the problems it has created.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by axel voss, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the european union agency for judicial cooperation in criminal matters (eurojust) (com (2013) 0535 - c7-240/2013 - 2013/0256 (cod)) (a8-0320/2017).
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, to discuss eurojust today this evening is to talk about this actor which has become central and indispensable in the field of judicial cooperation and which directly contributes to strengthening our area of freedom, security and justice. with this reform, we are taking a definite step towards a genuine european agency for judicial cooperation, an agency which, thanks to this revision, will be modernised to be more effective in the fight against these many and different types of crossborder crime. the discussions on the reform of eurojust have long been dependent on, and linked to, the agreement on the creation of the european public prosecutor's office, which is a real breakthrough for our union. we have therefore obviously worked closely on the developments concerning the establishment of the european public prosecutor's office. as rapporteur for my group, the adle group, we have placed particular emphasis on the relationship between eurojust and the public prosecutor's office, because this future cooperation is essential for strengthening rights. the final agreement on our text clarifies and improves the links with the public prosecutor's office in the administrative, institutional and, above all, operational framework. this is all the more important as many of us wanted to see the role of the european public prosecutor's office strengthened by extending its remit to cross-border crime and terrorism, as was also the case with president juncker in his state of the union address a few weeks ago. with regard to the reform of eurojust in particular, i would like to commend the smooth work of our fellow rapporteur, axel voss, who was patient during the negotiations, particularly on the issue of the data protection regime. i sincerely believe that we have struck a good balance which respects data protection. my group will of course support this agreement.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, crime knows no borders, especially financial crime, which uses it to evade vat, to evade tax and to launder dirty money. that is why the work of our justice cannot stop at national borders. we need eurojust and the european public prosecutor's office. judicial cooperation within the european union is essential to better combat crime and terrorism. eurojust facilitates the exchange of information and contributes to the strengthening of a european legal culture. i therefore welcome the adoption of the new regulatory framework for eurojust, which clarifies in particular the relationship between this agency and the new prosecutor's office. these two bodies will have to work hand in hand to combat crossborder crime effectively. the effectiveness of these programmes will also depend on the human and financial resources allocated to them. let's make sure that impunity is no longer an option. let us give ourselves the means to have a european justice worthy of the name.
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on thursday 4 october 2018.
the agenda calls for the debate on the report by nathalie griesbeck, on behalf of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders (com (2016) 0819 - c8-0002/2017 - 2016/0412 (cod)) (a8-0001/2018).
i'm the reporter. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am very pleased to present to you this evening, finally, our final agreement, following the negotiations on the regulation on the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders. it is true that the union already had minimum rules and rules on mutual recognition, but these were largely outdated. in particular, they allowed criminals and terrorists to exploit vulnerabilities very easily. that is why it was important to review the legislation and to work fairly quickly. the freezing and confiscation of the property and assets of criminals is also a tool in the fight against crime and terrorism, in particular because depriving terrorists of the proceeds of their illegal activities prevents them from carrying out attacks. however, in this area, we have a very wide margin for improvement, since, since we are working on this very important issue at the moment, 98.9% of the estimated criminal profits are not confiscated and remain in the hands of criminals. in other words, only 1% of the proceeds of crime are confiscated. this is unacceptable and cannot go on like this. furthermore, it should not be forgotten that confiscation of the property of crime is also a very important instrument when it comes to compensating victims. our tools must therefore be designed at european level and for europeans. i was pleased when the commission immediately proposed to work on a regulation, not a directive. even if some member states were a little slow in this respect, it is this legal instrument that has finally been accepted and on which we will be voting tomorrow. parliament of course adopted in january, by a very large majority, an ambitious position which simplifies and normalises procedures and improves the speed and efficiency of freezing and confiscation decisions by tightening the time limits. of course, this is a position which gives victims a major place and which has been defended to the hilt in the interinstitutional negotiations with the support of the fictitious rapporteurs, whom i thank in particular for their trust and for the good working atmosphere we have had. given the importance of this tool, our institutional partners responded and acted swiftly and thoroughly. the negotiations have resulted in a balanced instrument which respects fundamental rights and is operational. the final agreement is based on better procedural safeguards with a definition of the term 'affected person'. this was a very important point, since it was not possible to ignore the fact that innocent people are sometimes affected by freezing and confiscation decisions. we also reached a consensus in the negotiations - and it is important to mention this, where it exists, even with the council - on the place to be given to victims and, in particular, on compensation for victims, since we believe that victims must be at the heart of our judicial system. we fought and won the reuse of confiscated property for social purposes and, finally, in one of the key objectives, parliament was particularly united in the aim of creating a tool that is fast to be effective. the member states were difficult to convince, but a 45-day deadline was introduced for the recognition and enforcement of confiscation orders. finally, we have fought hard to strengthen and take even more account of fundamental rights. in addition to the obligation to respect the key principles of necessity and proportionality, we have successfully fought to insert a fundamental rights-based non-recognition clause for freezing and confiscation decisions. after weeks of deadlock, we reached an agreement and obtained such a clause for freezing decisions as well as for confiscation - which was more difficult - with a crucial mention made to the european charter of human rights. for all these reasons, i thank my colleagues for their patience, determination and good atmosphere, and in conclusion i would also like to thank věra jourová and her team for putting this agreement to the vote tomorrow.
for the greens/efa group madam president, madam commissioner, as has been pointed out, crime robs our states of €110 billion every year and 99% of these illegal profits are never recovered and remain in the pockets of criminals. let's not let the money of crime flourish, let's confiscate it across the border. the regulation on the mutual recognition of freezing and confiscation orders is welcomed. it will enable a member state to recognise and enforce directly on its territory a freezing or confiscation decision issued by another member state in the context of criminal proceedings. this is an important step towards a genuine european area of freedom, security and justice. the fight against crime must not be waged at the expense of citizens' rights. i therefore welcome the fact that we have reached a compromise with the council on the possibility of refusing to recognise a confiscation order in the event that fundamental rights have not been respected, such as the right to a fair trial. these precautions are essential at a time when several european governments are seriously undermining the foundations of justice.
member of the commission. – mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for this very interesting debate about the regulation on the confiscation and freezing of assets or income from criminal activities. debating this topic, i am aware that it has a much wider context. i am sure that you also hear from eu citizens that there is decreasing trust among the people in the eu institutions. one of the sources of this distrust is that the people do not see justice delivering enough justice – the justice system delivering fairness. this is something we have to stop, and we have to be much better, and in the eu being better means co-operating better. this is what we are discussing about today. we spoke before about eurojust, now we are speaking about freezing and confiscation orders. later today we will speak about the fight against money laundering. in all these cases we speak about combating organised crime, which has a cross-border scope and which requires perfect and well-orchestrated cooperation at eu level. of course, as many of you mentioned here, a very efficient way to stop the criminals is to cut them off from the money. that this is exactly what we are trying to do in this proposal. back to cooperation, i would have wished to have a good debate. for instance with mr batten, who spoke here about the issue of sovereignty. i don’t share this opinion. i think that cooperation is not contradicting national sovereignty. it’s a big misunderstanding, and i am sure that everything that we do in criminal justice cooperation is to create proposals and plans which fully respect the sovereignty of member states, which fully respect fundamental rights and individual freedoms of people, and which respond to security threats to the extent which is necessary and proportionate from the side of law enforcement authorities. also, this proposal which we are debating today is, as i said before, well balanced, balancing the need to deliver more security and, at the same time, more justice and full respect for fundamental rights. this is my comment on what we heard from the british member. on this topic, i would like to mention that we have very good cooperation with the british authorities. we speak about future cooperation in the fields of security and justice, because this is of vital importance, both for the eu and the united kingdom. i would wish for very intensive cooperation in the future, not only within the eu itself and among the member states, but also between the eu and the united kingdom.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i will be very brief and mention just a few points. the first is to say how much i agree with the analysis that vera jourová has just made of the quality of the debate this afternoon. we heard positions which some of them considered to be very different and even opposed, including one of the positions opposed to the regulation which is to mix - perhaps cynically or perhaps candidly - the idea of cooperation to fight crossborder organised crime and the possession of the sovereignty of states. in the debate this afternoon there were those who supported this position, particularly our british friends and colleagues, and others who wanted to do everything possible to ensure that cooperation would make it possible to track down and pursue, while making it more difficult for them, crossborder criminal organisations, particularly terrorists. to my colleagues who have complained that it is not coming soon enough, i will simply reply with the adage 'better late than never'. it is true that this could have been done earlier, but this view may also ignore the difficulty of reaching agreement with 27 member states, and therefore with colleagues who have different positions. lastly, and secondly, i think that many of us will be united tomorrow in voting on this issue and on this regulation, this legal instrument which will make it possible to be effective and rapid. in conclusion - i am on time - i would like to thank the commissioner, her staff and the council, and also and especially the rapporteurs, the co-rapporteurs, with whom we have spent many hours and sometimes had some very hard discussions. i really thank them from the bottom of my heart and we shall see you tomorrow for the vote.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, once again with this proposal you are destroying any chance of obtaining a balanced text which would respect the interests of the member states and their independence. the abolition of digital borders is a major mistake in equal proportions to the abolition of physical borders. the end of geo-blocking, which is once again being called for, and the requirement to locate data are measures that further limit the digital sovereignty of the member states. the positive and important points of the text are thus relegated to the background, a tragic fate for most of the texts debated here in this house. the real legislative issues are held hostage by disastrous ideological provisions. for example, the question of the protection of mixed data, which are both personal and non-personal, deserved to be defended in a pragmatic way and certainly did not deserve to be exploited for the benefit of an ultra-liberal project, as the rapporteur is doing here, who again misses the opportunity to be reasonable.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this draft regulation is intended to prevent our states from regulating the location of data. it subjects us to the commission's control to know which data is relevant to the security of the country or not. the commission, this commission at the service of the lobbies and the cosmopolitan oligarchy, is once again going to put our states under foreign, and extra-european, domination! it is a forceful force, it claims to want our good and, in the name of good, it systematically destroys our sovereignty. digital technologies are not only technologies of sovereignty, but also technologies of domination. free competition and unfettered markets are transforming our states into digital colonies of foreign multinationals. china is independent, for example, because it has banned foreign companies in this field on its territory. digital technologies are the free cooperation of states, that's all! (the speaker refuses to answer a question by anna maria corazza bildt)
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur and our negotiator for their work on this important matter. the data economy is a growing sector and an increasingly important part of our economy. i want to show that by 2020, in the european union, more than 30 billion connected machines will be in circulation. the purpose of this text is to take note of this situation and to define the right balance between two concerns. on the one hand, the free movement - in this case, the free movement of non-personal data - and on the other, the protection of the interests of european citizens. in this particular case, we are of course talking about the protection of personal data. in the original proposal for the text, there were areas of uncertainty as to the scope of the text and the scope of the general data protection regulation. i am therefore very pleased with the compromise that has been reached on this text. it sets out the obligation to always apply a high level of protection of personal data in situations where the privacy of european citizens is at stake. it is an issue on which the union is today a world leader, and i think it is in its best interests to remain so.
mr president, madam commissioner, the fight against money laundering and tax evasion, the fight against the financing of organised crime and the fight against terrorism are absolute priorities for any democrat. billions of euros are laundered in europe every year, undermining the integrity and stability of the financial system. in recent months, our news has been dominated by money laundering cases involving european banks. the activities of ablv in latvia, versobank in estonia, danske bank and ing in the netherlands have been exposed, while pilatus bank in malta has just lost its banking licence. this reveals serious and unacceptable shortcomings in the eu's anti-money laundering regulations. first, some states and their banking and financial regulators clearly lack the resources to investigate and sanction fraudulent practices, as was the case in latvia. other member states' competent authorities fail to cooperate with each other in a sufficiently effective and timely manner, as was seen in the case of the netherlands and latvia in relation to danske bank. we therefore need stronger supervision by the european authorities. the european parliament, in its econ committee, with the work on danièle nouy, but also in its taxe committee, with the hearings on the fight against money laundering in the banking sector, has demonstrated its commitment to promoting a more appropriate european supervisory architecture in order to achieve a better application of the legal framework in the fight against money laundering. but that's not enough. further efforts are still needed in this area and the regulatory capital directive, currently under negotiation, should complete this arsenal. we also need a comprehensive reform that tackles the root of the problem by proposing a harmonised and effective european framework, in which a european authority would have real powers to fight money laundering. you have proposed that the european banking authority should become the pillar of supervision and the fight against money laundering. as co-rapporteur on the reform of the european supervisory authorities, you can be sure that i will be fully committed to bringing this reform to a successful conclusion before the end of this mandate.
president—in—office of the council. – mr president, honourable members, thank you for the opportunity to participate in this debate on the situation in the mediterranean and the role of local and regional authorities in receiving and supporting migrants and refugees at local level. indeed, many actors at local level have made great efforts to welcome and ensure access to services such as housing, healthcare and education and enabling long—term integration of migrants and refugees. as i already mentioned yesterday morning, during more than two years the commission proposal on the dublin reform has been on the table. many options have been considered by the council. however, none of the solutions proposed by successive presidencies have gained the required support. based on the work of the bulgarian presidency and previous presidencies, the austrian presidency has continued to work with you to find a consensus to reform it, based on a balance of responsibility and solidarity. mandatory allocation, which is at the heart of parliament’s mandate, continues to be the main stumbling block in the negotiations in the council, and this divides not only the member states, but also the populations of the member states. we conducted bilateral talks with all member states in august, in order to find possible middle ground. this issue was also discussed at the informal summit in salzburg, and we will have a discussion at the justice and home affairs council on 12 october. the aim is to present the outcome to heads of state and government at the european council on 18 october. we are also working on the other files to find a solution to the whole package. this morning we were reminded of the tragedy of lampedusa. i want to underline that we have to ensure that no more lives are lost at sea. the objective remains to remove the incentive to undertake risky journeys by sea. i would also like to mention that in december 2016 the council adopted conclusions on the integration of third country nationals. on this occasion, member states recognised the important role of regional and local authorities, civil society and social partners, as well as local partners and communities in the integration process. member states were notably invited to focus their efforts on early integration measures in order to enable early access to education, vocational training and to the labour market. we all know that local and regional authorities play a key part in ensuring the reception of asylum seekers’ access to services and long—term integration into host communities. on the question of direct funding for cities and regions and granting them direct access to relevant funding, i can say the following. the multiannual financial framework provides long—term predictability for all policy areas covered by the union, including integration measures. the integration of third country nationals is explicitly mentioned in the amif regulation. local and regional authorities are eligible entities, the funds being channelled through the respective administrations of member states. in order to achieve the greatest added value, amif pursues strategies designed to promote the integration of third country nationals at national, local and/or regional level, where appropriate. in view of the next programing period 2021—2027, the long—term integration measures are proposed by the commission to be included in the european social fund+. this fund should focus on integration in the labour market, leaving early integration measures to the new asylum and migration fund (amf). the asylum and migration fund, which is part of the mff post-2020 package, should facilitate even more access to union funding. it should, as proposed by the commission, take into consideration the crucial role played by local and regional authorities and civil society organisations in the field of integration. in general, the amf should promote early integration measures for the social and economic inclusion of third country nationals preparing their active participation in, and their acceptance by, the receiving society, in particular with the involvement of local or regional authorities and civil society organisations. these actions should benefit from a higher cofinancing rate. long—term integration measures should be covered by the european social fund+ in the mff post 2020. thank you very much for raising theses important questions and for your attention. i would be happy if needed to complement these introductory elements at the close of the debate.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, madam minister for the presidencies of the council, ladies and gentlemen! on behalf of my colleague mr avramopoulos, who is to represent the commission at the eu-western balkans conference in tirana today, i would like to answer your questions as follows, on the basis that we are trying to formulate a balanced migration policy as a commission, achieving solidarity, sustainability and smart solutions also and especially at local and regional level. the municipalities and regions are key partners on the ground for many migration and refugee issues. that is why the support of our local authorities is very important to us. i am grateful to parliament for its interest, for its advice and also for its support in the reform of the common european asylum system. we should do everything we can to make not only progress but also decisions before the european elections. of the seven commission legislative proposals, five are actually likely to be agreed, and it seems to be a common objective of the council presidency and all the parties concerned to reach and adopt this agreement now. the reform of the dublin system. let 's not kid ourselves . this was a system which, with 30,000 to 40,000 refugees a year, was a reasonable task for the most affected countries - bulgaria, greece, italy, spain, malta and cyprus. a larger number was too much. so my first question to all of us - and this is different from my text - is this: is not every refugee who reaches europe a task for the whole of europe, for the common union? we as the commission have dealt with a number of individual cases over the summer - ships in the mediterranean, valencia, barcelona, naples, valetta - to ensure that the refugees on these boats reach safe european ground. and that is why we were grateful that there were member states that offered to do this. consider: what if a boat sank on the high seas in the next few weeks, or a disaster struck? we would all be rightly embarrassed. and i believe - and i want to make this very clear as an experienced commissioner - that the european union should be prepared to comply with all its obligations under international law, the law of the sea, the geneva convention on refugees, the convention on human rights and the rule of law at every european level. europe must not be faced with the question: do you accept international law, do you accept the refugee convention, do you accept the law of the sea with limited significance? it must remain our legal basis. we should find a sustainable solution, not just for each individual case, for each individual ship. we in the commission are counting on the european council not only to discuss this but also to come up with smart solutions based on solidarity. the protection of external borders plays a role in this, and return arrangements in third countries play a role. but it is also a matter of sensible solidarity within the member states of the european union. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission is ready to provide any assistance it may need. when regions and local authorities ask what the european union and the european budget can do: the new asylum and migration fund for the next multiannual financial framework, which we presented in june, provides for much more resources, better access and less bureaucratic provisions for local and regional authorities. the sooner we adopt the next budgetary framework, the sooner the municipalities will have clarity about europe's financial partnership with the tasks of integration, accommodation and implementation of procedures at the local and regional level. the commission is also proposing more incentives for member states, for example by increasing the eu's contribution to the financing of integration measures. it is a planning authority which has been operating for seven years. we also want to work in the municipalities that are particularly affected - i can give you an example: samos, where we have a so-called hotspot - to improve the infrastructure - water, waste water, infrastructure in general - and where we can offer european funds so that the municipalities and cities that do more, which should also do more geographically, are relieved of the burden of what they have to do to organise a decent life for people who arrive in europe. we support the development of adequate emergency plans and have also provided funds for this in the european budget. the european support agency, which we are now developing, has produced a guide to emergency planning in the reception system and offers assistance to all regional partners. we are turning conferences into best practice, into city academies between practitioners and local politicians, and we want to help in this as much as we can as a commission. i would like to mention the european migration forum - a platform for civil society and local authorities - where we discuss and try to find solutions to migration management issues on the ground.in the context of the network of member state authorities working in the field of immigration, we have provided measures to strengthen cooperation between all levels and we have also provided funding in the budgets 2018, 2019 and 2020 that we can offer. we organise study visits for professionals: we call on the local authorities to come to the commission so that we can offer our network, our advice, our experience and also some modest financial resources. and it is clear that it is also about questions of legal immigration to europe, to the labour market. it's about reducing irregular migration through orderly gates. we have proposed a reform of the eu blue card to make the path to us more attractive for skilled migrants and to make it less bureaucratic, more flexible and easier to enter european labour markets. we need the social partners - employers, trade unions - to do this, and that is why we are organising joint platforms between the labour market players and the european union. in summary, the european union is of course playing a crucial role, but the integration and legal review is taking place on the ground. that is why the work of mayors and community social workers, integration experts, cannot be overestimated. it is our duty to support them financially, to build a network and to make their work easier. we can do a lot of things in the present budgetary framework and we could and can do this work much more flexibly than before, and also financially, with the next budgetary framework adopted at an early stage.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, five years ago today, a boat sank off lampedusa, killing 368 people: somalis, eritreans, sudanese. in the wake of this, italy launched operation mare nostrum. a year later, the operation was stopped, as italy could not continue it alone. triton has not replaced it, either in its scope or in the means employed. nearly 20,000 people have died in the mediterranean since 2014. the number of crossings has now decreased by 90% compared to the peak in 2015, but the number of deaths is rising proportionally: 1 death for every 5 crossings in september (20%!) compared to 1 for 47 in 2017. that's nine deaths a day! and we won't block them. the european union is flouting international law, the law of the sea and the right of asylum, and that is a disgrace! it is this failure of the union and its member states to fulfil their international obligations that has led ngos to charter ships to save these men, women and children trying to cross the mediterranean at the risk of their lives. the aquarius is now the only ship at sea. we must act to ensure that it has a flag, and i very much hope that it will be french and that all the boats that want to save lives will be able to go to sea. no, we must not criminalize ngos, citizens or elected officials, and i too want to denounce the situation facing domenico lucano, the mayor of riace. we must give everyone who wants to the means to help refugees and for that, yes, we must open up direct access to european funds to them, without unnecessary bureaucracy.
mr president, commissioner, all the figures are there to prove it: arrivals via the mediterranean are down. it is true that they will not stop there, especially if we consider the upcoming climate changes. so we can try to focus on how to push migrants back from our borders, but the european union must also work on reception and integration. to do this, local government must be at the heart of the thinking. the arrival of migrants has effects primarily at the local level. it's where you have to house, educate, employ the newcomers. the challenge for the union is therefore to support local authorities in turning these arrivals into assets. the budgetary means exist in the european asylum, migration and integration fund. they must be increased, they must be geared to local authorities and they must be made easier, because, contrary to what you have said, commissioner, it is not a question of asking the commission to make it work. it's infinitely more complicated than that. in this short message, i would like to pay tribute to the commitment of local authorities, despite the lack of support from the states. they are the key to the success of integration policies.
in writing. until now, many member states have shown themselves to be unable to manage migration flows at the doorsteps of our common space. in the face of their passivity, inaction and even denial of what constitutes a genuine humanitarian emergency, the commission must find effective solutions in accordance with our values. this can be expressed in the implementation of a budget for regional authorities to help them manage the reception and integration of migrants. the development of such a mechanism would not only meet the principle of subsidiarity but would also make it possible to combat xenophobia and populism effectively and pragmatically. i am therefore in favour of supporting local and regional authorities, as long as it guarantees the fundamental rights of migrants and allows us to implement an orderly, safe and respectful management of migration.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, commissioner, you have come here to tell us that the commission has made the fight against customs fraud a priority. all right, but what are you waiting for to really tackle the tobacco industry, which feeds the parallel market and loses more than €10 billion a year to european states? how can we accept that billions are lost in this way, when the european union is constantly demanding budgetary efforts that are unsustainable for the peoples of europe? the question is, what are you waiting for to really take on the tobacco lobby? the reality, the sad reality, i fear, is that even in the fight against customs fraud you are still tied hand and foot with the tobacco lobby, to which you have entrusted essential tasks in tracing cigarettes, even though - and you know this - cigarettes sold on the parallel market come straight from the factories and encourage smuggling. if you are sincere in your desire to combat customs fraud, then bring the tobacco directive into line with the who protocol without delay and permanently cut off all these toxic goods.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, transparency and respect for a certain ethical standard in the award of public contracts are natural objectives, common sense, which has not waited for this text to express itself, but which nevertheless requires our logical support. however, the text does not limit itself to these objectives. these requirements of transparency and honesty are combined with other provisions which are much less obvious. the systematic and non-negotiable opening of public procurement to third countries raises real problems of sovereignty and independence. national public authorities must be able to develop independently the criteria for selecting the companies which will win these contracts. this fundamental difference marks a crucial divide between the ultra-liberals who run the european union and the nationalists who want to protect their country. we consider economic, social and environmental objectives to be sincere objectives which you are constantly exploiting for the benefit of your project without frontiers. we have a strategic interest in local government and in national preference for public procurement, as far as capacity is concerned. we assume that this is a national preference and will therefore vote against this text.
mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur and our fictitious rapporteur, mr marc tarabella, for their work on this report. the figures were recalled, and we know the importance of public procurement in the european economy: 14% of gdp, €2 trillion. it is therefore a powerful tool for transforming our economies and for instilling values in economic activity that go beyond the simple maximisation of financial profit. in particular, the latest legislative package, which dates from 2014, remains unfortunately under-utilized by european public purchasers. i am thinking of course of the flexibility it provides for the use of criteria other than financial minimum and the consideration of issues such as social inclusion or environmental quality in the selection of tenders. this new package is an additional tool to raise awareness of these possibilities, to improve the training of public purchasers and to ensure that public procurement plays its full role in promoting a more virtuous and sustainable economic activity.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, belarus is often considered the last dictatorship in europe, the only european country not to be in the council of europe. the death penalty is still in force. no elections have been judged to be in line with international standards since 2001. mr lukashenko was re-elected in 2015 with 83.5% of the vote. so, yes, freedom of expression is a deception: the closure of the charter 97 website is just one example. the european union is becoming more and more complacent. we're even negotiating a visa-free agreement with the united states. why would you do that? because of naivety? in an attempt to reproduce a ukrainian-style scenario? perhaps, but also because belarus is a policeman of the european union. the bulk of the 91 million under the neighbourhood instrument is spent not on mobility but on closing borders, in the best interests of the polish government. hundreds of people from chechnya, tajikistan and even syria were stranded in brest, near the belarusian border. poland refused to examine their asylum applications and some were returned, including to russia. that's a lot of money. poland is more accommodating to ukrainian workers and has a good attitude towards denouncing the migrant invasions from the south, refusing to participate in any european solidarity. we are turning a blind eye to what is happening at this border and are sending people back to countries where human rights violations are reported: total incoherence! as always, there are two sides to every argument, depending on the interests of the member states.
author. mr president, we have long failed to put human rights on the agenda in the uae. in this house, the gulf countries have many friends, and this is particularly true for the uae, the only country in the region to benefit from visa liberalisation. the uae is one of the countries in the world that accepts the most immigrants. so, dubai has only 5 percent of the emirati population. there are a few examples of "westerners" working in multinational companies (including young people discriminated against here despite their degrees, and welcomed there with golden bridges), but the majority are workers hired for large pharaonic jobs and domestic servants - mostly women - victims of the kafala system, which makes them modern-day slaves. but, as we know, the emirates are good customers. france and germany, as well as israel, have provided them with spyware to monitor their citizens, including human rights defenders such as ahmed mansour, ossama al-najjar and nasser bin ghaith. worse, france is one of their main suppliers of arms through a system of corruption that has recently been revealed by the french media. these weapons are being used in yemen, in defiance of the arms trade treaty and with the humanitarian crisis that we know about. so yes, we must urgently impose an arms embargo, demand that the emiratis respect their international commitments and release all prisoners of conscience, and we must demand that our states also respect their commitments.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, some muslim countries, unlike our own, have understood the deadly danger to liberties posed by the muslim brotherhood. the uae, along with other countries, has classified the organization as a terrorist organization. they are showing lucidity and protecting their people, while the west is often blinded by the brotherhood's double-talk and deception. the uae has been the victim of manipulation and interference by qatar since 2011, which uses the muslim brotherhood for this purpose. mr. mansour is, consciously or unconsciously, an agent of this conspiracy. he is affiliated with the muslim brotherhood, he is involved in the gulf center for human rights, an organization funded in large part by mr. soros, master of the alliance of finance, crime and terrorism to destabilize our states and the states. ladies and gentlemen, we must absolutely support the uae in its fight against terrorism, it is in our interest. i add that the king has granted his pardon to this criminal and that we are facing a repeat offender.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the province of xinjiang, which i visited some 20 years ago, has long been the scene of an armed separatist movement, which has carried out many attacks and is fuelled by militant islamism. under these conditions, what state would not monitor extremist mosques or extremists? that's what china does. but those who talk about concentration camps with two million prisoners, as a member of the un committee for the elimination of racial discrimination did, without any proof of this information, in geneva on august 13, 2018, are ridiculous. two million, or one million, as i heard here, is the population or half the population of paris. yet this is where the myth of mass arbitrary detention comes from. it's a false news that you should be fighting instead of validating it with your resolution.
madam president, we are witnessing what the un calls the world's worst humanitarian crisis unfold in yemen. a people is dying in the indifference and complicity - it must be said - of western capitals, more occupied with their small business and big compromises with the infamous saudi regime. shame on the governments of the united states, france, spain, the united kingdom, who sell weapons that kill children in yemen! shame on europe, comfortably seated in its impotence! shame on all those who continue to lecture the world and trade in the blood of the innocent. i hope that the call made by the european parliament against the sale of arms will be heard by the states and in particular by france.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, crowded, repeatedly injured, unable to move or to see the light of day for a single moment, how many people throughout europe are subjected to such undignified living conditions to fill our plates with the approximately 13 million tonnes of poultry meat produced annually in europe? this macabre daily life is no exception, since the percentage of farms with more than 5 000 head holds 93.5% of the chickens in the european union. these animals, which were themselves selected for their extraordinary growth, four times faster than that known in the 1950s, testify to the extreme industrialization of our agricultural production. far from being the preserve of a horde of vegan bobos who are content with their material comforts, as is said in the media, the issue of animal welfare is the fate of an exploding world population. indeed, at a time when antibiotic resistance threatens to plunge us into an unprecedented health crisis, causing up to 10 million deaths a year by 2050, the impact on humans of their intensive use to combat the infections that are rampant in these overcrowded farms is now clear. finally, there is the ethical question, since while the treatment of the most vulnerable reflects the degree of civilization of a human society, we can no longer ignore the abject suffering inflicted on so many sensitive beings in the name of unbridled productivism. we do not have two hearts: one for animals and one for humans, wrote alphonse de lamartine. you either have a heart or you don't.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to broilers and the use of antibiotics to promote animal growth, i would like to point out here, as i have repeatedly said in the inta committee, that although their use is prohibited in 51% of our member states, it remains totally and 100% legal and very widely spread in the united states, canada, all the mercosur countries, australia and new zealand - all countries covered by the free trade agreements negotiated by mr juncker and his commission. understand that as things stand, it is estimated that these drug practices are not far from competing with, or even exceeding, the volume of prescriptions for human beings. the conditions of these trade agreements must now be reviewed, and it is imperative and vital to put in place a real system of traceability and labelling of imported products for the welfare of animals, of course, and for consumer information and choice because the health of our fellow citizens is also at stake.
mr president, i would like to refer to the rules of procedure based on articles 9 and 150 which concern the procedures for the waiver of the immunity of a member. at the level of the committee on legal affairs, nothing is being done to, firstly, draw up the minutes of the hearing of the member concerned; second, the drawing up or recording of any statement or defence submitted by the member concerned or of any documents submitted to the committee by that member; thirdly, to allow the member concerned to be informed, before his hearing, of the draft report on the waiver of his immunity, since it is drawn up afterwards; fourthly, allow the member to amend the draft report once it has been received. article 150 of the rules of procedure also does not allow the member concerned to defend himself before his peers. this week our colleague nicolas bay will have only two minutes to try to explain mr briois' defence in plenary, all in violation of the charter of fundamental rights, articles 41, 42, 47 and 48, and of the european convention on human rights, article 6, which enshrines the right of every person to be heard. article 6 (1) of the european convention on human rights, which is enshrined as a general principle of community law, is applicable where a dispute concerning civil rights and obligations or a criminal charge is at issue. i therefore ask you - and this is my conclusion - to allow our colleague, steve briois, to defend himself personally before this house when the debate on the request for waiver of his parliamentary immunity, which has been requested by the enl group, takes place.
mr president, i thank you for allowing me to take stock at the beginning of this part-session of what we have been doing for the past year. there was a lot of work to be done and we have already made sure that training is put in place for members. i invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to follow this training and to participate in its development. if you have any recommendations, any advice to give, i'll be very careful who participates and who provides advice to make it better. i would also like to say that we have drawn up a code of good conduct which will have to be signed by all members. it did not exist, so it is also new. we have changed the rules of the committee to have a second parliamentary assistant. i am also pleased with the work of carmela scire, who has come to work alongside olivier plumandon. so we made progress. we have even changed the sanctions against members, because today a member who is found to be harassing by the president will not only be penalised in accordance with the rules, but may also be obliged to pay the salary of the assistant from his parliamentary envelope until the end of the assistant's contract. so please know that we are not sitting idly by. we take great care to listen to complaints. we have set up since september, september 14th i think, a network of trusted people. the most important thing is not to spread the word about what is happening and turn it into a hot topic, but to identify the people, the victims we need to help, and to punish the guilty. that is what we are working towards, and i thank you for taking note of it.
mr president, mr council representative, commissioners, as rapporteur for the european parliament at cop 21, co-rapporteur for cop 23 and member of the parliament's delegation to cop 24 in poland, i believe that universal access to sustainable energy in developing countries must be one of the priorities of this cop 24. access to energy in a safe and predictable way is the challenge of the 21st century, particularly for the african continent, which will have 4.5 billion inhabitants by the end of this century, compared with 1.3 billion at present, or nearly 40% of the world's population. today, two thirds of the african population have no access to electricity. these 860 million people therefore have very difficult access to education, health, the labour market and all areas of life that require electricity. commissioner, at the second edition of the 'one planet summit' organised by the president of the french republic, emmanuel macron, on 26 september in new york, the european commission committed to investing €44 billion in clean energy projects in africa. can you tell us more about it tonight?
mr president, there is obviously a link between the climate issue and the biodiversity issue, but i will concentrate on the biodiversity issue, since that is my subject. we are going to say this very quietly: we are wondering if these cop (conferences of the parties) are useful. of course, we may be tempted to say: 'well, since we are not reaching our goals, we have to postpone them.' we have to think the other way around. we must uphold the objectives of cop14, and to do so we must ask ourselves why we are not able today to make what we proclaim a reality. the reason may be simple: we cannot afford it. perhaps there is a rule to follow, the first one is that you need indicators. indicators to know exactly where we are, in particular, in the progress and the pursuit of our objectives. this is key: if we don't have the tools, we can't know why we succeed or why we fail. the second point - and i insist on this - is that we will soon realize that it is not possible today to preserve biodiversity if we do not challenge one of the fundamental rules we have unfortunately set for ourselves, namely the pursuit of profit at any cost. it is impossible to have an approach where the only values are money and profit and at the same time protect biodiversity. it is absolutely impossible and we must understand that.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, minister, commissioner, our colleague daniele viotti is presenting the draft report on the 2019 budget to our house today. this report defends all our priority areas. i fully support the work of our rapporteur and once again warmly congratulate him. but that said, we are discussing today the last annual budget of this mandate. a budgetary procedure is always highly political; this one is even more so. the council is still proposing cuts at an unprecedented level compared to the commission's proposal, mr minister, and the european union has never before faced so many questions about its future. i will have the great honour of representing our parliament during the budgetary conciliation procedure which will open after this vote. my mandate will be very clear: to give all of european society, young people, project promoters, businesses, researchers and farmers, the means they need to make our europe live in a dignified, effective way, in line with the current economic and ecological challenges. territorial cohesion, the fight against youth unemployment, the reception of refugees, aid for the energy transition, the fight against global warming: progress requires ambitious funding. european citizens have said it many times: they demand a responsible attitude from us. let's not let them down.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, mr minister, mr commissioner, this year again this budget is a budget in crisis and a budget constrained, but brexit has a bit of a silver lining because the reality is that the budget of the european union is in perpetual crisis. as you know, the gaps between budgetary entries and reality have always been widening and we have a duty of sincerity towards the european citizens. we must tell them that the hundreds of billions of people who have signed up, the european dreams sold in this budget, will hardly all be realised, because this requires additional efforts by the states, which may not be up to the task. this part of budget fiction is unethical and does not help clarity and if i were unpleasant, i would say that it is a deception. the rest of the budget is not surprising: it gives the lion's share to defence and security, it provides no additional means for the fight against poverty and it is not up to the new requirements for the fight against climate change and biodiversity loss. let us continue this way, year by year, and the european peoples' distrust of the european union will only grow.
madam president, on the eve of the european elections we must send a clear and voluntary message to the citizens. so let us respond to their impatience by supporting a europe that speaks to them because it prepares their future and because it protects them. preparing for the future means making research a priority, investing in education and vocational training through erasmus, and giving all young people the opportunity to experience europe's diversity. protecting europeans means taking the migration challenges into account and having the appropriate funds to control the external borders frontex and aso , establishing constructive relations with african countries, the balkans, the middle east, and preserving the climate. protecting europeans means giving substance to structured cooperation in defence and security, and mobilizing the means required to combat the challenges and threats posed by globalisation, which states can no longer meet on their own. the 2019 budget... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i would first of all like to thank and congratulate mr viotti and mr rübig on their report on the 2019 budget. first of all, i welcome mr viotti's commitment to young people, because in the face of the dramatic increase in applications under the erasmus+ programme, which has been a victim of its success, the council's position is far behind and almost indecent in relation to needs. similarly, youth unemployment in europe continues to peak at 15%. the programmes of the youth employment initiative and the european social fund are now recognised as effective tools. i therefore welcome the proposal by my colleagues to allocate an additional €580 million to the 'youth employment' initiative. the same applies to rural development, which is subject to a reduction of more than eur 310 million in commitments compared to the commission's proposal, which already drastically reduced the funds allocated to this envelope. yet agricultural policies can be structural in the fight against climate change, even though we are not even reaching the 20% of commitments made before the paris conference was signed. i therefore welcome the rapporteurs' proposal to increase this envelope by eur 20 million. we must also strongly support their proposal to speed up the implementation of the political cohesion programmes, which are the very essence of the union - i would even say the dna of the european union - and which forge solidarity between our territories and our citizens. the proposals put forward by the commission and the council do not live up to the ambitions nor the needs of the european union in these times of crisis of confidence. the budget still has its main shortcomings, and i am preaching a little here for my parish, an inappropriate and under-sized multiannual financial framework. the same mistakes should not be repeated in the future.
the rapporteur. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, fictitious rapporteurs, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to thank the negotiating team of this parliament and the european commission for the work we have done together. we shall vote tomorrow on the report on the revision of the directive on the quality of drinking water in europe. the purpose of this directive is to review the quality parameters of drinking water and to propose a new method of risk assessment to prevent the dangers and risks of pollutants more in advance. almost 20 years after its entry into force, the drinking water directive is now in need of revision in order to align quality parameters with scientific progress and to take account of emerging substances. i believe that we in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety have adopted a coherent report which defends the interests of european citizens, which takes account of the strong constraints of suppliers, member states and local authorities, but which also strongly supports the european commission's risk-based approach. we all agree: access to quality water is a necessity for europe, a necessity for its citizens. promoting access to quality water for european citizens at an affordable cost, in full transparency vis-à-vis the european consumer, is also a requirement we can share. the report therefore presents several major issues: access to water, public accountability and finally the quality parameters required by the revised directive. on the issue of access to water, the provision of quality water is of course a priority that we share, but i regret that the european commission has integrated the issue of access to water into the revision of the drinking water directive, thus blurring the primary message on the quality of water distributed in europe. too many citizens still have unjustified doubts about the quality of tap water. it is true that our member states differ in their institutional functioning and in their physical reality, and we must take account of this diversity. the parliament's report already goes beyond the european commission's ambitions on access to water by proposing that member states promote universal access to water, i.e. access to water for all in the european union. i am pleased to have succeeded in integrating this balance, which respects the principle of subsidiarity and which i will be able to defend during the trilogue negotiations. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety called for greater transparency and public information on the quality of water supplied. the quality and price of water are factors which must be brought to the consumer's attention, both to preserve the resource and to encourage the consumption of tap water rather than bottled water. however, i would like to draw the attention of the european commission and the council to the fact that the objective of transparency must be to improve water quality and consumer education, and not to disclose information that is sensitive from an economic and strategic point of view, which in the current context poses a security risk. as regards quality parameters, i regret, ladies and gentlemen, that the world health organization, the leading institution in the field of pollutants and health protection, has not been given more weight in the original proposal and in the debates in the european parliament. in a particularly sensitive context in terms of health security, the challenge for the european institutions today is to assess the risks associated with each pollutant as best as possible. i find it surprising to say the least that the who, which is often taken as a reference by our institution to obtain more constraints, is now being bypassed by those who wish to amend the report in order to reduce the reference value for some of the dangerous substances, in particular chemical compounds such as endocrine disruptors and perfluorides. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, i think it is high time that a directive which is so important to our people should be revised after 20 years - yes, 20 years. my dear colleagues, ideals can bring us together, pragmatism and realism may divide us; i'm going to join the other side.
for the greens/efa group madam president, i would like to begin by congratulating the commission on its proposal. it is not common, but i think it is an ambitious proposal, because indeed the revision of this directive must be ambitious to ensure consumer protection. i would like to make three points. firstly, water quality: it is essential to protect health and to take account of all nitrates, drug residues, pesticides, endocrine disruptors, etc. but i would like to include perfluorocarbons and pfas (polyfluoroalkyls and perfluoroalkyls) as a whole, and not to distinguish between long chains and short chains, as you do, mr dantin. it is global because there is persistence and bioaccumulation. the second point is access to water, which i consider a fundamental human right. in the amendments you say: 'we must encourage access to free water in restaurants and in the administration'. access to water should be guaranteed, it should be a right, rather than encouraged. and the third point is about transparency. there has to be transparency, people have to have access... (the president withdrew the floor)
the rapporteur. mr president, i would like to thank each of those who have taken part in this debate and to offer some reflections. i do not know whether we represent one million, two million or 500 million of our fellow citizens, but what i am sure of is that the vast majority of european citizens are calling on us to provide access to water for all, which requires control of costs, control of expenditure, in order to enable everyone to consume as much water, and of good quality, as he wishes. many observations have been made on the chemical data. i wouldn't want us to get into some kind of a scallop race. science is science. however, there is no harmonised measurement standard for, for example, microplastics. the proposal before you introduces it. we know that endocrine disruptors have an influence in the environment. who tells us that it is not yet able to measure the exact health impact, which is why we have proposed the introduction of a follow-up until the knowledge is developed. i believe that the health of our citizens does not belong to one or the other. the health of our fellow citizens is our collective responsibility and it deserves neither over-bid nor discount. that's the meaning of our common struggle. water quality is one of the main elements of public health in europe. to have an excellent water quality for as many people as possible, and in the shortest possible time, for all, is to ensure good health for our citizens.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, since the 1950s, eight billion tonnes of plastic have been produced and less than 10% has been recycled. with time frames ranging from a century to a millennium to degrade, and exponential use in our societies, this plastic waste is everywhere, especially in our oceans and our atmosphere. france, the world's second largest maritime country, is particularly affected. recycling is necessary but not sufficient, since the production of recycled plastic requires the introduction of new plastic, contributing to the permanent increase in waste. similarly, some so-called 'biodegradable' plastics do not disappear. plastic breaks down into micro-particles or endocrine disruptors that are found absolutely everywhere. water, food, but also atmosphere, toys, floors, furniture, makeup, everything goes. in short, the dramatic consequences for health, and especially in the early stages of life, when our hormones play as important a role as genes in physiological development. here, the impacts may prove irreversible for our children. the only solution is to limit these plastic products wherever substitutes exist and then ban them from the market, and finally we must consider reducing consumption for others. france and europe must be at the forefront of this transition.
in writing. the debate on 22/10/2018 on employment and social policies in the euro area in the european parliament paints an optimistic and truncated picture of employment. he forgets to mention that unemployment is twice as high in the eurozone (8.3%) as in the other countries (4.2%). he highlights germany, but can we believe its unemployment statistics (3.4%) in june 2018 as only 5% of the 1.2 million refugees who arrived in 2015-2016 are working full-time in 2017. this means that over 1 million people are excluded from the unemployment figures. meanwhile, in the euro area, 1 in 2 unemployed has been unemployed for more than a year and 10% of workers are poor. as a solution, the report calls for more structural reforms and greater inclusiveness. integration of migrants and refugees into the labour market would thus be one of the three solutions to maintaining pension systems. worse, the majority parties (epp, alde, s&d) have rejected our amendments on priority employment for european citizens and the unemployed. this confirms that brussels does not want to build a great europe but a small world.
mr president, just a few days after the report of the intergovernmental panel on climate change was presented, the department of aude in south-west france has just experienced unprecedented flooding. i have experienced the floods of 1992, i have experienced the floods of 1999, and i have just experienced these floods, and each time there were deaths. this time, 14 people were killed, 16,000 families were affected, and over 200 million dollars in property was damaged. this is an emergency! as the un conference meets today in katowice for cop 24, we must remember that there is an urgent need for collective action on climate. i would also like to say emphatically that we must jointly review the european union solidarity fund, and in particular the trigger point for this fund, because the further we go, the more these climate incidents are affecting limited areas with unprecedented intensity. these floods in judea are historic: we have never reached such thresholds in terms of material and human damage.
mr. speaker, colleagues, last month, a security breach leaked the personal data of some 50 million facebook users proving that despite the contrite apologies expressed in the wake of the cambridge analytica scandal, there is definitely something rotten in the realm of mark zuckerberg. what is the true nature of facebook? this is the most serious of the breaches in a confidential memo from one of the vice presidents. we connect people, period. maybe it'll cost a life by exposing someone to stalkers, maybe someone will die in a coordinated terrorist attack using our tools. hey, yeah, ladies and gentlemen, that's exactly their own definition. again, facebook is not neutral. backed by its legions of moderators, it is zealously censoring a myriad of conservative accounts while across the mediterranean in libya, armed militias communicate with impunity. by controlling the information and communications of millions of individuals, facebook has thus become the arm of a totalitarian censorship with variable geometry. to compromise on that, our democracies will be forever upended and the next election will be truncated by people without faith or law.
mr president, it must no longer be possible for personal data to be used without the users' knowledge. the cambridge analytica scandal has shown the immense power we have allowed to accumulate in the hands of companies who have their way with our personal data. it's time to take back control of our data to keep control of our lives. let's open our eyes. to accept that our data is exploited for profiling and political targeting would not only be an individual defeat, but a collective abdication. to let facebook and its algorithms determine the political messages we receive is to accept a form of voluntary servitude. at a time when the truth itself is threatened by the proliferation of infox, our freedom of opinion is linked to our clear knowledge of who is addressing us and for what purpose. do we want homo numericus to remain a free citizen? so all political content must be identifiable as such and we must know who is behind it. it is really the minimum and it is urgent.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, by its functioning, or rather its dysfunctions, but also and above all by its political orientations, the european union not only does not ensure the future of the european nations - that is the debate we are having today - but in reality it is becoming increasingly anti-european. although they defend themselves, some are probably not unhappy with this development, since they have never sought to ensure independence and power on a continental scale. in reality, they see the construction of europe as a mere step towards a global village and global governance. but i am convinced that there is still time to save europe from the current drift of the european union. with our allies and the national forces advancing across our continent, we want to build a europe that lives up to the genius of our civilization and that once again allows our nations to shine across the world, to be strong and respected on the international stage, whether individually or collectively. this europe does not require a european commission which decides everything and nothing, which is both all-powerful and powerless. the commission has not been able to protect our companies against chinese dumping or the extraterritoriality of us law. i take this opportunity to point out that the european union is always in a hurry to give lessons on the rule of law to poland, hungary or, tomorrow, romania, to give lessons on human rights to russia, but it is deafeningly silent on the barbaric murder of journalist khashoggi at the behest of riyadh in the saudi consulate in istanbul. so yes, we must put an end to this bureaucracy that is off the ground and without democratic legitimacy. the commission, on the other hand, claims to be transparent and independent in the decisions it takes on a daily basis which affect more than 500 million europeans, but it is in the utmost opacity that it concludes free trade agreements all the way. these treaties organise unfair competition, which is causing the deindustrialisation of our countries and the ruin of our agriculture, whether it be the ceta, which is already in force but has not yet been ratified by national parliaments, the projects currently under discussion with mercosur or the countries of oceania, or the agreement signed this summer by jean-claude juncker in secret with japan and, as recently as last friday, with singapore. subject to the market, the commission's europe is also the europe of resignation because its leaders do not take office and obey the people less than the unelected officials around them, as well as the judges of the european court of human rights and the court of justice of the union. we are regularly told about european protectionism, but in 1997 the treaty of amsterdam abrogated article 44 (2) of the treaty of rome, which provided for the development of a natural preference between member states. and the court of justice of the european union reversed some of the few anti-dumping measures taken by the commission at the time. this is what french essayist eric zemmour called "the coup d'etat of the judges". since the 1970s, political power has been gradually stripped of its prerogatives by the judiciary, first at national level and now at european level. so, beyond our sovereignty, it is democracy and its foundations that are in danger. nor can we claim european solidarity with a punitive commission which seeks to punish member states which do not submit to its ideology, particularly on migration, which is now being made into a new human right. we need genuine cooperation on the big challenges such as the protection of external borders and energy and environmental issues. but no! we cannot claim to want to preserve our ecosystem while continually encouraging unrestrained transcontinental free trade, which is by its very nature profoundly anti-ecological. that is why it is time to re-shape the european construction and to reorient it away from utopias and dogmas.
the rapporteur. madam vice-president, in accordance with the rules of our assembly, i formally request that the report be referred back to committee and that it be the basis for interinstitutional negotiations.
the agenda calls for the debate on the commission statement on the commission work programme for 2019 (2018/2850 ((rsp)).
madam president, mr vice-president, i wonder if the european commission wants to be the gravedigger of the european project. that's my question to you. with monsanto and bayer having just been convicted on appeal by the us courts this morning, with 1.3 million european citizens having signed the 'stop glyphosate' initiative, with this parliament having set up a committee of inquiry into the authorisation procedures for pesticides in europe following the 'monsanto papers' and the controversial renewal of glyphosate, what are you doing to protect the health of 500 million european citizens? you are opposing the ban imposed by the brussels capital region on the use of glyphosate-based products in violation of the precautionary principle. do you know, mr vice-president, that human health is the number two concern of europeans at the moment i am speaking? do you think that such a decision is timely and encourages citizens to go to the polls from 23 to 26 may? i refer you to article 191 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which provides that 'union policy on the environment shall aim at a high level of protection ... and shall be based on the precautionary principle'. i hope that the european commission plans to propose in 2019 a revision of the european legislation on pesticides that addresses the shortcomings of the current system and the expectations of 500 million europeans in this area.
madam president, mr vice-president, i see your work programme for 2019, and i want to say to you in this parliament, focus on the essentials and make sure that we can get results. in this context and in the context of my responsibilities in the european parliament, i should like to stress a few points. firstly, as regards the supervision of banks and financial markets, we need to implement the reform of the supervisory authorities, and for that we need the support of the commission. you also have to convince the council to act on deposit guarantee, because otherwise the whole banking union system will collapse. we must also convince the council, with your support, of the need to deal with the so-called ccps, the clearing houses which will be shaken by the departure of our british friends. in the area of taxation, perhaps i have misread your work programme, but i did not get the impression that you put enough emphasis on two very important aspects: both the taxation of digital technology and the famous common corporate tax base. finally, i fully agree with my colleague kathleen van brempt that you need to rethink economic governance in the light of the sustainable development goals.
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the debate on the statement by the council and the commission on the 'cumex files' scandal: financial crime and the shortcomings of the current legal framework (2018/2900 ((rsp)).
the commission is also proposing that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment. after the tax evasion in tax havens, we are now faced with a fraud of banks demanding from the taxpayer the refund of taxes never paid. the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all the taxpayers, including those who are not taxpayers themselves. and then, why not admit it, the real financial transaction on high frequency operations would have undoubtedly allowed to go ahead against such fraud, against the manipulation of the rights of the title of which we can see, here too, one of the impacts. the exchange of information between national tax administrations is essential, as you said, but we also say that these frauds are carried out at european level. we must therefore find a european solution. it is also for the european supervisory authorities to find the means to act in this area in accordance with their mandate. it is in this spirit that this parliament is determined to act by the end of its term.
mr president, the despicable murder of journalist jamal khashoggi should finally make it possible to stop turning a blind eye to the barbarity of the riyadh regime. when you speak, mrs. mogherini, you give rise to doubts. let us not be fooled by the intentions of turkey, which is suddenly becoming a defender of freedom of expression. it took three weeks for the saudi regime to admit that the journalist was indeed dead in the premises of its embassy let's move on to the different versions, developments and information. 18 people have reportedly been arrested, several close to the crown prince have been removed from office over a simple fight that went wrong. we're gonna make the lamplighters pay for it. or rather, the ones who were wrong to get caught. but who's the mastermind? is the tiger squadron a reality? who does he obey? yes, we need an independent international investigation under the auspices of the un and we must break off relations with this regime which represses its opponents, including in blood, and finances international terrorism and, above all, yes, we must stop selling them arms in violation of international law.
mr president, it was therefore the murder of journalist khashoggi that led western governments to pretend to have discovered the true face of saudi arabia, the antithesis of the sympathetic petro-monarchy it claims to be. in february, the saudi foreign minister, in front of our foreign affairs committee, engaged in an exercise in 'taqîya', praising the reformist policy of the crown prince for an islam which is, i quote, 'open, inclusive and tolerant'. the western chancelleries were only too willing to be tricked into not giving up their lucrative contracts. for example, when saudi arabia openly supported jihadists in syria, western governments on its side preferred to condemn russia in its fight against terrorists. the saudi army is bombing civilians in yemen, our governments are still supplying them with weapons. her entry to the human rights council and the un commission on the status of women had only led to mild protests. without the western hypocrisy and the sense of impunity saudi arabia enjoys, this journalist might still be alive today.
mr president, the saudi authorities can no longer hide the terrible truth: journalist jamal khashoggi was cut up alive and the disappearance of his body speaks volumes about the terrible fate he suffered, the victim of a murder planned days in advance. the real face of mohamed ben salman, the darling of the media, politicians and lobbies in europe, is that of a sinister, bloodthirsty and brutal tyrant, living in the opulence of petrodollars. he has already shown in the brutal war against the people of yemen, in the barbaric repression of the shiite minorities in his country and in the hunt for opponents, such as raif badawi, that he was undoubtedly one of the worst incarnations of the power of this real rogue state that is saudi arabia. saudi arabia, which promotes radical islam all over the world and funds the construction of radical mosques and whose responsibility in the attacks of september 11, 2001 is overwhelming. so instead of focusing on russia, put aside this rogue state that is nothing but an institutionalized daesh.
mr president, this murder is unacceptable. but what is more unacceptable: the death of a journalist, a muslim brother, or the millions of deaths in iraq in an illegal war that we approved? turkey, which is eliminating its political opponents in a more discreet way and which we continue to support? the silent deaths of those around mrs clinton, who no one talks about but who have been eliminated? my dear colleagues, we must not condemn unilaterally. you'd have more credibility if your outrage was directed at any regime that murders its opponents, and believe me, state crimes are numerous.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, madam high representative, the rise in tensions in the azov sea has a simple cause: the decision of the united states, announced at the end of august, to increase its arms deliveries to ukraine, and in particular to its navy. ukraine, the bankrupt government that was created by a coup, wants nato to conduct manoeuvres in the sea of azov, in violation of the 2003 russian-ukrainian treaty. these decisions show that washington, like kiev, is seeking a confrontation with russia, in defiance of the minsk agreements. once again, the european union is complicit in this escalation by supporting nato and its recent military exercises in ukraine. and we have, logically, on the one hand, the ukrainians' denunciation of their 1997 friendship treaty with russia and, on the other hand, the united states' denunciation of the treaty limiting the euro-missiles. all this to make europe a new nuclear battlefield between east and west. the european union claims to promote peace, but in fact encourages war in europe.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, a genuinely democratic europe should respect the sovereignty of each of the european nations that make up it, but the european union does not. it is scandalously meddling in the internal affairs of some of its member states, such as hungary, poland and now romania. more seriously, in its resolution of 25 october 2016, the european parliament dreamed up the vade-mecum of placing member states under political tutelage. it recommends that a panel of experts, elected by no one and from nowhere, be given the power to rate states as children on compliance with different principles. the separation of powers, freedom of expression or the independence of the judiciary. in an unintentional tribute to the french poet jacques prévert, who would have laughed at it, the resolution assigns this panel of experts to give the states a colourful score. green for the good guys, orange for the suspects, and red for the bad guys. for those countries that get a red rating, the sanction is terrible: the activation of article 7 of the treaty on european union leads to the suspension of the voting rights of the offending country in the council. this is all nonsense and i regret that we have brought out these old moons today. the european parliament would gain credibility if it listened a little more to the aspirations of the people instead of always giving lessons. the europe of nations, which i wish to see, will treat the european states with respect and not with the morgue of this unworthy resolution.
in writing. our debate is of the utmost importance because it allows us to set the clock back. i hear those who denounce the alleged impotence of parliament to respond to the authoritarian drift in europe. but we have solutions beyond the article 7 procedure. in october 2016, two years ago, this assembly voted for a mechanism for the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. we urged the commission to make a legislative proposal but our request was not taken up. however, serious violations have only increased in the last two years. this mechanism would include a permanent dashboard showing the situation in all states. parliament and the council will discuss country-specific recommendations annually. it is a systematic and comprehensive monitoring, which allows europe to react before it is too late. this proposal already exists in relation to our economic governance. the union has developed a solid legislative base to monitor economic and fiscal rules. we simply ask for the same intransigence and firmness when it comes to our fundamental values, when it comes to the fundamental rights of our citizens.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the schengen information system is an indispensable tool for guaranteeing freedom of movement in the schengen area and the security of citizens. my group supports proposals that improve the exchange of relevant information between member states, which is essential to effectively combat terrorism, organised crime and child abduction. but the extension of the use of this file for return decisions will contribute to increasing the criminalisation of migration. in addition, threats to public policy are too vague a concept to allow some member states to abuse it by entering alerts into the system on strictly political grounds. this is the case for example in poland, which bans the ukrainian human rights defender lyudmyla kozlovska from entering the schengen area via this type of alert. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of personal data.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, will sis ii be the new big brother of europe? the schengen information system, created in 1990, was the counterpart to the abolition of border controls. it mainly concerned stolen vehicles, missing persons and third-country nationals who were banned from entering the country. a simple police cooperation tool. its scope has been steadily expanding in terms of the reports included, the data collected and the number of people with access to it. more than 5 billion visits, 76 million alerts and more than 2 million users. i'm concerned about the rights of the people who were reported and had nothing to say. the ratio is not good and we will continue to widen the field, including persons suspected of having the intention of committing an offence. suspicion of intent: this is a new criminal standard which is quite far from the presumption of innocence. we can put just about anyone - we just heard - on a criminal record without the people involved even really knowing. the commission will also register all third-country nationals who are the subject of a return decision or a refusal of entry. this is an additional step in the criminalisation of migrants in so-called 'irregular' situations, the vast majority of whom are, let us remember, people in distress. the collection of alphanumeric data, facial images, finger or palm data and even dna in some cases is also increasing. yes, our citizens have a right to security, and new technologies can help to achieve this, but not at any price, not by developing a climate of widespread suspicion at the expense of fundamental rights, especially in the wrong hands. for us, it is no!
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the commission, thank you for having re-framed a little bit the discussion we are going to have this morning on the european council, because we have heard a wonderful electoral programme from mr timmermans. but i shall simply speak, as you do, of the conclusions of this council because from salzburg to brussels, from last chance to last chance, the summits pass but the problems remain. they say, "let's wait a little longer, but we're running out of time, we're running out of time". we are in a moment of extreme urgency, a few months away from the european elections which are threatening the future of europe. our national leaders are meeting but not deciding. every week we are given the same litany of promises and declarations of good intentions, and behind it is the blockade. let us look at the menu of this council: entry, emigration and internal security. we know the answers. if this council has indeed, mr vice-president, made it possible to achieve a consensus on the external dimension of the problem and cooperation with the countries of origin, no lasting solution is in sight as regards the internal dimension and the organisation of solidarity. the main issue is brexit. despite the remarkable efforts of michel barnier we are still leaving without an agreement. at least it will have served to remind us of the unity of the european countries and to put theresa may's united kingdom in front of its responsibilities. my dear british friends, the ball is in your court. finally, the euro area. it is clear that if we had another debt crisis tomorrow - and this is a real risk - there is no guarantee that we would do better. we have not yet learned all the lessons of the past, but we have only managed to agree on the need, which has been repeated many times, to strengthen the banking union. that's not enough to reassure. the balance sheet is not rosy. european asylum policy: at a standstill the reform of the euro area: at a standstill! the taxation of large digital companies, a measure of fiscal justice that our fellow citizens have been eagerly awaiting: at a standstill! brexit: the deadlock is over! as for italy's budget, which could tip the entire eurozone into a new crisis, we pretend not to see the elephant in the room. and courage, where did courage go? europe is balanced, on the edge of the razor, as if it were being breastfed. however, it is not the fault of the commission - which has never been more willing than today - or of parliament, which is redoubling its efforts to complete the many texts currently on the table in time, especially with regard to the next multiannual financial framework. we are making progress, we are moving forward, but president tusk himself told us that we were far from an agreement. it is not easy to reach agreement at 28, but as we have seen recently in the field of defence, when the political will is there, no obstacle is insurmountable. what does this tell us? the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used effectively. some are drivers, but many are standing on the brake pedal. at this rate, the exit isn't far. (applause) i would like to thank
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, i would like to start by reminding mr bullmann and a number of people who were moved by mr kamall's remarks that there is no plenary session, no day of plenary session in which we do not hear a torrent of insults and aggressive and outrageous words from the left or the liberals accusing us of extremism, particularly against all those who, like our group, simply defend a different conception of europe. we are for freedom, including freedom of expression. you cannot stand it, you cannot stand that we should have a different vision of european construction from yours. the european council last week dealt with three closely linked subjects: migration, internal security and external relations. in its final communiqué, it refers to the 'return directive' adopted by our parliament in 2008. the problem is that in the first months of its implementation, two judgments of the luxembourg court of justice have considerably reduced its scope. in the next paragraph, the text of the conclusions states that 'more should be done to facilitate effective returns'. the problem is that, not to mention the adverse judgments of both the court of justice of the european union (cjeu) and the european court of human rights (echr), the countries of origin of illegal immigrants often refuse to issue consular passes. so while france has hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants on its soil, its government is unable to enforce its laws. there are, of course, some bilateral agreements, for example between spain and morocco, but they are all the less applied because the european union refuses to make its financial aid conditional on effective control of migration flows. worse still, last july the commission took hungary to the luxembourg court to have it repeal its law against left-wing associations which help settle illegal immigrants. so how credible can you be when you claim to want to 'facilitate the actual return' of illegal immigrants?
madam president, commissioners, mr timmermans, who made you king? the european union is the creation of its member states, you must be their servant, not their master! the european states have an interest in signing a comprehensive free trade agreement with the united kingdom, it is the largest trade deficit in the union. but you prefer to punish this great democracy to protect the brussels system. you act in the interests of ideology, not states. you want to humiliate the united kingdom to prevent the people from having their sovereignty. you are repeating this after the referendums of 1992 in denmark, 2001 and 2008 in ireland, 2005 in france and the netherlands, 2016 in the netherlands. you continue with italy, humiliated too. you boast of promoting democracy and the rule of law? in truth, the european union is a permanent coup d'état against the people. that is, a dictatorship. what europe needs is brexit, the exit of brussels and its commission from europe so that the europe of nations and peoples can live.
madam president, mr tusk, when i heard you a little over two and a half hours ago, i must admit that i laughed. i wondered then whether you had come here to make fun of parliament or to provoke us, because you know very well that no concrete conclusions have been reached on the asylum package. and since you have been asked this on several occasions, i would like you to explain to me how, for more than two years, no concrete position has been taken on this matter. whereas, at the same time, it's quite simple to lean in and reach an agreement on reinforcing the borders, that's fine by itself. at the same time, the member states are pressing us to reform the return directive as quickly as possible, and moreover, by taking on board the french model, which is the most ineffective in this area. so you see, parliament is not the recording chamber of the council's wishes and we do not want to be trapped by this manipulation which is not ultimately aimed at having an effective reform, but simply to satisfy the populists.
mr president, i have received agreement from president tajani to speak on this matter at the conference of presidents.
mr president, i warmly thank the house for voting in favour of my amendment for a major european programme to clean up the oceans and continents of plastic. i think this is an important step forward, but it will not be enough because we need a radical change in our production methods to allow us to avoid the worst and that tomorrow our planet will be renamed the "plastic planet". we're already in the midst of a major environmental disaster, with billions of tons of plastic accumulating in nature and our oceans, and, less visible but just as harmful, these microplastics that end up in the air we breathe and the salt we eat. that is why we must now put an end to the half measures and finally ban single-use plastics.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, firstly, the treaty of lisbon is tainted from the outset with a violation of the sovereignty of the peoples, since its twin brother, the draft european constitution, was rejected by several peoples, including those of france, the netherlands and ireland. in spite of this, a treaty is being applied which codifies ultra-liberal economic and social policies, competition between all against all is being made the guide for all choices, even if it only worsens social and territorial divisions, unemployment, precariousness and poverty. we are cutting national budgets, but that is not why we are reducing debts. the urgent task today is to rebuild this european construction by bringing the peoples together in a new social, democratic and ecological treaty to face the enormous challenges that lie ahead: building the europe of work, fighting tax evasion, taxing the giants who do not contribute to the common good in the european union, defending and creating new public services, using the monetary creation of the central bank for human development and environmental transition, and being an actor in global cooperation for disarmament and peace.
mr president, we are suffering when we talk about the lisbon treaty because this treaty is first and foremost a violation of democracy, since it was voted 'no' in the french referendum. this treaty also calls into question the budgetary sovereignty of the states, it is the preference for absurd rules - thinking of berlin, rather than the happiness of the people - it is the submission to the 'ordoliberalism' that closes the door, everywhere in europe, to social progress. and in practice, this treaty has organized the challenge of public services, the seizure of common goods, it has organized endless austerity and has taken care to make the european union a haven for lobbies and tax evaders. jean-claude juncker said that there can be no democratic choice against the treaties. i am saying that there can be no democracy and no progress in these european treaties.
mr president, i am convinced of one thing: nationalists are a threat to the construction of europe. their lies, their bad policies, their grip on society, are causing more and more europeans to lose confidence. they corrupt our minds, they fragment our societies. their lies and deceptive arguments produce nothing but fear, hatred and violence. so what do we do, colleagues? to defeat them, we must first expose them to the light, like vampires, show their true colors. in the french socialist delegation we scrutinize their vote: to strengthen gun control to fight terrorism, they vote against; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the end of the year. all measures to combat pollution, including plastic today, they vote against; the european union's border security is being strengthened, and they are voting against it, ladies and gentlemen! they claim to protect, they destroy. this is their true face, look at them at every vote and you will see that the far right leads to the ruin of europeans. another future is possible, i am not talking about liberalism, but about a third way, that of social progress, humanism, solidarity, and it is embodied by the socialists.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, you are therefore today seeking to protect the heritage of syria and iraq. it would almost be laughable if it weren't so tragic. if you wanted to protect the ten-thousand-year-old cultural heritage of these regions, you should not have thrown it under the bombs, or left it at the mercy of daesh and barbaric islamists dressed up as rebels for the occasion. on the other hand, it seems that the commission is no longer even concerned with controlling the entry of people and goods into the territory, ladies and gentlemen, that is the responsibility of the states. it is a sad paradox! you who encourage illegal immigration and dogmatic free trade every day, you are here professing almost a protectionism that leaves the dreamer. how do you intend to enforce these perfectly ridiculous measures? by degrading the nation states, you have reduced their customs administrations to nothing. only they could have acted, indeed only the states could have acted. you will not have the means for your futile politics, you will not give yourself the means, you will advance according to your impulses or pious wishes without men or means. then we can simply note, note or appreciate this act or these efforts. i don't think it was. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed the year of cultural heritage, so you are posing as the defender of the cultural heritage of humanity while you are selling off the cultural heritage of europe, you are selling off the cultural heritage of my country and of my france. our villages, our bell towers, our history, our monuments, our arts and crafts are being looted and you neglect them, you peddle them blindly and often out of contempt. so it's safe to say this isn't about... (the president withdrew the floor) (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by a blue card (rule 162 (8))
the answer is 'blue card'. of course not, ma'am, i don't think that's enough. i think that orderly charity begins with oneself and i also think that the writer said, "god laughs at men who lament the effects of which they cherish the causes".
in writing. how can we forget the methodical and cleverly planned sacking of the museum of baghdad, rich in a thousand years of history? tragedies of this magnitude are not uncommon, especially in a middle east destabilized by systematic western interference. the last avatar is the looting by the islamic state, which is said to have derived about 20% of its income from the trafficking of works of art, including the palmyra site, which is listed by unesco as a world heritage site. in fact, even the famous "arab spring" saw the cairo museum robbed of fifty-four priceless objects. the scale and opacity of the vast networks involved in this traffic require a concerted european and international response. i am thinking in particular of the un resolutions imposing moratoriums on works from iraq and then syria, while other parts of the world are now experiencing similar tragedies. i am also thinking of the existing conventions, the main one, the 1970 unesco convention, has so far been ratified by only about 120 states. the text is certainly a step in the right direction, and is balanced and does not harm the art sector and its small businesses.
the rapporteur. - mr president, it is with satisfaction that i see this vast undertaking being completed today. four years, four years we have been working on this revision of the regulation on veterinary medicines with the triple objective of protecting animal health - and therefore human health - the fight against antibiotic resistance and the competitiveness of our farms and our veterinary medicines industry. we can say without blushing, the result is a great step forward for public health. i would like to thank my fellow fictitious rapporteurs, commissioner andriukaitis and the bulgarian presidency, who have all made it possible to achieve this excellent result. because beyond farmers or pet owners, the use of veterinary medicines affects us all. it has a direct impact on our environment and our diet, in short, on our health. the main focus of this review was the fight against antibiotic resistance, despite the alarming findings of the world health organisation. according to who, antibiotic-resistant infections could soon cause more deaths each year than cancer. the fight against this scourge must begin on farms where antibiotics have long been used purely for preventive purposes. in 2015, the use of antibiotics in veterinary medicine was still twice as high as in human medicine. the regulation should make it possible to change this situation permanently by means of more rigorous surveillance, a stronger framework for the use of antibiotics and the prohibition of the veterinary use of antimicrobials of critical importance for human medicine. it should also be remembered that the first of the solutions is prevention, in particular through biosecurity measures. antibiotics should be used only as a last resort and in no case to compensate for non-compliance with good farming practice. our agricultural model must adapt to this. i would like to stress that these new rules are not intended to stigmatise livestock farmers and farmers, whose difficulties we know, but on the contrary to help them to take better care of their herds, and because antibiotic resistance is a global phenomenon, we have been keen to impose reciprocity in our standards for the use of antibiotics in the text. it's a major success. there will be no more imports of meat from countries which continue to allow, for example, antibiotics as growth factors. no more hypocrisy in imposing standards on our farmers that others do not respect. europe is changing the rules of the game and they will now be the same for everyone. the text of course includes other important developments besides the question of antibiotics. through targeted incentives and reduction of administrative burden, it will in particular stimulate innovation in the veterinary market, which is facing a real problem of availability of treatments. it is therefore a comprehensive, cross-cutting approach that promises to transform the world of animal health for the better and in a sustainable way. these changes will benefit all those involved in the sector, which includes farmers and veterinarians, but also all our citizens who care about what they put on their plates. in particular, with its particular approach to health and environmental issues, europe is thus firmly at the forefront of the fight against antibiotic resistance.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, this new regulation reaffirms the commitment of the member states and their citizens to the prudent use of antibiotics and veterinary medicines in livestock farming. the commission's proposals for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances are not in line with the commission's proposals. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. in order to protect the health of our fellow citizens, the european union must enforce its standards for the use of veterinary medicines and must clearly prohibit the import of products derived from animals raised in conditions which do not meet these rules. as with cloning and growth hormones, we must stand firm and not tolerate any failure in these devices. i would like to conclude by saying that in a very tense situation for our farmers, it is especially important to inform our fellow citizens about the care that is given to livestock in our european countries with very strict standards and protective of human health.
mr president, commissioner, i think that we are living through an important moment tonight because the package that is being proposed to us is both a step and a real step forward. i would therefore like to thank very sincerely the negotiating team for this package, with a special mention to my colleague, mrs françoise grossetête, who has given a lot on this issue for many, many months. the package that is on the table tonight is a balanced package to tackle antimicrobial resistance, which is - as has been said before, i will not dwell on it - a scourge and a challenge of our time. the proposal before us maintains the possibility for veterinarians to advise and sell medicines to farmers. this is not an anecdotal fact: it is important to maintain veterinary medicine in rural areas, otherwise we risk seeing veterinarians go to urban areas, where the clientele is of a different nature and the profitability of the practices is much higher. this report contains a fundamental breakthrough on the reciprocity of standards: it introduces this long-awaited principle on the use of antibiotics for imported food. this means that the european union will no longer import meat from a country that has used antibiotics as growth factors and is on the list of critically important antimicrobials. in short, a europe that strengthens consumer protection, a europe that ensures food security, i think we are doing our duty here, the duty that our fellow citizens expect.
i'm the reporter. mr president, i would first like to thank all our colleagues who spoke and gave their support. i would like to thank the fictitious rapporteurs once again, because this teamwork is so important and it is precisely this that enables us to arrive at a text, a regulation, which i believe will be particularly effective. it is progress - i said it - and to some of our colleagues who are sadly no longer here and who complained about increasing bureaucracy, i will say that through this regulation we have put in place a new pharmacovigilance system which is more flexible, more efficient and less bureaucratic, with accelerated procedures which should allow laboratories to react quickly in the event of epizootic diseases, for example, without compromising our quality and safety standards, which are among the highest in the world. and then i'll also say that we were concerned about the environment. he is not forgotten. we know we're finding residues of veterinary products. as such, the text provides for a better assessment of the impact of these substances on the environment. finally, when i hear about the extra cost, i think that the human value is overlooked and that we are actually trying to protect what we want to prevent, which is that by 2050 - as the studies predict - there will be 10 million deaths in europe because of antibiotic resistance. so thank you all and i hope that many of us will vote in favour of this regulation.
the presentation of this report today marks the culmination of a long cycle of work of almost two years on a fundamental text for the future of european transport policy. the revision of the european directive governing road charging systems on the more than 136 000 km of the trans-european road network represents a unique opportunity to take better account of the impact of road transport on our society. we are revising this text because the 'euro-redundancy' directive, which has made it possible to combat discrimination between residents and non-residents, has now reached its limits in terms of contributing fully to the objectives of the white paper on transport, namely to move towards full application of the 'user-payer' and 'polluter-payer' principles. without strong action and a long-term vision on the evolution of road transport pricing, which accounts for over 70% of transport emissions, we will not achieve our climate targets and we will not respond to the urgent need to better tackle the scourge of air pollution that is affecting our citizens. in the face of these emergencies, attitudes are changing and road users are becoming more aware and sensitive to the environmental impact of road transport. and it is in this perspective that we, as policy makers, will need to show the courage and will to accompany and accelerate this awareness and the transition to fairer and more environmentally friendly road pricing. and i take this opportunity to commend the commissioner for her political courage in putting an ambitious text on the table. the extension of the scope of application to all heavy and light vehicles, the progressive ban on vignette systems and the obligation to adjust tolls according to co2 emissions are all measures which i support and which are reflected in the report which will be put to the vote tomorrow. and the work in the parliamentary committee has improved the european commission's proposal. first, on the 'user pays' principle, the transport committee adopted my proposals to bring forward the end of the vignette to 2023 for heavy vehicles and 2026 for light vehicles, in order to accelerate the transition to fairer pricing based on distance travelled. on the 'polluter pays' principle, the transport committee voted in favour of the application of specific charges linked to pollution standards from 2021 for heavy vehicles and from 2026 for light vehicles. this proposal will make it possible to take environmental and social costs into account in road pricing and will ensure that around 50% of the trans-european road network is covered by the 'polluter pays' principle. alongside the application of these two main principles, the acceptability and transparency of toll systems are at the heart of this report. first, throughout this work i have placed a central importance on the territorial and social dimensions of road infrastructure pricing policies. and to combat the territorial divide, i propose to introduce the possibility of lowering the cost of tolls for frequent users, especially in the peripheries of agglomerations and in remote areas. the current directive did not provide for this possibility of differentiating the toll rates between frequent and occasional users. this is a major step forward that i am proposing to ensure that users who have no other choice but to use their car on a daily basis to get to work can benefit from a preferential rate compared to occasional users. on the subject of territorial cohesion, i also propose to give member states more flexibility to take account of the impact of tolls on peripheral regions. secondly, i am convinced that if we introduce a mandatory reduction in toll revenue to combat the deterioration of road networks and to promote the transition to sustainable mobility, we will strengthen the acceptability of tolls. the tragic incident of the morandi point collapse in genoa reminds us of the cruel lack of investment in the maintenance and safety of road infrastructure in europe. the proposals in my report which establish a compulsory toll will ensure that the revenue from tolls is put to good use in ensuring the safety of road infrastructure. in conclusion, i would like to stress the importance of approaching my report as a coherent whole. the proposals for the application of the 'polluter pays' and 'user pays' principles cannot be analysed without taking account of all the proposals aimed at enhancing the acceptability and transparency of tolls. finally, i would like to thank all the people and organisations with whom i have had constructive exchanges in the process of producing this balanced and ambitious report.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, first of all i would like to thank our rapporteur for the quality of her work. in fact, two recent events have shown us just how topical this issue is. the report of the ipcc (intergovernmental panel on climate change), which has shown an increasingly worrying situation in terms of climate, and we know that transport is unfortunately an element that is not under control, and the morandi bridge tragedy, which has shown that infrastructure perhaps deserves a little more attention from our member states. the european framework for the taxation of externalities and road users must restore two objectives: to be fair and to be effective. and when you see the chaotic landscape in europe on road user taxes, you can tell that the work is considerable. we must in fact return to the externalities of each: depending on the type of vehicle but for all vehicles, depending on the kilometres travelled, taking into account the uses, the times, the place, the existing concessions, this is also an important subject, since there are already licensed areas and also encouraging the improvement of the fleet with positive discrimination for the vehicles that are the least polluting. it is up to each individual to decide whether or not to abolish unfair and ineffective mechanisms, including vignettes, and we of course support this proposal. it will be up to the member states to decide whether or not this system applies, but at least it will put an end to a totally unfair and totally ineffective situation. of course, the tax is not popular, especially when it affects all vehicles. but can we let the situation deteriorate, with rising emissions, major consequences for human health in terms of particulate matter and degraded infrastructure with safety concerns that put human lives at risk? it is desirable that member states place this provision in their national framework for road transport charges and make the necessary adjustments. it is desirable that they agree to allocate their revenue to the object which generates it. all this requires efforts on the part of the member states, on the part of the citizens and on the part of our parliament which, following the commission's proposal, will undoubtedly make its contribution tomorrow, by voting in favour of this important text with a large majority, i hope.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, all the words have been used. we said: "we have to save the climate", "the house is burning but we look away", "we are dancing on a volcano", "all the indicators are red!" today we have a lever for action: a charge on heavy goods vehicles and all vehicles, calculated on the kilometres travelled and taking into account pollution and noise. that's almost €30 billion a year! what's the point? to finance everyday mobility, clean transport for citizens, secure infrastructure, to revive rail freight. but there are some in this house who are against this! who are you kidding? citizens who can no longer breathe because of air pollution, citizens who see their infrastructure collapse, like the genoa bridge, citizens who still expect their elected officials to implement the 'polluter pays' principle to save the climate, because it is common sense. the climate is not waiting, nor is our responsibility or our safety. i would therefore ask you all to adopt this excellent text tomorrow!
mr president, we share the view that the roads in some member states are in a state of disrepair, unsafe and poorly maintained. the answers you give to this problem are contrary to the interests of our fellow citizens. france, like many other member states, is crossed daily by thousands of foreign heavy goods vehicles which do not contribute to the maintenance of our roads by means of taxes. your proposal is to ban the 'eurovignette' model, which has proved its worth in sweden and denmark, and to impose a principle of 'europeanization', which france has tried to fail, via the eco-tax ports. there is no distinction for vehicles from our states, which will have to pay even more for the financing of their country's roads, to which they already contribute largely through taxation. what is worse, you want to tax more people who have to use their cars every day for their personal and professional lives. in france, fuel taxes have risen by 25% in 10 years and will jump again in 2019. we say 'no' to your wish to hit our hauliers and motorists again in the pocket and we want national solutions to tax foreign lorries that do not contribute to the maintenance of our roads.
report by mrs lulling, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (91) 0173 - c3-0314/91) for a directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles many of the concerns raised in this debate are in fact already covered in the report, particularly on issues related to social issues and the principle of subsidiarity. however, i shall return to one particular point, namely that which would suggest that 'excluding light vehicles from the scope of this text would amount to 'defending' road users. it is the opposite, because to exclude light vehicles is to vote against the 75% reduction in tolls for zero-emission vehicles and to vote against the reduction in tolls for cars that emit less co2. the exclusion of light vehicles is therefore a penalty for users who will increasingly move towards clean vehicles and there should be no short-term vision of the future of road infrastructure pricing. excluding light vehicles also means voting against the reduction in tolls for frequent users who have to use toll roads to get to work. but that is not all, excluding cars from the scope also gives the possibility to states to introduce vignette systems which are more discriminatory between residents and non-residents. those who claim to defend road users by excluding light vehicles are doing the opposite: they are opposing fairer road pricing for taxpayers, who in many countries are now paying for road maintenance, and for road users who will not benefit from the modernisation of tolls proposed in this report. in conclusion, i would therefore like to call on all members not to lower the level of ambition of the text in order to arrive at a strong position of the european parliament, particularly with a view to negotiations with the member states.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission welcomes the opportunity today to discuss mr grzyb’s report on the revision of the clean vehicles directive, which is an important part of the clean mobility package. the commission warmly welcomes the progress made in the european parliament on this file and would like to thank mr grzyb and the shadow rapporteurs for their very ambitious work. let me recall the context of the proposal. the paris (cop21) agreement requires substantive emission reductions from all parts of our economy, including transport. the recent special report from the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) on the impacts of climate change is yet another wake-up call in that respect. we must ensure that we are firmly on the path towards zero emission by mid-century. among many other things, this means faster deployment of more efficient transport systems, low— and zero—emission vehicles and increased use of alternative energy sources. public procurement has a special role to play here. this is particularly true in the bus sector, where public procurement represents around 70% of all new vehicle registrations. public authorities are already today leading the way in the fight against climate change. i therefore welcome this general support in the parliament’s report for the objectives and the approach that the commission proposes for the revision of the clean vehicles directive. on some aspects the report goes even further than our initial ambition, by extending its scope to other services and vehicle categories. compared to the commission’s proposal, the report takes a different approach to the definition of clean vehicles. it includes all fuels under the alternative fuels infrastructure directive and introduces sub-targets for low—and zero—emission vehicles. as regards heavy—duty vehicles, as you know, we are not yet able to define emission thresholds. we’re working on it. including all fuels under the alternative fuels infrastructure directive could therefore be considered, provided that a sufficient level of ambition for zero-emission vehicles is maintained throughout the sub-targets. for light—duty vehicles, however, we are able to use emission thresholds to define clean vehicles. in my view, this approach remains the best solution for light—duty vehicles, as it is technology-neutral and more future proof. the amended directive should provide a clear long-term market signal allowing public authorities, manufacturers and investors to plan the transition towards zero—emission mobility, based on the technologies and fuels that they deem most suitable. i am pleased to know that work in the council is also progressing fast and that a general approach is in reach. so let’s therefore all work together to secure a trilogue agreement before the parliament recess. a timely adoption would be an important step towards the de—carbonisation of mobility. we should not postpone this important piece of legislation. i stand, of course, ready to provide all my support in the upcoming negotiations. i welcome your ambition and i really look forward to your debate.
for the greens/efa group mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the only clean vehicle available on the market today is the bicycle: it has zero co2 emissions. that is why, commissioner, i hope that we will step up our efforts to ensure that all cities have more bicycles. the goal for the car of tomorrow is that it too will be zero-emission. and the way is open with this text on vehicles purchased by public procurement, because the transport sector still accounts for 23% of co2 emissions in europe, because most of that 23% is emitted on the road, because the ipcc (intergovernmental panel on climate change) report recently said that we are approaching the last limit to save the climate and because public procurement is 14% of european gdp, a major lever for the transition to sustainable mobility. and in the face of that, the conservatives tell us: the technology is not ready. but why are china and the united states already on the verge of doing so? we have the ability to define what a clean vehicle should be and you conservatives, you leave the door still open to vehicles running on biofuel. but is it really reasonable to look back on the past, while we are taking you into the 21st century? the house is on fire, our lungs are clogged, and you'd rather look elsewhere. after me, the flood. i believe that we must be responsible, open our eyes and that this text must be ambitious.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, 11 000 euros is the price some 500 italian lawyers were willing to pay to obtain a precious sesame: the madrid bar, thus avoiding the excrement of italian habilitation. this ridiculous and scandalous fact is just one of the many absurdities that abound in the fertile soil of the recognition of diplomas and professional titles in europe. french medical students who have left for the more lenient romanian skies will tell you no different. they escaped the numerus clausus, but they secured a post when they returned to france, for better, but especially for worse. especially for the worst: in 2016, a hospital in the paris region excluded six interns trained in romania for professional insufficiency. as employers complain about skills shortages, the union has found nothing better than to march forward towards automatic recognition of qualifications. light years away from a europe of excellence, the result will be a europe of academic excellence and above all of bottom-up leveling.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, after the glyphosate scandal, endocrine disruptors, dieselgate, now the reach circumvention scandal. citizens will be shocked to learn that one third of chemicals used in europe are placed on the market without being tested for their hazardous nature, even though the reach regulation requires it. this means, to put it bluntly, that the chemical industry is breaking the law with impunity by not providing the information required on the carcinogenic, mutagenic or dangerous nature of substances used in the production of food packaging, clothing and toys, i.e. everyday consumer products. we are asking for transparency in this matter and we are asking for the list of names of the companies concerned to be published, just as we are asking, mr president, that the states be reminded of their obligations.
the agenda calls for the debate on the question with request for an oral answer to the commission on the implementation of the regulations on medical devices and in vitro diagnostic medical devices, put to the vote by mairead mcguinness, biljana borzan, boleslaw g. piecha, gesine meissner, kateřina konečnà, margrete auken, piernicola pedicini, joëlle mélin, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (o-000085/2018 b8-0416/2018) (2018/2790(rsp)).
mrs. konečná and mrs. borzan, would you please put your headphones on? mrs. borzan, do you have your headphones? it seems that there was a small translation problem pointed out by mrs borzan and that would have made mrs konečná react, so, exceptionally, to be sure that there is no ambiguity about your words madam president, please, mrs borzan, speak for 30 seconds on this interpretation problem which you have spotted. you have 30 seconds, ma'am.
i think that this was not addressed to mrs konecná but to mrs meissner, but i think that this is clear, at least, and unambiguous.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, with this oral question on the implementation of the two regulations on medical and in vitro diagnostic devices, we are talking about a potential market of €110 billion. given the seriousness of the subject, namely the health of europeans, both on the preventive and curative side, this financial consideration should not be the main consideration. however, the pip breast prosthesis scandal in france has revealed how fundamental and very serious the role of notified bodies, i.e. those who approve medical devices, is when they are defective. reform was therefore needed; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft regulation on the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. and the fact is, many of them were british. the shortcomings of these bodies are very worrying, both in terms of their number and the quality of the experts who make them up, but also in terms of the length of the approval processes. the health of all europeans is at stake, as medical devices range from sparadrap to extracorporeal circulation, from glasses to hip replacements; as for diagnostic devices, they are fundamental in everyday practice, but also for prevention in the medium and long term. this lag also weighs heavily on many start-ups or large innovative companies, particularly in france where self-control is developing very rapidly. commissioner, you say that everything is coming together, but it is clear that there is a serious delay. this, at least, adds to the climate of mistrust after the many scandals of the past. should we be afraid of a monopoly of a few certification giants? it is urgent, madam president, or else the member states will legitimately take action to protect the health of their citizens, as you will understand.
madam president, this is a very important subject for me and i anticipate that there will be a health scandal over these medical devices. why would you do that? because when we worked on this regulation, we wanted to make a centralised body, like the one that exists in the united states, but the liberals and the conservatives did not want to, saying: we will trust the certification bodies. so i looked at the certification bodies and i pulled out a reference number where there was an extract from a summary report from dg "health and food safety". what does this internal report say? the fact that joint assessments - you know there were 78 certification bodies and now it is thought there will be only 53 - show that there are recurrent and persistent problems with the way notified bodies work and their ability to meet the designation requirements of the directives: lack of independence, impartiality of notified body staff, insufficient evidence of the qualifications of staff and their assignment to specific conformity assessment functions and suboptimal performance of conformity assessments for medical devices. so it is your internal report that shows that the certification bodies are private bodies and from the moment they are private, they are judges and parties, and at the same time they do not have the qualification at the expert level. you said it! so when we're going to have implants -- you know, things that are inside the body -- and if there are no good epidemiologists, if there are no qualified personnel to evaluate clinical trials, to analyze the impact of metals at the level of, say, bone and blood -- what happened with the hip replacements -- then we're going to have health scandals. to give just one example among many: during the pip prosthesis scandal in france, the german tüv went to check them and they did not see that the components of these prostheses were not in conformity. as regards asr hip replacements, they were marketed by johnson & johnson from 2003 to 2010. 93 000 people worldwide, including more than 100 in france, have had these prostheses. it was not the notifying bodies that pointed out the problem: it was only because the united states banned them, then australia, that france also banned them. you can see that we are not up to the challenge. there will be scandals about pacemakers and everything else because our system doesn't work as it is. we were told that we could not have a centralised body, because we had to encourage innovation. but innovation at the expense of patient safety is not acceptable. a centralised body under the aegis of the european commission should therefore be considered, which would analyse more specifically the effectiveness and safety of the devices.
the debate is closed.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by ismail ertug on the establishment of the infrastructure needed for the use of alternative fuels in the european union: the time is now for action (2018/2023 (ini)) (a8-0279/2018).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place at noon today. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by mr joachim schuster entitled 'controlling globalisation: trade aspects' (2018/2005 (ini)) (a8-0319/2018).
the rapporteur. mr president, in accordance with the rules of procedure of the european parliament, i would like my report to be referred back to committee so that interinstitutional negotiations can begin.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, thank you, commissioner, for coming here to discuss a subject which is very close to our hearts. you have spoken of markets, investments, products, competitiveness, etc. these are obviously important topics. i would like to focus my speech on workers and citizens, because a company, an industry, is not just a place where you produce a consumer good, it is much more than that. an industry is also what creates the link, it is what creates wealth, not only for the shareholders, but for a territory, a pool of jobs and it is thanks to this that we have, among other things, nurseries, schools, hospitals, roads, etc. but the day these industries disappear, the whole of society disappears and the bill is presented to society. i'll tell you about two cases: alcoa in spain and vallourec in france. these are two multinational companies that have received tens of billions of euros in subsidies from the public sector to move to areas of the world where there are fewer constraints. the question is what you will do, commissioner, when these products, which will be made elsewhere, are brought back to the european market. what constraints are imposed on these industries? why do i say that? because if the view of the european union - and i know it's not yours, but we have to go further than that - is that multilateralism creates wealth, then we have to ask for whom? multilateralism is above all laissez-faire: fiscal laissez-faire, financial laissez-faire, economic laissez-faire, it is above all the law of price. it's the lowest price that wins the market. we know very well that the lowest price is necessarily the lowest price: the lowest price in social, economic and environmental terms. it's still absurd - to say nothing of anything else - that trump is denouncing this. so he does it in a hateful way, of course, but in reality - and if it were not so serious, we would laugh at it - it is precisely the inventors of ultraliberalism who are now pointing out the flaws in the wto system and rules. we can't keep playing if we don't all have the same rules. when the european commission was about to recognise china as a market economy, we were putting, you were putting industry at risk and everyone said so! four million industrial jobs could be lost in a few months. and yet this was a proposal from the european commission! what were the stakes? what were the political pressures? where's the citizen? where's the worker? so i simply have this message to convey to us collectively, and i know you are sensitive to this: if you want european citizens to get a little closer to the european union, you have to change the rules of the market and the wto. i invite you to bounce back on the proposal of the canadian prime minister, mr trudeau, who says, "shit, let's go ahead, let's put the wto rules back on the table because otherwise it's the law of the strongest", and you know very well that the chinese, with hundreds of billions of dollars in subsidies, are going to kill us all economically; if the slogan is to be cheaper than cheaper, we europeans will never be able to do it. it is our social model, our societal model that is at stake, it is more than competitiveness, innovation or winning markets, it is the european social model, the model of freedom, democracy that is at stake behind these industries. and i'm talking about this because i come from a region that was heavily industrialized and is now heavily deindustrialized. we make the nest of all the populists, we make the nest of all the nationalists, because when a factory disappears, you turn around, there is nothing left, it's the desert. and we europeans have no answer to give. so i would like to see the preservation of jobs and industries as an objective reason for a fair market, because a fair market is only fair if it is social and sustainable, respectful of the planet and the environment.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, just a preliminary remark, i would not like to take up my time. when i go to brussels and stay only six hours, i only get half my allowance. i am the only strasbourg citizen in this parliament. i see that there are very few of my colleagues; the same principle should be applied as in brussels, i.e. if someone stays less than six hours, they only get half of their allowance for the day. so i would like to say i'm sorry, i know i'm off topic, but i would like to see it reciprocated. i will now speak, i will speak on three levels: on the euro area, on the non-euro area and on the new market data. within the euro area, we have to distinguish between the two: we have a single currency and a single market. what is the comparative advantage? we wanted a single market precisely to gain a comparative advantage. the strongest gets stronger and the weakest gets weaker. look at what is happening to a country like mine, france: it has a corporate taxation twice as high as in germany. it cannot devalue, otherwise it is in the eurozone it has to do an internal devaluation. if it devalues internally to regain competitiveness, it risks the fate of spain, which took eight years after its internal devaluation to regain its previous level of growth and gdp. so you see, we are in a game of absolutely impossible reform, which is very serious, within the eurozone. i had proposed an investment agency to promote industry in the south, but the reality is that germany is becoming more and more industrialized or maintaining its industry and all the other countries are reducing their industry. what does this lead to? to the debt and the financial crisis, which is going to be the end of the system, because we are approaching the end of the system, there will be a financial collapse. so, you see, you have to understand this internal mechanism in the institutions of the european union that is leading to this financial collapse, because otherwise you fall into two other logics: transfers from the eurozone budget, but with these transfers, you make assists, or, and this is what you do, you build up debt. that is the first point. the second point is outside the euro area. it is obvious - and we populists were the first to denounce this problem - that reciprocity must be guaranteed. it is not possible for china to impose duties ... (the president withdrew the floor)
i'm the reporter. madam president, commissioner, i think that the text we are about to vote on is a historic text because it is truly a comprehensive draft, containing more than eight legislative proposals, including the proposal for a regulation on the governance of the energy union. it also lays the foundations for compatibility with the paris agreement and, in the light of the latest report of the ipcc (intergovernmental panel on climate change), indicates that a temperature increase of 1.5oc is achievable. this text is also a historic agreement because, for the first time, it mentions a long-term strategy. then we will set the targets for 2030, which will have to be consistent with what we want to achieve in 2050. the governance text says that greenhouse gas emissions will be zero. so that means that all the greenhouse gases that we produce will have to be absorbed in parallel. this is a goal that really needs to be set. we often talk about 2050, but i think that at the level of the european union, with the contribution of the developed countries, it would be good if it were 2040. this therefore requires consistency with the energy efficiency targets of 32.5% and renewable energy targets of 32%. it is true that these objectives are higher than those proposed by the commission and the member states. however, this will not be enough to reach 1.5 degrees celsius because if we follow these targets, we can be beyond 2 degrees celsius. in other words, the review in 2023 will be very important. this is also part of governance, as there are targets for 2022, 2025 and 2027. these steps are therefore essential if we are to be consistent with the paris agreement. it is also an innovative text at the level of governance, since it ensures that there are genuine debates and discussions with the different partners in the states, that it is not always the executive that decides, that the different partners participate and, at the same time, that it is transparent. the commission also needs the civil society of the various member states to ensure that the objectives - since they are european objectives - can be achieved. so i think that both the transparency and the internet platform will allow access to this data. but there's a catch: we need to be even more ambitious. for greenhouse gases, we said 40%, but everyone knows that if we set renewable energy and efficiency as our targets, we have to go up to 45%, and if the target is zero carbon emissions by 2050, we have to go much further. it is even said to be 55% in 2030. similarly, the commission and the states agreed, we included the methane strategy, which was not in the commission's proposals at all. in this sense, it is therefore an innovative text. but i have a question for the commission, since it will have to present scenarios for the long-term strategy on 28 november. i would therefore like to ask mr cañete where the commission stands on this long-term strategy and, above all, i would like to tell him that it must propose 1.5°c scenarios, as the ipcc group is asking for, if we are to be - and my colleague said this earlier - ambitious about the position of the european union vis-à-vis the rest of the world.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, if the fight against climate change is necessary, it is a pity that this noble cause is being misled. in the context of the energy union, the energy transition becomes a pretext for the european commission to take power over energy issues. energy is essential to the functioning of our businesses, to the lives of individuals and to travel, and is by its nature one of the main strategic policies of a state. national sovereignty in this area is, for our political family, non-negotiable. the energy efficiency objectives are in the common interest and are one of the few positive points in the texts discussed today. on the contrary, interconnection objectives should continue to be a matter of free cooperation between states. they will be subject to the wishes of the commission which intends to organize the interdependence of free nations. similarly, binding renewable energy targets are a serious attack on national sovereignty. in the case of france, they do not take into account the high presence of decarbonised nuclear energy in our energy mix. with intermittent energies requiring fossil fuels to compensate for their production variations, we risk the paradox of rising co2 emissions. governance also requires member states to submit national energy and climate plans. it also gives the commission binding powers on the strategic choices of the energy mix. a member state which does not follow the directives of your technocrats should make a public statement and face sanctions. we have said it before in this house and we will say it again: this is not the europe we want. finally, beyond this energy union, it should be noted that the fight against massive pollution due to excessive free trade and the resulting transport is never mentioned. it is true that a voluntarist policy on this matter would call into question your ultra-liberal dogma. but there is a fight ahead against one of the main sources of co2 emissions.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased that the negotiations of this trilogue have been concluded and that a balanced agreement between parliament and the council has been reached. we have agreed on a reasonable and reasoned approach, which reflects our group's vision in the negotiations, namely ambitious but realistic environmental objectives, which are in line with the paris agreement. building an energy europe means encouraging all actors to reduce their energy consumption, but also accompanying them towards a more sustainable consumption. environmental protection and business competitiveness must therefore go hand in hand, and the objectives set out in this text open up opportunities for both private and public actors to devise the solutions of tomorrow. but building the europe of energy also means guaranteeing our independence and enabling us to be competitive in the global arena. i have been advocating for many years the development of protein crops for animal feed on our continent, in order to reduce our dependence on imports of gmos or products from deforestation. i will therefore follow very closely the preparation of the delegated acts, particularly as regards biofuels. these future decisions are of great importance for the future of european agricultural sectors.
madam president, commissioner, a little over 65 years ago the european union created its first institution: the european coal and steel community. the challenges have changed, of course: it is no longer about making peace within the european union but, ultimately, making peace with our future, making peace with the environment and then, of course, building an economy and creating jobs within the european union. the european commission and the member states have not had the courage of our founding fathers to face these challenges, to say the least. the european parliament has shown itself to be more ambitious, but, at 32%, it is still not up to the mark of what we should do or what we can do. but i'm optimistic because i'm realistic. renewable energy is economic and industrial rationality if we can protect our industries, especially from chinese competition. they reflect economic reality first of all, of course. renewable energy has a cost that has been divided by two in ten years for wind, by seven for photovoltaics while the cost of nuclear has been multiplied by three. renewable energy is obviously a matter of social rationality. one million jobs are created every year around the world around renewable energy, that is two to three times more jobs per unit of production than fossil fuels or nuclear energy. renewable energy is also synonymous with rational planning of our territories. how many of our territories today are marked by job losses, economic losses, loss of activity? investing in our territories with the energy transition is the geopolitical rationale, it is the citizen's rationale. finally, we are giving citizens access to renewable energy. but we have to show geopolitical rationality, democratic rationality, because, frankly, depending on water, wind and sea is still more pleasant than depending on putin or the petro-monarchies of the gulf or gabon.
member of the commission. – madam president, in my introductory statement i underlined how important these dossiers are for the clean energy transition in addressing the climate change challenge, considering the important contribution of energy efficiency and renewable energy to the greenhouse gas emission reductions, and how much progress we are making for setting the framework for our ambition until 2030. this will be good for the planet, the economy and consumers. but let me end this debate with a clear message that we are not finished yet. we want to look beyond 2030, following on from the call from this house in the run-up to last year’s cop23. after a similar call from european union leaders this march, the commission is preparing a european union long-term strategy on greenhouse gas emission reduction, which is due to be adopted by the college of commissioners at the end of this month. in our strategy we will factor in the latest findings from science and in particular the intergovernmental panel on climate change’s special report on global warming of 1.5°c. we will look at what should be required to achieve the paris goals and we will explore different pathways as required by article 15 of the governance regulation, including the scenarios to achieve net zero emissions. i signal to you my intention to come to parliament to present this document the day that it is adopted, if so agreed by this house. let me close by thanking you again for our excellent cooperation and for being such a reliable partner in the course of the negotiations of this dossier. i trust that in your vote tomorrow and in the remaining negotiations that lie ahead, you will maintain your ambitious approach and thereby remain such an important player in defining our future energy policy fit for the 21st century and instrumental for achieving our climate commitments under the paris agreement.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i would first like to make up for an omission and sincerely thank the commission, the council and all the co-rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation. thanks to them. i would like to thank in particular claude turmes, who has made a great contribution to this success. this report is a real team effort and i really want to thank all the partners. secondly, with regard to cop24, it would be good to consider a scenario with a 1.5°c reference, as the commission has an important role to play in defending the union's proposals at this conference. finally, ladies and gentlemen, if there is one project in this parliament whose european dimension seems to me to be unquestionable, it is this one. i think that the project we have built together shows the anti-europeans what europe is capable of. this project is forward-looking, it aims to protect the planet and humanity, it proposes energy independence - as my colleague mentioned in his speech on geostrategy - and at the same time it can respond to energy poverty. it is therefore a promising european project that shows what europe is capable of. when i think of the next european elections, i think this is a good example and that if there were many other european projects like this, no one would question the usefulness of europe. yes, we need it.
madam president, the sardine once averaged 15 centimetres in length, but today it is only 11 centimetres in the mediterranean. anchovies are also affected by this alarming phenomenon. worse, these pelagic fish are now dying much younger, so much so that sardines and anchovies older than two years have disappeared. the small size of the fish certainly affects their commercialisation, but it also raises the question of pollution, which has never been so serious, especially in the mediterranean, and which also affects the plankton, the main food of these fish. the management of stocks is of course essential, but it could be done without the european union, since the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean is the competent body at international level. the european union would be more useful if it urgently stopped the discharge of polluting chemicals into the mediterranean rather than making a series of major environmental declarations. talking is good, dealing with the causes is better.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the mediterranean is dying and we are watching it die. not only are the tankers cleaning their tanks, not only is the intensity of traffic leading to polluting collisions like last month's, but it is also being emptied of its wealth by our inability to regulate fishing activity. the report by parliament on the multiannual plan for small pelagic fish in the adriatic does not take account of these issues. the commission's legislative proposal could have been a little more ambitious, but at least it proposed harmonisation with the multiannual plans in europe. the commissioner also stressed that the eu's fisheries policy should be based on the principle of subsidiarity, and that the eu should be able to take full advantage of the opportunities offered by the fisheries sector. we are far from the objectives of the common fisheries policy. would there be a europe split in two, as with the 'sulphur' directive for example? a europe with variable geometry, sometimes in the direction of sustainability, sometimes that of irresponsibility? not only is it not about preserving the mediterranean, but the inequalities created by it are disintegrating the european project. i regret this for mrs tomašić, because i respect her work very much and she has worked very hard , but i urge you to vote tomorrow on amendments 93, 94, 95, 96 and 97 to bring the mediterranean into the era of sustainability.
the rapporteur. madam president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by thanking my colleagues in the committee on development, and in particular the fictitious rapporteurs. the work we have done together has enabled us to obtain a unanimous vote in committee, minus one abstention. i hope that this unity will be seen again tomorrow, because it will give strength to the position of parliament. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but a party to the treaty of rome. the report aims to put education back at the heart of development policies. education is more than education. it is a goal in itself, of course, and has been mentioned many times this evening, because it is a condition for progress in many areas: health, democracy, economic development, gender equality. education, which is essential and demanding, is a complex and long-term policy, but it has been neglected. at global level, as at eu level, aid decreased between 2009 and 2015. it has risen from 11% of total eu aid to 7.5% and globally from 8.3% to 6.2%. this is completely contrary to the stated objectives. of course, efforts have been made since 2016 and they deserve to be commended. but they are not enough to make up for the backlog. they must therefore not only be pursued over time but also be greatly expanded. this requires financial commitments and a target of 15% of our development aid for education by 2030. specific objectives must be included in the next multiannual financial framework. at the same time, the commission must now consider how to achieve development objective 4 and define a strategy to that end. it is to do so in a new communication, which will replace its last text of 2002, updated by a working document in 2010. education must therefore be a priority in development policies. to be effective, we need to set clear priorities. that's what the development committee did. we assume choices are made. we have two priorities. the first is to ensure free, quality basic education for all. i am talking about basic education, which has been severely affected by the reduction in credits. basic and inclusive education corresponds to the twelve-year cycle of primary and secondary education and must be free of charge. so we need to support public education and not private commercial institutions that seek to profit from the education market, as they would from any other market. that's the first priority. secondly, we must increase our support for the least developed countries, not only because they are obviously the ones most in need, but also because it is there that aid is most effective. these two priorities are not the priorities we are pursuing today, so we must correct the course. the union and the member states must devote at least 50% of their aid to basic education by 2030 and at least 40% of their aid, also by 2030, to the least developed countries. so these are clear and specific objectives, assumed priorities. finally, this aid must be more effective, it is not enough to simply put in more money, it is not enough to simply respond to clear priorities, it must be implemented effectively. we need reliable, accurate and independent evaluation tools. member states' assistance must be combined, coordinated with delegations or joint programming. we also want our partners to take ownership of these policies and that is why we have chosen to prioritise budget support. finally, only one third of aid for education comes from multilateral organisations, compared with two thirds for health. the involvement of multilateral organisations, and in particular the global partnership for education, needs to be strengthened. we now have a clear and concise report, setting out policy priorities, the methods to be used and the quantified objectives. i hope that this text will be adopted by the largest majority in parliament tomorrow, so that it can be useful to all those involved in education.
in writing. access to education is a challenge, particularly for countries affected by war or conflict. in sub-saharan africa alone, 87 million primary school-age children and adolescents were out of school in 2014, according to unesco, which recalled in 2016 that "half of out-of-school children and adolescents in countries affected by conflict in 2013 were in sub-saharan africa". the situation is particularly critical in some countries, such as the democratic republic of congo, which is ravaged by latent conflicts. this is first and foremost a humanitarian issue, which is included in the fourth sustainable development goal. it is also a strategic challenge, given africa's tremendous growth potential. the development of primary and secondary education will be decisive in ensuring the maintenance or even the growth of the french language on the continent in the years to come. initiatives such as ifadem (the french-language initiative for distance training of teachers), which is being implemented under the auspices of the international organisation of la francophonie, should therefore be welcomed. it is up to us to make french the first language of africa by 2050.
madam president, just a hundred years ago, on 11 november 1918, the first world war came to an end. it is necessary to commemorate this great victory of france and its allies for which 1.4 million french soldiers gave their lives. a delegation from the enl group commemorated it on the battlefield of verdun where 163,000 frenchmen died blocking the way to the invader. i want to emphatically remind you of my truth about this terrible war, which is not the pseudo-truth peddled by president macron. it was not the nationalism of the french fighters and their allies that caused the war, but the imperialism of the german reich. they are empires that caused the two world wars and nations that defended their freedom and the freedom of the world. the european union, which dreams of becoming a new empire, should not forget this. imperialism is war; nationalism is the driving force behind the right of peoples to self-determination.
i'm the reporter. madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the council, colleagues, remember that two years ago, in this house, after the british people had decided to leave, we swore with our hands on our hearts that we would never again give the destroyers of europe the chance to win. since then, nothing, the immobility, the division of the states, the total lack of solidarity, the broken promises. why, then, should it be surprising that the same causes produce the same effects? the extreme right is at 40% in france, italy - the most federalist of us - has sunk into europhobia and in germany xenophobic nationalists have entered the bundestag. let us face it: the disintegration of the european union is under way. what does the commission propose to us today? a first-class funeral, budget cuts which only dilute european ambition: minus 16% for the cap, minus 10% for cohesion, minus 7% for the social fund, minus 45% for funds for the poorest regions. the commission has submitted to the so-called budgetary rules dictated by governments, at the risk of the future of the union and despite speeches such as that of emmanuel macron in this house or that of angela merkel shortly. it is therefore possible to boast with impunity of europe's achievements in front of the cameras and to go underground to cut off its supplies. is it really so difficult to listen to our fellow citizens? the messages are repeated and clear. the field reports and the eurobarometer surveys converge: the priorities expressed are the fight against poverty and exclusion, employment, social protection and public health, the climate emergency, migration. all these policies have a cost and all these changes have to be accompanied. the energy transition cannot be reduced to taxes on fuels. do you have to be deaf to not hear the citizens' messages? these political priorities must be reflected in the budget. the european budget must be brought out of its systemic undersizing. a comparison sums it up: the us federal budget represents 22% of us wealth, while the eu budget is a paltry 1%. in europe, austerity is everywhere, not just in national budgets, but also in the budget of the european union. today we have the opportunity to write a different story, and that is what we propose in this report. we have consulted all the sectoral committees of this parliament, we have heard from representatives of european civil society and i would like to thank all the teams who have made this possible. this is a first for the multiannual financial framework: we have built a rigorous counter-budget to meet the commission's needs. we demand that the union's pillars of agricultural policy and cohesion be maintained, we strengthen flagship programmes such as erasmus+ and the youth employment initiative, and we guarantee a target of 30% of european spending on the fight against climate change. we create programmes to fight child poverty and to support workers in decarbonisation. in fiscal sincerity, as the true guardian of article 311 of the treaty, we are defending a responsible european budget of 1.3% of the union's wealth and the introduction of new own resources to finance it. ladies and gentlemen, we are the european parliament, we are the democratic institution elected by direct universal suffrage, the legitimate spokesman of our citizens and their territories, we have the duty to give europe the means to act in accordance with their expectations. our hands must not tremble, and for the first time, i will paraphrase president juncker: the financial framework 2021-2027 is the budget of last chance for europe. give us that mandate and let us swear in this house that we will not agree to a budget that would undermine european ambition. let us dare to bounce back, let us be the honour of europe!
the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments to the draft budget. madam president, madam minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague gérard deprez cannot be with us and i am speaking on his behalf. our plenary will decide tomorrow by a vote on the negotiating position proposed to you by your committee on budgets. the interim report we are presenting to you reflects the vision of the next post-2020 multiannual financial framework and its financing by new own resources. this report is the result of more than two years' work, for which the rapporteurs jan olbrycht and isabelle thomas for the mff (multiannual financial framework), gérard deprez and janusz lewandowski for own resources, must be thanked and congratulated. this report presents the long-term budget of the european union and specifies the amounts of appropriations allocated to each heading and programme. it is the culmination of our two previous resolutions, adopted on 14 march and 30 may this year. by its vote, parliament expresses its unity and its will for the forthcoming negotiations with the council and the ministers of the european union. in view of our complete preparation, i would like to deplore the fact that the member states have made no significant progress in finding a common position. i trust the austrian presidency to activate the process and reach an agreement by the end of this year. the overall ceiling for expenditure under the multiannual financial framework is 1.3% of the gross national income of the 27 countries of the european union, and parliament is being reasonable. it intends to take on new priorities: youth, with the tripling of the appropriations allocated to the erasmus programme and the doubling of the appropriations allocated to the youth employment initiative, but also digital research, climate, defence and migration. yes, the aim is to meet these new priorities without cutting funding for the agricultural and cohesion policies. finally, and i welcome this, the interim report calls for the identification of measures that are financed by the states at national level, but which are not really effective in dealing with the challenges of globalisation. so, if it appears that these expenditures would be more efficient if they were placed in the european budget, we can imagine raising the budget of the european union beyond, well beyond, 1.3% of gross national income (gni), without increasing overall public expenditure in europe. in other words, it is a question of beginning to shape the budget of a world power. as regards the european union's own resources, we must admit that the current system is extremely complex, unfair, non-transparent and totally incomprehensible to european citizens. the new system should lead to a substantial reduction in direct contributions from the member states. the aim is to get out of the tyranny of what is commonly called 'just return', which is so contrary to the principle of solidarity and the spirit of the community, as soon as possible. it is clear that the allocation of new resources must in no way imply an increase in the tax burden on european taxpayers. as the united kingdom prepares to leave the european union, let us take advantage of this occasion to dismantle, in the name of fairness, the pattern of rebates, discounts and other benefits granted in negotiations that are as clandestine as they are questionable. ladies and gentlemen, it is time to tax the activities of the digital giants for the profits they make in europe, to tax financial transactions too. in any event, the resources thus collected will be recovered by the member states and made available to the budget of the european union. the tax prerogatives of the states are therefore not affected. the interim report on the post-2020 mff and the new own resources aims at consolidating a europe that speaks to european citizens, a europe that empowers itself to meet their expectations, a europe that prepares for their future and protects them. we still have to reach an agreement with the council.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods. madam president, the committee on transport shares the commissioner's general views on the budget, but i would like to make a few comments and regrets on our specific subject. the connecting europe facility, created by the commission, is an undeniable success that is at the heart of the investment, but also of the single market, as the engine that drives it. it is also at the heart of a number of other problems, including environmental problems. i regret that the appropriations were not sufficient and i also regret that the transfer of 20 billion from the competitiveness funds to central management was not accepted, which would have allowed us to have a better management of our resources without cutting the european budget. everyone agrees - and i think the commission too - that centralised management is better than non-centralised management. finally, we must emphasize the agencies we are defending, because their tasks have increased considerably. however, their resources have increased much less, although they play a central role. we should also stress tourism, which, as in the treaties, deserves to finally have its place and to be accompanied by a separate budget line and not just projects. madam president, we hope that these considerations will be taken into account.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, where is the protective europe? in the unprecedented cuts in cohesion policy funds? in the reduction of the credit allocated to farmers? in the absence of an increase in the european fund for the most deprived, when poverty is exploding all over europe? you have made choices, commissioner, including the one, welcomed by arms dealers and the war-mongers, of increasing the defence budget by a factor of 30. our people want peace. for the environment and climate action, there will be just €2 billion more, whereas much more ambition would have been needed to achieve the paris conference objectives and to really embark on the energy transition. all this is being done in a framework of liberal reforms which will continue to crumble throughout the member states and in an austerity framework which is being maintained. your budget is seven years of misery, seven more years of misery for the peoples of europe.
madam president, commissioner, minister, europe has an appointment with history, europe has an appointment with its history. at a time when other continental states are calling for us to speed up the organisation of living together in the sense of 'making society together', you, mr commissioner, are proposing a budget at a discount. we disagree and you know it. no, it is not acceptable to reduce the cohesion budget at a time when our continent of 500 million europeans must assert itself as the continent of balance in the world. no, it is not acceptable to reduce the budget for the common agricultural policy at a time when our food, biodiversity and human health issues have never been more pressing. yes, we need to address climate challenges, migration challenges, human health challenges, youth unemployment and peacekeeping, as well as energy issues. this mff (multiannual financial framework) shows the limitations of its structure linked to the 1% contribution of the member states and intergovernmental cooperation. we urgently need to provide the european union with its own resources and a real budget, to create without delay a tax on the digital giants and on the multinationals that enrich themselves without relying on our european territories, to accept and accelerate the introduction of a tax on financial transactions, as well as a carbon tax at the borders. our future is at stake and, in the face of the lack of political courage in the member states, the european parliament must speak with one voice, a realistic, united and voluntary voice.
madam president, it is a coincidence that chancellor merkel, the champion of budgetary austerity in europe, will be here today, as we are discussing the multiannual financial framework. in germany, these choices led to popular disapproval and the rise of the far right. tomorrow they will lead to the implosion of the european union. it is therefore urgent that we consider another way, that of genuine european solidarity. the commission is proposing a budget reduction of 5%. the budget provides for a 10% reduction in the cohesion policy, whereas there are 87 million poor people, and a 15% reduction in the common agricultural policy. what about local farming? finally, it has given up any real taxation of gafa and remains timid about new resources. so here are my proposals: to make the forthcoming departure of mrs merkel coincide with the abandonment of the dogma of austerity and to adopt a budget that is in line with social and environmental needs. this is the price to pay for the return of xenophobic and authoritarian fires.
madam president, defining the next multiannual financial framework of the european union is of course voting on a budget, but it is also drawing the contours of a political ambition. but the speeches have been coming in to deplore him: the european union's survival has never been more threatened. the crisis of confidence expressed by our fellow europeans is making us all question ourselves. the ideological conflict which is now affecting our union for the first time since the end of the cold war requires us to support an ambitious project and, therefore, a strengthened budget. i am therefore addressing myself in particular to the representative of the presidency of the council. it is time to get out of the thatcherite posture of the states and to take up the challenges facing europe, our europe, in the right way. we must of course maintain, at least at their present level, the european union's historic policies of solidarity, the common agricultural policy and the cohesion policy. we must devise ambitious policies for our youth, our research, our infrastructure. we need to be at the forefront of the transition to a more economically and ecologically just world with our own resources and our own taxation. in the spirit of the two co-rapporteurs, whom i would like to thank once again for their tenacity, the committee on budgets is putting to the vote a collective and collegial work, the fruit of an agreement between four political groups, it should be stressed.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament. this week is a budget week. we will try to agree on the 2019 budget on friday with your colleagues from the committee on budgets and the council and the council presidency. but even richer and more important is the budget structure for the next decade. i am grateful that there will be a large majority, a very large majority, in the vote tomorrow on the basis of today's statements, for your report and therefore for your positions on all the programmes and on all the clusters and all the headings of the commission's proposal. parliament is thus in a position to enter into negotiations at political level with the council and with the support of the commission. i am grateful that a few members have persisted in staying. i would like to respond to all the comments. but it was on this side of the house that mr obermayr accused me of having made a bold budget proposal. i see you're back. good afternoon, mr. mayor. but otherwise we have only heard criticism from colleagues who are no longer present. what's the matter? we do not want a superstate europe. you can't fund a superstate with 1.3%. for every 100 euros earned by a citizen through manual labour, manual labour and capital investment, he is deducted by taxes, fees and contributions on average 50 euros in europe , which is on average the european state quota. of the 50 euros, one euro has so far been sent to europe. there are 49 in paris, vienna, berlin, rome, the regions, the municipalities, the social security systems. the discourse of the next few weeks will be whether it should be €1.00 or €1.30 or €1.114 the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. if we don't agree on this, the winners will be autocrats in ankara and moscow and other capitalist systems like china. i remind everyone of this. we must agree with the council and in the council with all 27 member states: foreign ministers, finance ministers, heads of government and also national parliaments, which are behind these governments. i therefore make a conscious appeal to all of you: let us enter into the negotiations with the aim of agreement, with a willingness to be flexible and also to be realistic. i cannot imagine that, in all the council meetings i have attended, the starting position of 1.3% will be the outcome. as a starting point, i think your report is very useful, very good. but he won't be the result. we are prepared to make changes as a commission. i'm not saying that my proposal will be the result. to optimize it, to simplify it, to change it, is your right and your duty. we are happy to go along with the council on this path. we are told that the next budgetary framework will be 30% higher in nominal terms than the current budgetary framework, and that is true: it is up to 30% higher in nominal terms. why is this so? if we compare a budgetary framework of 2014 with that of 2021 and onwards, we have seven years of inflation automatically makes 12 to 14% increase in nominal and real terms. if we compare the gross national income of 2014 with that of the next decade, on average, increases of over 2% are added. we have thus achieved a nominal increase of 26% in our budgetary framework alone, without one euro being transferred to us in real terms. the brexit: in some member states, the elimination of rebates, which i think is logical, and new tasks will then lead to a nominal increase of 30%, in real terms very, very marginal. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. but it turns out that defence research and equipment procurement can be done more efficiently by a european team. if it was said here: the money comes from the member states - that is true, 70% comes from the member states; no, it comes from the citizens and taxpayers, because the member state levies it 100% on its citizens. we can show that if we make defence research and defence industry procurement jointly european, it will be cheaper for the taxpayer. the taxpayer saves money. we can get the same equipment in europe through tendering at a lower cost than 27 national silos separated at any one time. researching the same case. we have three objectives: 0.7% for development aid, 2% for those who are nato members, for defence and 3% for research and innovation. so, spending on horizon europe, erasmus+ or joint defence research or horizon europe is all spending, investment, to achieve the 0.7%, the 2% or the 3% target. this is particularly true of the 'neighbourhood and the world' and africa. we must therefore make it clear to the public that investing in a european way does not mean spending more money, but rather investing more efficiently and more cost-effectively. i would like to make one point: those who conduct european defence research are changing the competence structure a little bit, moving competence from paris, vienna, rome, berlin to brussels. so it could be a question of power. but it would be cheaper for the taxpayer to do european research, to do european business in africa and to do european defence investment. this has nothing to do with superstate. one last point. we spend under 7% on administration, 6 to 7%. my request is that if we want good administration in parliament, the council, the commission and the other institutions, we should not cut the grass with the mower on heading 7. we need a qualified, good civil service and we have already achieved a high level of efficiency in our services in all the european institutions. i look forward to the discussions in the coming weeks and i am curious to see how and whether the european council on 14 december will take up the ball of tomorrow's parliament and the commission's proposal of may and june and make this a priority. the european union has not had many opportunities to show that it is capable of acting on the road to the european elections. the damage that can be minimized is brexit. migration is not going to be the big solution. a budgetary framework for the next decade could be a bitter but low-hanging fruit as a demonstration of europe's ability to act, good governance.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the house and the commissioner for their remarks and comments. i would also like to use this opportunity to thank parliament’s negotiating team and all of you for the work put into preparing the interim report. on our side, we will continue our hard work to advance the file as much as possible before the end of the year. as you may know – and this has already been mentioned – president tusk has proposed that leaders have a substantial discussion on the mff at the december european council. to feed into the discussion, the presidency will prepare a substantial progress report on the work carried out since the commission presented its proposal. this shows – i say to mr fernandes, because he addressed his words to me – that the austrian presidency has set, and still sets, a lot of actions. i fully second what you and some others said, namely that we need actions, not proclamations. that’s exactly what we are trying to do and what we will continue doing during the next weeks. we hope that the substantial progress report will constitute useful background for the leaders’ debate in december. we are very well aware of the situation: that it is a crucial moment for the future of the european union and that now is the time to set the course for a prosperous future of the union. however, to realise that, we need all of you to take action. we need the strong political will of all players. i already mentioned at the beginning it will be a difficult discussion, and there will be the need for difficult compromises in the end. we also hope that the progress we made on programmes, but also on the negotiating boxes will serve as a good basis for our romanian colleagues when they take over the file in january. let me conclude by saying that i am convinced that this debate was very valuable. even so, as the commissioner mentioned, it won’t be the solution, but it helped to us to understand one another better. i think we can make a lot more progress by the end of the year.
reporting for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, mrs lulling, has just said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. ladies and gentlemen, allow me to conclude by addressing myself to our institutional partners and above all to the commission. mrs gardiazabal rubial is right, there are parallel worlds. what realism are you talking about, mr oettinger, the council's or real life, people's? how can we talk about christmas gifts and christmas trees, when we are talking about the future of our young people, about living conditions, about research and about suffering too. you therefore acknowledge that you have constructed your budget on the basis of the 1% acceptable to the council, but that is totally contrary - excuse me - to article 311 of the treaty. who's the guardian of the treaty here? finally, stop playing with the famous 1.14%. no, mr oettinger, your proposal, since it includes the development fund, is 1.08%. secondly, madam minister, this house is responsible and fully understands that governments refuse to increase their national contributions. that's good, we don't want that. we do not want to increase national contributions. we want our own resources, not additional taxes for our fellow citizens. moreover, who is constantly extending the powers of the european union? more often the council than the parliament. so, please! and do not hide behind the small finger of unanimity. you also have article 312 (2) in the treaty which allows you to use the bridge clause to move to the logic of the majority and then even to unanimity. that's what compromises are for. finally, i would like to ask both the commission and the minister: do you seriously think that a multiannual financial framework of 1.3% is unreasonable and unattainable? i think that is the minimum acceptable.
the committee on budgets has adopted a number of amendments to the draft budget. mr president, madam minister, mr commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we had an excellent debate this morning, a serious debate, as we are trying to draw up a budget for the european union, covering the years 2021 to 2027. it is a huge challenge. who knows what we'll be dealing with in 2027? several colleagues spoke about the appropriateness of transferring powers to the european union. the real question is whether, today, in the face of the challenges of globalisation, member states, acting alone at national level, still have the power to assume certain prerogatives of sovereignty in the fields of defence, security, digital, migration, climate. in all these areas, is it not time to pool european resources to regain real efficiency, to make the european union a world power and to meet the expectations of our fellow citizens who ask us to prepare their future and protect them? on sunday, november 11th, we celebrated the 100th anniversary of the armistice of 1918, we gathered to remember the 17 million dead, and we emerged from the great war in conditions that prepared us for the second world war. how many tens of millions of victims has this european tragedy claimed? well, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to be worthy of the memory of all those victims, i think the right answer is to build a europe that meets our expectations, a europe that allows us to take back control of our destiny, a europe that serves peace, freedom, prosperity and solidarity. i think our budget, as we are proposing it, is going in that direction. the council has yet to be convinced. we want to move fast, but not at any cost. the first priority is the excellence of this budget.
mr president, madam chancellor, your thirteen years in power in germany have led the european union to its economic, social and cultural disintegration. what history will really remember about your action is your unconscious and unilateral decision to open germany to migrants, a decision that mr juncker slavishly supported. since 2015, the european union has welcomed a total of 4 million young migrants, allegedly in the name of the right to asylum. in the schengen area, where there are no national borders, this wave of migration has spread throughout europe and especially in france. worse, an exodus of tens of millions of so-called "climate refugees" will soon follow! this crazy franco-german obsession with immigration is disastrous for the security of europeans, as in cologne and the bataclan in paris. this hegemony is also reflected in the economy. your obsession with budgetary rigor is reflected in external trade surpluses obtained at the expense of your euro-zone partners, particularly france and italy. it has had a negative effect: increased unemployment and a fall in the purchasing power of european employees and pensioners, including in germany. mrs merkel, after such a balance sheet, how dare you, with emmanuel macron, lecture the patriots of all countries on europeanism and federalism? the europeans don't like your politics. so if you try to be the next president of the european commission, the patriots will block you!
mr president, i pressed the button after my neighbour, mr voigt. would you not rather give the floor to mr voigt?
mr president, i regret this because everything was done to enable my colleague to speak. i'll be very brief. madam chancellor, you spoke of human rights. there are hundreds, if not thousands, of people in your country who are being prosecuted and convicted for crimes of opinion, and i do not necessarily share their convictions. recently, a 90-year-old woman was imprisoned because she did not believe in the dogmas that were imposed after world war ii. this is mrs ursula haverbeck. today, a man with gangrene in both legs is dying in prison. this is the lawyer horst mahler. do you not think, madam chancellor, that these two examples unfortunately refer us back to the darkest hours of your history, to those dictatorships which we are supposed to combat by these excessive condemnations?
mr president, madam chancellor, thank you for being with us. i'm going to talk about the taxation of the digital giants, which you alluded to. i believe that this is a measure of fiscal justice that is much awaited by our citizens who do not understand this feeling of impunity for the most powerful, this feeling of double standards, two measures that feed the resentment that the populists feed on. this is a real power issue for europe. it is about showing our fellow citizens and the rest of the world that europe is not naive and that it knows how to impose its rules. it is a question of demonstrating unity, but germany blocks, hesitates, procrastinates. you yourself, madam chancellor, have told us that you expect an international solution. that means nothing will be done. this is a huge responsibility, because taxing gafa, even if only symbolically, would be one of the measures that would silence critics of a powerless europe. madam chancellor, do you have any other solution to propose?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the union's policy towards its eastern border is schizophrenic and vitiated by double standards. we congratulate georgia because it is pro-european, but we condemn moldova because it is reaching out to moscow. my colleague mamikins' report presents georgia as an economic success thanks to the association agreement, but its poverty rate is estimated to be between three and sixteen times that of moldova, which is described in the report by mr austrevicius as the poorest country in europe. our policy is not to build bridges for continental unity, but to build walls against russia. i am extremely opposed to this policy of drang nach osten (march to the east). it led to war, it will lead to war again. it is contrary to the interests of europe and only benefits powers outside europe who want to cut continental europe of civilization and culture in two.
i would like to make a few comments on this report. firstly, this legislative text is politically very important, as it reflects the common position of the 28 eu member states on arms exports. secondly, it expresses the political will of the european parliament to ensure a better application of the eight criteria which define the right or not to export arms and to ensure also a more transparent application of these criteria, in accordance with the fundamental values of our union. what we want is to retain control of exports so that we can build the europe of defence, commissioner, mr president, by setting up a european defence market which is based on a european supervision mechanism to better monitor exports. finally, the construction of this europe of defence requires us to develop a common strategy, and i am thinking in particular of the embargo we are calling for following the murder of the journalist jamal khashoggi and in the face of the bloody war in yemen. these are our commitments for the europe of defence we want.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, once again, in this draft resolution on arms exports, we propose to strengthen the control of the member states, and in particular the control of the information they disseminate to the union authorities. what right, whether defence or any other, is the union again overstepping its prerogatives? in the final analysis, let us say that some criteria are particularly vague and do not allow for objectivity. i will mention, for example, the preservation of peace, regional stability or the internal situation of the client country. formally, all eu member states have already signed and ratified the un arms trade treaty, which establishes a code of conduct for conventional arms. what do we want to add to the un treaty? i would remind you that the union has no competence in matters relating to the national security of states. this draft resolution does not correspond to the interests of the member states. we shall vote against it again.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, commissioner, we know that cryptocurrencies are bringing about profound transformations in the economy and financial services and that sometimes they excite engineers. the initial token offering offers entrepreneurs new opportunities to raise funds for their projects through crowdfunding. like any technological advance, it requires a framework that accompanies innovation by protecting users against possible deviations. in the committee on economic and monetary affairs we refused to include these virtual currencies in the draft regulation on the provision of european crowdfunding for businesses. it was not his place. however, we believe that the commission must act urgently. as you said, commissioner, some member states are starting to prepare their own legislation. what is the commission doing, when we know that there is an urgent need to protect investors, to impose obligations to inform potential investors about the risks involved and, of course, to put in place effective and unified supervision to combat all sources of fraud that could arise from the development of this sector? early action to remove icos (initial coin offerings) from their legal vacuum will allow europe to participate fully in the development of this market under acceptable conditions, without creating a new source of fraud and misappropriation. then it'll be too late to control the situation. commissioner, i know you have little time left, but you must act. what are you going to do?
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i welcome this debate on virtual currencies and initial token offerings. in recent years, we have seen a significant growth in the use of virtual currencies and initial token offerings around the world, particularly in europe. these financial innovations offer opportunities in view of the speed and multiplicity of uses, but they also entail certain risks, in particular those of money laundering or fraud. the fifth anti-money laundering directive contains several provisions on virtual currencies, but this is not enough and nothing has been thought of for the tokens issued in the initial offers. it is therefore necessary to look at the whole world of crypto-assets, which includes, among others, tokens and virtual currencies. it is crucial that no legal loophole is left and that a framework is developed that can provide better security for investors and control tools in the hands of regulators. while classifying them as a financial instrument may seem an attractive option, all the implications should be considered, in particular the risk of applying rules that are not suited to this nascent sector. the europe that protects has a good opportunity to become a reality with its citizens. it is therefore important that the commission takes this into account and develops a european approach that is both protective and intelligent, while leaving room for innovation.
vice-president of the commission. – madam president, let me first come back to some of the points which have been raised during this debate. for example, mr rosati and some other colleagues were raising the point of cryptocurrencies actually not being currencies. that’s why, from the european commission side, we also change the terminology and we’re no longer talking about cryptocurrencies, we’re talking about cryptoassets. because, indeed, there is only one currency in the euro area and it’s the euro, so the rest is cryptoassets. second, on the need also for international cooperation in this area. cryptoassets and blockchains are a global phenomenon. as regards policy and regulation, to be effective it also needs to be internationally coordinated, so we need to do our homework here at eu level but also need to coordinate this work internationally. at the eu level, as i said, we need to complete our assessment of the applicability and suitability of existing rules and, together with european supervisory authorities, we intend to do so by the end of the year. based on this assessment, then we need to look at what is the best way forward for risks to be confined and monitored, consumers and investors to be protected and innovation to be encouraged. in addressing legal uncertainty and risks for market integrity, investor and consumer protection or security requirements, we should not throw the baby out with the bathwater. the underlying technologies which make cryptoassets work and spread have major potential across sectors. it is a new development, so we need to make an informed decision to find a right balance. so, once again, based on assessment of the applicability and suitability of existing rules and regulations, the commission will consider if measures are required at eu level to seize opportunities and address the risks.
president-in-office of the council. – madam president, thank you for inviting me to this debate on an issue which, i know, has generated some concern. at the outset, let me state very clearly that i am here in my capacity as the presidency and not to defend or comment on national decisions or standpoints. migration is a global phenomenon requiring the engagement of the whole global community to deliver global responses. this debate and your intention to be present with a delegation of members of parliament at the intergovernmental conference in marrakech, where the global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration will be politically endorsed, demonstrate the importance you attach to this initiative. since the first draft of the global compact was put on the table, member states have engaged in extensive discussion on the document in the council, during both the bulgarian and the austrian presidency. member states also actively engaged in a discussion in new york, where six rounds of intergovernmental negotiations were held on this document. of course, the preparation of the global compact had started well before that, with the adoption of the new declaration for refugees and migrants in september 2016. from then on, the eu actively engaged in providing input at the various stages of preparation of the first draft of the compact. let me seize the opportunity to comment on the role of the un high commission on refugees in the process of the debates in the council. representatives of this key partner body were invited to various council meetings to ensure that member states had the most up-to-date and complete information when debating the global compact, the final draft of which was the document put on the table in july. as you are aware, the council does not have a common position on this text, which will be considered and handled by each member state. the political endorsement of the global compact at the intergovernmental conference in marrakech and the subsequent adoption of the document in new york at the un general assembly session in january will not be the final steps in the process. one of the crucial elements of our success in the field of migration is our good cooperation with third countries. i can assure you that the council and the presidency will continue to contribute to that purpose.
member of the commission. – madam president, i welcome this opportunity to join you today to discuss the un global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration, in particular as we approach the final stage of the process – its adoption. in our globalised world, human mobility can only be addressed effectively by the international community as a whole. it is a global phenomenon that requires global solutions, a global response. no country can manage this alone, but together we can set up a humane, dignified and secure mechanism for governing human mobility. this is why the commission strongly supports the global compacts and will be actively engaging in their follow—up. over the past years, the european union has built a comprehensive approach to address migration and forced displacement. our approach has proved to be the right one and delivers results. all this was possible thanks to our common work inside the european union, and to strong cooperation with our partners, in our region and also worldwide. our approach is based on solidarity, shared responsibility, multilateralism and engagement. and this is exactly what the un global compact for migration is about, as the un compact on refugees. the migration compact is the result of two years of intensive consultations and negotiations at the un level, involving governments and other actors. it is the first ever agreement at international level on migration. the commitment to work together to improve cooperation on international migration in order to make it safe, orderly and regular. we all know that the text is not perfect. as you know, ‘perfect’ is the enemy of good! as in any international negotiations, eu member states had to make compromises with states from other regions in the world that have a different perspective on migration. but overall, we have good reasons to be satisfied with the global compact on migration. the final text of the gcm contains many actions that will help us firstly to improve the situation for migrants; secondly, to reduce irregular migration; thirdly, to address the drivers of migration, fight trafficking in human beings and migrant smuggling, and manage borders and facilitate return and readmission. several misconceptions on the compacts have been floating around. i think we need to address them. first, the compact is not legally binding. it will not create any legal obligations for states. it is a menu of policy actions and best practices from which states may draw to implement their national migration policies. more than that, it is fully in line with the principle of national sovereignty and fully respects the sovereign right of states to determine their national migration policies. second, the compact does not encourage migration, nor does it discourage it; what it aims at is that migration takes place in a safe and orderly manner. it contains no language to promote a ‘human right to migrate’, but it stresses the need to protect migrants’ human rights. migration has been part of the human experience throughout history. it is our task to make it work for all. the compact as an international cooperative framework will usefully underpin our existing work with third countries and international organisations such as iom and unhcr. it will also serve as a platform for new partnerships. europe is already at the forefront of migration and has a developed migration policy with high standards for migrants and refugees. the compacts will allow promoting the same standards outside the union borders, thus improving international cooperation on migration in all its aspects. it will help to jointly turn migration from a european and national challenge into a shared one, and into an opportunity for human development, in line with the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. we all supported the un initiative to hold a high-level meeting on migration at the 2016 united nations general assembly (unga). the unanimously adopted new york declaration launched the work on the two global compacts, on refugees and on migration. the eu took an early lead in the discussions on the global migration compact and participated actively in the preparatory work. our delegation in new york has been working closely with our member states in order to ensure that the european union’s priorities were reflected in the final text. we have done so together with the 27 member states that have been actively negotiating and speaking with one voice. this has allowed us to bring forward a global migration compact that largely reflects european objectives and respects our key concerns. we therefore regret the decision by some eu member states not to support the global compact on migration. it is their national decision, which does not affect the position of the commission. the commission will continue our work to improve migration management worldwide. this is what the eu acquis on migration and development leads to. we will notably continue our engagement with the iom, which will lead on the implementation of and follow-up to the compact, which will entail sharing experiences, helping countries to overcome shortcomings and searching for solutions to a global issue. we will also continue to support partnerships at bilateral, regional and global level in the area of migration. with our partners in the world, the migration compact will be an important basis for cooperation along with what has been agreed as the common eu approach to migration. here our common work and your contribution as the european parliament will be essential, dear colleagues.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the global compact for migration is a source of great hope. the un secretary-general entitled his initial report 'making immigration work for all'. this pact, to rally the greatest number - you said it - has been compromised, but for me, it is not the point. in a time of globalisation and increasing interconnectivity, not all human beings are equal in rights and dignity in the face of mobility and migration. this right is open only to a third of the world's population, and if we look closely, the pact is first for the other two thirds, those of the south. let us imagine that each of the objectives of the pact is applied to migrants with european citizenship. there are 60 million of them, almost twice the number of african migrants. so they should be concerned. if this pact is just a governance tool to block immigration from the south, it's a deception. they say detention should remain the exception. the expulsions must be carried out in accordance with international law, without risk to life and without exposure to inhuman treatment, according to specific procedures that respect the law. let's be positive about that. we therefore hope that every state which signs this pact will respect it to the letter so that all migrants, whatever their status, can live in dignity in all territories, with respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. let us look at the reality of the migration figures here and elsewhere, as the first objective of the pact rightly calls for. let the union uphold its principles, you chicken!
mr president, in march 2000 the un was already advocating the entry of 159 million immigrants into europe by 2025. today, the un wants to impose its global compact on migration. although we are told that this text is not binding, it is in fact intended to establish a so-called right to migration. it is presented as a new human right, but it would impose new duties on the signatory countries, and this in the name of a perverse charity which puts others before ourselves. i see in this a heinous moral blackmail which involves blaming the western nations, because it is obviously they who are being targeted and not, for example, the very rich saudi arabia, which does not accept any migrants but to which the un has entrusted its human rights council. donald trump's united states is the first nation to withdraw from this scandalous un pact. many others also refuse: australia, hungary, austria, poland, the czech republic, croatia and now bulgaria. at this rate, there will be hardly anyone in europe who wants to sign this text but macron and merkel. but merkel's days are numbered. it is she who divided europe by her unilateral decision to open the borders. i believe in the collective right of peoples to self-determination and, above all, to remain self-determined. is this not how all the movements for decolonisation were justified in the 1950s, 1960s and 1970s? why should the peoples of europe, who are now being subjected to a new form of colonization, be denied these rights?
mr president, the un global compact for safe, orderly and regular migration is a draft international agreement that must be fought. if it were to simply ask states to respect the human rights of migrants, it could be accepted, but it goes much further. it is a text that gives way to a mad immigrationist. it states in point 10 that migration is an integral part of globalisation and it concludes in point 11 that it must be facilitated. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's migration policy and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's migration policy. i think, on the contrary, that mass migration is a scourge that destabilises the host countries and i commend the courageous states which have decided to reject this disastrous global pact. good for the united states, hungary, austria, the czech republic, croatia, poland and bulgaria!
for the gue/ngl group mr president, this dossier on humanitarian visas is sadly representative of european developments on migration. under pressure from far-right nationalists, european countries are flouting the values of welcome, while our history, especially in the west, is marked by movements of people fleeing poverty, persecution, pogroms and conflict. fifty million europeans migrated between the mid-19th century and the first world war, and this continued until the fall of the berlin wall. what about today? europe hosts 6% of the world's refugees, or one refugee for every 1,000 people. in lebanon, refugees represent more than 25% of the population. and we're the ones who'll take in all the misery of the world? at least 37,000 people identified and probably many more died in the mediterranean. most of them were asylum seekers. these people died because of the lack of regular routes, particularly humanitarian visas. oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. 90% of those granted international protection by states have arrived illegally, with the known risks. the commissioner, relocations are not up to par, and that is not even the subject. some of our rulers will one day have to account for their neglect of the global refugee crisis. i thank mr lópez aguilar for his tenacity. the report does not live up to my expectations. the member states refuse to discuss this on the grounds that such visas already exist at national level. we need european solidarity on this subject, as on others, and we accept the mixing you have invited us to, commissioner.
in writing. if member states have given in to populist rhetoric about refugees and if part of this parliament rejects the inclusion of migrants in our societies, i will advocate a very different vision. they are only seeking protection and a better life in times of war and strife. but to do so, they risk their lives on the road to asylum and across the mediterranean and rely on smugglers who are nothing but human traffickers. they are at risk of exploitation, abuse and abuse. everyone remembers the images of thirsty and hungry children in libya. this is an inhuman and absurd situation, for at this stage there are no provisions in european law to remedy it. that is why i am calling for a european humanitarian visa that would allow migrants to travel safely and would also put an end to the abject trafficking of people by smugglers who profit from the absence of legal channels. calls on all meps to vote on this report, in order to formally call on the commission to legislate on this matter before march 2019.
the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- the report by pilar del castillo vera, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing the european electronic communications code (recast) (com (2016) 0590 c8-0379/2016 2016/0288 (cod)) (a8-0318/2017), and- the report by evžen tošenovský, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a body of european regulators for electronic communications (com (2016) 0591 c8-0382/2016 2016/0286 (cod)) (a8-0305/2017).
the debate is closed. the vote will take place on wednesday 14 november 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for a debate on the report by mr bas eickhout, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down performance standards for co2 emissions from new heavy-duty vehicles (com ((2018) 0284 c8-0197/2018 2018/0143 cod)) (a8-0354/2018).
for the greens/efa group madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are finally getting ready to set co2 emission standards for heavy goods vehicles. this is already a victory, because such standards have not existed until now. we can therefore be proud of this, but it is not enough. we have to go faster, harder. the ipcc (intergovernmental panel on climate change), the group of scientists who regularly warn us about climate change, warned us. we have little time to keep global warming at just 1.5 degrees celsius instead of 2 degrees celsius. why is that so important? because the climate-related risks, at this 1.5°c warming, are certainly much lower than with a 2°c scenario. because it is also heat waves, rainfall, species extinction, agricultural productivity or ocean acidification. what does 1.5°c of warming mean? that means net zero co2 emissions by 2050 globally, well before 2050. did you hear me? long before 2050! this is why we need ambitious short, medium and long-term objectives to chart a trajectory that is reliable, concrete and effective. in this report we have succeeded in raising the reduction target to 20% by 2025 and 35% by 2030, because it is not only technologically possible, but above all desirable. we have also set a minimum, somewhat restrictive, 10% of zero- and low-emission heavy-duty trucks for 2025 and 35% for 2030. here too, it is possible, and the builders can and must do it. you see, colleagues, this is a challenge for the climate, it is a challenge for employment, but it is also innovative for clean vehicles. we can and must also save the workers of the european automobile industry, not by locking them up in an old model, in the old world of fossil fuels, but by looking to the future with hope and with real solutions.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, throughout this mandate we have constantly revised the european regulatory framework for the control and reduction of vehicle emissions. after the revision of pollutant emissions from light vehicles, after the setting up of a committee of inquiry, after the tightening of approval and testing rules, and after the adoption of new co2 emission reduction targets for light vehicles, we will finally regulate, for the first time, co2 emissions from all heavy vehicles. i call on all my colleagues not to reduce the reduction targets of 20% by 2025 and 35% by 2030, which were adopted in the committee. i also call for a massive vote on the binding targets to develop the market for electric trucks and buses. we must also move towards real-world testing to avoid future co2 emissions fraud scandals, as has been the case with pollutant emissions. finally, i want to speak directly to the citizens of europe and tell them that the european union is acting and protecting you to limit the impact of emissions on your daily life. i want to tell them that we in the european parliament are doing our job to respond to the climate emergency and to fight against the scourge of air pollution. but now the member states must also commit themselves to this path, and i regret that they are not here today.
mr president, i did not want to interrupt the formal part-sessions, but i would like to ask you about the way you chaired our proceedings yesterday during the exchange with chancellor merkel. the instructions we have received state: 'please note that the president will allocate the speaking time among members according to the speaking time allocated to the political groups according to their size'. my group has not been a victim of this, but i note that your group, which represents 29% of the members of this house, has been given 35% of the speaking time, that the efdd group, which represents 5.7% of our house, has been given 10% of the speaking time and that the non-attached group, which represents 3.9% of our house, has been given 10% of the speaking time. i think there is a serious imbalance in the distribution of these so-called 'on-demand' interventions. (applause) i would like to thank
mr president, thank you for giving me the floor. i hope my colleagues will listen to me, because this could also concern them one day. i do not know, mr president, about mrs moi. what i can say to you, however, is that it is completely abnormal, absolutely scandalous - and the other day i defended colleagues on the left - that the bureau does not receive the members concerned personally, or indeed the quaestors, when a problem opposes them to the administration of this parliament. this is contrary to all the provisions, including those adopted by this parliament, and more specifically to the code of good administrative behaviour, which provides that before any measure of concern is taken, the person concerned must be heard in writing or orally, if he so wishes. secretary-general klaus welle has regularly, repetitively and scandalously ignored this provision, in defiance of the rights of parliamentarians.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, fearing a defeat in the forthcoming european elections, the europeanist and globalist elites have already found the explanation: the european peoples would be mysteriously deprived of their free will when voting for, quote, 'a great foreign power'. as such, if there is any manipulation of minds that we have just observed, it is through a clip of the french government, paid for by french taxpayers, attacking, as if by chance, the hungarian prime minister and the italian minister of the interior. what do the europeanist experts think about electoral interference? is the commission offended by this? i'm not going to. as such, do you intend to block the accounts and financial flows of the american billionaire george soros, who funds many influential structures within the european union? at least have the courage to name russia in the file! i think the russian president has a good laugh at the paranormal and super-media powers you're giving him. so, i'm going to give you some advice in the same vein. some time ago, in these same places, your inspiration, the inimitable jean-claude juncker, said, and i quote, that he was "discussing with the leaders of other planets". so why not accuse the martians this time of interfering in the next european elections?
mr president, this european union is clearly having problems with democracy and freedom of expression. the eurogagas are so afraid of the meeting with the peoples next may that they are using every means to stigmatize and silence those who disagree with them. in referring to outside interference in the forthcoming european elections, you have the russian government in your crosshairs. these accusations are fantasy, even paranoia, unless they are used to justify tougher sanctions against russia. you are in a bad position to give moral lessons about foreign interference, when we know that ngos funded by foreign public powers, under the guise of defending human rights, actually serve political interests that are contrary to those of nations. you do not mind interference when it is called open society, by george soros, who was promoting the welcome of migrants, and this of course with the blessing of the european commission. you do not mind interference in the forthcoming european elections, when mr macron's government finances and broadcasts, with taxpayer money, a clip to attack european leaders, like mr orbán and mr salvini, who are not at 21% in the polls but are popular with their people, not to mention the interference and manipulation of many media outlets which, loaded with public money, swear by brussels and allow themselves to smear the people of europe by labelling them as xenophobic, racist or populist.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today is a great day for us and for the millions of train users. for the first time, this regulation will finally take users into account. until now, the european union has always dealt with railway undertakings and infrastructure managers. it was quite abnormal that the main stakeholders, the users, were left out. the last report was in 2007, we've been waiting for ten years! ten years later, this injustice can finally be remedied, and this is to be done on the whole of the european rail network. you are talking about derogations, we do not want them, we have already wasted enough time. regional and crossborder lines will also be covered by these new rules, which is excellent news. never forget that 90% of european rail passengers use these regional lines on a daily basis. what are the main commitments of this crucial reform? they're based on four pillars. first, the compensation. if your train is one hour late, you will be refunded 50% of the fare, which is normal. if he is two hours late, which is not acceptable on the european continent, the refund is 100%. that's the norm. secondly, if you miss a connection for any reason, the operators are obliged to re-route you to your next destination. they can't leave you on the edge of the dock. with this single ticket, any operator will be able to meet its obligations without any additional cost. the old west railroad is gone! thirdly, assistance. commissioner, you are talking about an attempt. it's not. with this dossier we must ensure that the 80 million disabled people and people with reduced mobility are taken care of in all the major railway stations in europe, but also in the smaller ones, with three hours' notice. mobility for all will be the reality of tomorrow. we can't leave people with reduced mobility on the side of the road. finally, the fourth area is sustainable mobility. from 2024, each train will have to provide eight bicycle seats. it is a big step towards smoother and more respectful mobility and is an essential measure to deliver on our cop commitments. it should be noted that rail is the most heavily subsidised mode of transport in europe. it is still a little abnormal that this service is perceived less well by users than other modes of transport, in particular the airplane. finally, this dossier will enable rail users to benefit from a better quality of service than in air transport. and for the first time, europe is looking after rail users. i therefore ask the european commission and the council to make it clear that they will not back down in the forthcoming negotiations. you talk about companies, we've talked about them a lot and we've protected them a lot for the last ten years. now, i would like to see the passengers in particular. this is a highly political issue, and all the more important in the run-up to the european elections. the millions of train users will be particularly vigilant.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i have only one figure to give you: a european who gets up in the morning to go to work has nine chances out of ten of taking his car or a bus and only one chance out of ten of taking the train. so you can see that we are living in the age of the car, an age that is unbreathable, that is against the paris agreement and that is putting the family budget at risk. today we have the opportunity to make the train more enjoyable by equipping all trains, from regional trains to high-speed trains, with a minimum of eight bicycle spaces. ensuring assistance for people with reduced mobility in every station, because our priority is to ensure that everyone has access to mobility; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on transport and tourism. the current version of the text provides for a refund of 50% of the ticket after a delay of one hour, 75% after a delay of one and a half hours and a full refund after two hours. you see, ladies and gentlemen, that there are only advantages to taking the train, which is more attractive for our health, for our climate, for the wallets of european citizens and, i would add, for european jobs, because we are making our own train in europe and its industrial jobs must be preserved on our territory.
mr president, the provisions of the report, particularly those increasing compensation for delay, will undoubtedly be a step forward for travellers. but when i hear the greens make the reservation of bicycle spaces on trains a non-negotiable point, i still wonder about the sense of priorities and about respect for subsidiarity. safety, punctuality, cleanliness, decent prices are all aspects that require effort. the european union, by imposing its economic dogmas, is encouraging a disengagement of the indispensable public power. it is no coincidence that japan and switzerland have high rates of punctuality and satisfaction, while in britain, for example, 60% of the population wants the sector to be renationalised. there is almost no insecurity or uncivility, no looting or theft of train tracks in these countries, as is the case in france, nor is there any controversy, as in germany, as to whether wagons should be reserved for women only to guarantee their safety. the network and infrastructure maintenance are very rigorous. the recent series of failures which have seriously disrupted french traffic are, on the contrary, symptomatic of a declining level of demand. it is no wonder that france, renowned for its excellent railways, has risen from second to seventh place in europe in the boston consulting group's ranking. passenger rights will be better respected when it is understood that the performance of the rail system is essentially determined by the level of public spending that is willing to be allowed.
mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today an important report and concrete measures which will have a direct impact on the daily lives of millions of europeans who use the train on a daily basis. what we are proposing is to pay passengers better when trains arrive late, to provide them with all the traffic information in real time, to guarantee better services and to improve the rights of people with reduced mobility. i deeply regret that in the committee some members have managed to manipulate the vote to pass amendments which re-introduce provisions allowing railway operators to be exempt from any obligation to reimburse in the event of delay. i call on all members to vote against these amendments tomorrow and not to give in to the lobbies of the companies who would like members to look down on passenger rights. we were elected to defend our citizens and the public interest. it would therefore be a disastrous political message to vote for amendments which defend the economic interests of the major railway groups against the rights of millions of users and against the very opinion of the court of justice of the european union on compensation obligations.
madam president, 173 countries have banned persistent organic pollutants. yet we cannot pretend that there are no problems with fertility or puberty, that 80 per cent of insects and a third of birds have not disappeared, and that pollinators are not in danger of dying off. glyphosate, chlordecone, neonicotinoids, sodium metham, there are countless health scandals. but what is the european commission doing to protect the health of europe's 500 million citizens? today, nearly one third of chemicals on the eu market since 2010 are potentially hazardous to human health, in breach of the european reach regulation. what is the reality? the reality is that neither the member states nor the european commission are applying article 191 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which provides that the union's policy on the environment shall aim at a high level of protection and be based on the precautionary principle. the reality is that most member states are blatantly violating these precautionary principles and that the european commission, by letting it go, by letting it go, is itself guilty of failing to assist citizens in danger. we must not play with the health of 500 million european citizens, it is our full and complete responsibility to take very concrete action.
madam president, i welcome the revision of this regulation on persistent organic pollutants (pops). indeed, many associations, including wecf (women engage for a common future) and fne (france nature environnement), have documented the presence of toxic substances, including flame retardants, which are pops, in children's toys, kitchen utensils or hair accessories. why would you do that? because they're recycled plastics. i support my colleague, mr andrieu, and find it scandalous that the european commission has granted derogations to allow the recycling of plastics containing these substances. studies on carpets have shown the presence of pops in carpets from the seven main manufacturers, whether phthalates, brominated flame retardants, etc. these substances must be banned upstream. no derogations should be granted. i agree with mrs girling that these derogations should be abolished, because the important thing in the run-up to the european elections is to show that europe is protecting the health of consumers. at the moment we are not ambitious enough.
madam president, commissioner, one of the most serious ecological and health crises in the european union is affecting the outermost regions of guadeloupe and martinique, which have been exposed, as you know, for decades to a very toxic persistent organic pollutant: chlordecone. these islands are now ravaged by the persistence of this pollutant. one scientist said that we are in a situation almost post-chernobyl: the land and the soil are polluted for the next seven centuries and the people are sick. france has not fulfilled its duty to inform the public of the risks to the populations, who are now left to their own devices. may this regulation oblige france to meet its obligations! the west indians, you see, madam commissioner, expect a great deal from europe, and i am counting on you, madam commissioner, to act in this direction.
on behalf of the alde group. madam president, the european union is proud of its charter of fundamental values and it is as such that we fight against disinformation, protect whistleblowers and respect the principles of the rule of law. every community, when it mobilizes the money of its members, must be vigilant about the sincerity of the accounts and statistical information. mutual trust is built on a requirement of truth and reliability. andreas georgiou, director general of elstat (the greek authority for macroeconomic, budgetary and financial statistics) has been prosecuted since 2011 for having complied with the standards set by the european union in this area. while two decisions of the greek supreme court ruled against him, in september this year a third procedure was launched against him at the initiative of the public prosecutor's office. i see that the old team, the one that made up the public accounts, is not being prosecuted. the focus of the prosecution, however, is andreas georgiou. i appeal to the council, madam minister, and to the commission, madam commissioner, not to be suspected of being complicit in a characterised judicial harassment which undermines the indispensable trust within the economic and monetary union. put an end to this scandalous human, political and european situation. if guy béart sang "he told the truth, he will be executed", that is not our vision, that is not our policy, that is not our demand. it's a matter of trust. in conclusion, i would like to say to our greek colleagues that it is essential to put an end to this scandalous situation. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by mr glinne) (rule 162 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer is "blue cardboard". dear marias, do not misunderstand me, we are all one and the same, in the diversity of the countries we represent, of the political formations that are ours. we are guarantors of a moral pact based on trust. mr georgiou has been granted two non-places by the supreme court. so why the relentlessness of the prosecutor general's office, which is launching a third case against mr georgiou? i would very much like you, as the greek elected representative, to put pressure on the greek public and the greek authorities to put an end to this situation. we will build europe on the principle of trust and not on the make-up of public accounts.
mr president, today we are dealing with a matter of credibility, because the credibility of the council, the commission and our parliament is at stake. we cannot affirm principles and values here and then not defend them when others sit on them. in this case, it is a matter of credibility, because it is a judicial ordeal with three consequences. we are very committed to the independence of the judiciary, and we are equally committed to the independence of the statistical authorities. it is therefore a triple consequence for mr georgiou, but also in a certain way for all the civil servants who have done their job, who has been accused for several years, even though he has done his job in accordance with european procedures. for the analysis of the facts which enable these statistical authorities to produce independent figures on which public policies are based and for the construction of common rules which require trust between partners, it is important that our parliament, accompanied of course by the council, put an end to this legal sham which, in fact, poses a problem for the defence of independent institutions, which are useful for policy-makers, for the future of economic and monetary union and, of course, for the person of mr georgiou, who is exiled from his country because of this case.
mr president, we are discussing the independence of the statistical authorities here and i note that both the council and the commission have welcomed the quality of statistics, particularly in greece. i would of course ask the commission to verify that this is the case in each of the member states of the european union, because we know how important the independence of the statistical authority is for the credibility of the policies that are being pursued. similarly, the independence of the statisticians themselves must be preserved. what are we talking about here? because, as everyone knows, the real reason behind this debate is the desire to question what is happening in greece with mr andreas georgiou. is the greek statistical office (elstat) considered to be not functioning properly? obviously, i do not think that is the case. does the greek government then have a right to intervene in a judicial matter? i would be surprised if this house would go in that direction, since it seems to me that it is so committed both to the independence of the statistical offices and to justice. i note that last june president tsipras himself said that he recognised the quality of the statistical data provided by mr giorgio and that he was prepared to go to the court to testify in his favour if necessary. moreover, if some in this house feel that the procedure under way in greece is flawed, then we must not go to a debate which is being politicized here, but to the european court of human rights.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the us denunciation of the euro-missile treaty shows the flagrant failure of the european union's foreign policy, the jewel of the lisbon treaty. in this treaty, the european union has indeed, one might say, fallen asleep in the face of nato's policy by making itself constitutionally dependent on decisions taken by others. today we complain about american unilateralism. yet for more than a decade, the european union has pursued a policy of escalating tensions with russia, orchestrated by the united states. by hosting the missile shield, that is, in reality, missile launch sites. the border countries have upset the military balance of the continent. by plunging europe into its old rancor, russian-polish animosity, war in ukraine on the frontiers of culture and civilization, we have, with the full support of the foreign service, deliberately sabotaged any policy of détente. but détente was the necessary condition for the treaty to be signed by reagan and gorbachev in 1987. we have sown a wind of new tensions, and i fear that we are reaping the risks of war again.
mr president, madam minister, welcome back to the eighties! the days of dial telephones, radio tapes, answering machines and the minitel are here again. with donald trump's announcement that he wants to end the agreement between washington and moscow on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, we are going back thirty years. it's a serious act. i would like to recall the importance of the inf treaty (intermediate-range nuclear forces) - as has been said - particularly for the security of our fellow citizens, but also for the strategic stability of the european continent. if such a withdrawal takes place, it will upset the fragile balance created by the cold war and have catastrophic consequences for the preservation of world peace. mr. president, madam secretary, we are swimming in the middle of a bad soap opera, in the middle of dallas. it is time for europe to regain its role as a balancing act in the concert of nations and to save the planet from this mistake. hence my simple question: what concrete action does the union intend to take to preserve the dialogue between the united states and russia and to avoid the dismantling of this treaty?
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, beyond the fine words and wishes, i shall go to the heart of the problem for europe. french companies, not least those particularly invested in the promising iranian market, have recently had to abandon their investments in that country. this is the case for the car manufacturers psa and renault, but also for total, which has been present in iran since 1954. french and european companies are in fact paying for the passivity, if not the complicity, of the brussels leaders with the oukases of successive us administrations. in the 1990s, no one in europeanist circles was alarmed by the scope of the amato-kennedy act, which the united states is now reactivating against the european union after its unilateral decision to withdraw from the geneva agreement on the iranian nuclear programme. unfortunately, we are seeing the result today. we're so willing to give up everything to washington, we end up bending over backwards to these legal technicalities. so, a firmer stance on trade negotiations, an end to any alignment on washington's exclusive interests like the exit of this stupid policy of confrontation with russia could send... (the president withdrew the floor)
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, madam commissioner, helping so-called 'rural' families by rehabilitating local care centres or setting up early childhood centres, recognising the work of those you call 'carers', avoiding discrimination in employment where a mother or father has chosen to serve his family are good proposals. but as so often happens, your good intentions are overshadowed by the europeanist ideology, and you entrust this task to the european commission, through the solidarity funds which are not its own. you ask the member states to allocate european funds better, but you simply forget that this is one of the sovereignties you have taken away from the member states, since it is a power that has been given to the regions. finally, you state the real objective of the report, which is not the well-being of families, but the 370 billion euros that would be lost in a year for the european union and large companies when women choose to serve their families rather than work. you admit that a mother should return to work as soon as possible after her maternity leave. and to facilitate that return, you ask men to take responsibility. the motivation of this type of text demonstrates once again the ambitions that you have. i therefore reiterate that family policy is and must remain the prerogative of sovereign states. the european union should not invade the privacy of families.
member of the commission. – mr president, lyme disease, or borreliosis, is a real health concern for european citizens, who are increasingly exposed to ticks and the associated risks of lyme disease. in fact, lyme disease is the most prevalent tick-transmitted infection in europe. recent studies estimate that the incidence of lyme disease at 22 cases per 100 000 persons per year, with a steadily increasing occurrence in several member states. in the absence of a consistent surveillance system in the past, it remains difficult to accurately assess the overall trend of lyme disease. it is, however, clear that the northward spread of ticks and adaptation of altitude are associated with climate change and land-use change. currently, there is no vaccine against lyme disease so the recommendation is to take general prevention methods, such as tick awareness, appropriate clothing in tick-infested areas and the removal of attached ticks. these are particularly important for citizens living in areas where lyme disease is endemic and high-risk groups, such as agricultural and forestry workers. let me now address each of the questions you raised. question one: the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) and member state experts worked on a proposal to include lyme disease on the eu list of notifiable diseases. however, the diagnosis of lyme disease is challenging, as the symptoms are varied and often non—specific. in addition, different diagnostic criteria and tests are used in different countries. thus, the disease may go undetected, with the subsequent risk of developing serious chronic manifestations. neuroborreliosis is the most serious complication of the borrelia bacterial infection, seen in about 10% of patients with lyme disease. the definition of neuroborreliosis is more standardised than other lyme disease manifestations, with the possibility to confirm cases based on a common eu case definition. this is why, based on a scientific assessment, it was therefore decided to include lyme neuroborreliosis in the list of eu notifiable diseases under the decision on serious cross—border threats to health. the commission remains fully committed to tackle the disease, working with member states to strengthen prevention, surveillance and control of lyme disease. as a key element, the decision on serious cross—border threats to health, which i have just mentioned, provides for epidemiological surveillance of communicable diseases through the use of comparable and compatible data. question two: with the recent inclusion of lyme neuroborreliosis in the list of eu notifiable diseases, all eu and eea member states are required to report such cases using the standard eu case definition. the epidemiological information on neuroborreliosis will be collected by the european centre for disease prevention and control, starting in 2019 for cases diagnosed in 2018. in time, this will allow a better evaluation of the disease prevalence and trend of lyme disease in europe. cooperation on surveillance, prevention and control between member states is ongoing, coordinated by the centre. question three: the centre is actively contributing to enhance awareness about lyme disease among professionals and the general population. several publications and tools are available, including information about the disease and the vector infographics disease fact-sheets for professionals and health practitioners and a communication toolkit on tick-borne diseases and preventive measures against tick bites. to strengthen preparedness and exchange of best practices, the commission organised a workshop on the challenges of managing outbreaks of vector-borne diseases in september 2017. the centre has also conducted community preparedness case studies, including on lyme disease, focusing on synergies on community and hospitals. question four: as regards diagnostic practices, reporting of lyme neuroborreliosis cases from 2018 onwards will be done according to a common case definition and diagnostic criteria. this will help to allow for a more accurate picture of the prevalence of lyme disease in the eu. in addition, the european centre for disease prevention and control has conducted a systematic literature review on the diagnostic accuracy of serological tests for lyme disease. it will start collecting data on the laboratory methods to evaluate the diagnosis for lyme neuroborreliosis in 2019. question five: as you know, the commission is not in a position to harmonise treatment practices as this falls within the competence of the member states. this being said, the commission is committed to help develop new and better diagnostics for lyme disease. this effort has seen significant financial support in recent years. question six: let me highlight that there is indeed currently very significant funding behind efforts to improve the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of lyme disease in the eu. the commission has recently supported research on improved diagnostics that will permit early and accurate diagnosis of lyme disease through the provision of eur 7.8 million. it is also worth noting that, in 2016, the european investment bank granted eur 25 million for the development of a lyme vaccine. additionally, the commission has provided eur 3 million to fund the development of an anti-tick vaccine aiming to protect against all tick-borne diseases in europe. the remaining two years of horizon 2020, and in particular its forthcoming calls for research and innovation project proposals, will offer further opportunities to support research on lyme disease. we now need to implement a robust lyme disease surveillance to have a clearer picture on the disease burden and trends across the eu. we will further focus on awareness raising, improving community preparedness and prevention and supporting research efforts to develop new diagnostic methods and vaccines. i hope, and indeed trust, you share the intention to drive matters forward, to strengthen prevention and reduce the prevalence and the suffering associated with lyme disease.
for the greens/efa group mr president, thank you for the answers you have given us at commission level. i welcome this resolution which finally takes account of the suffering of these patients. we talked about "therapeutic wandering". i do not know if you are aware of this, but as my colleague frédérique ries has pointed out, this disease is often very poorly understood, because it is chronic and is not covered at all in the programmes and training of doctors. there's a kind of denial surrounding this disease that doesn't fit the codes. this explains why, for example, patients in france go to germany. as you suggest, better harmonization is therefore necessary, because effective diagnostic tools are essential. just because the tests are negative does not mean that the disease is not present. similarly, working groups should be set up, as you have proposed, to exchange good practice on both diagnosis, screening and treatment. some countries refuse to treat patients with a high dose of antibiotics. and then there is the training of doctors, who often lack knowledge of environmental health issues. finally, research should be expanded, funding increased and recognition of the disease as an occupational disease improved. the stakes are therefore high. but europe can add value to the picture, to better understand this disease and, of course, to better treat it.
on behalf of the efdd group. mr president, commissioner, the reliability of serological tests and non-conventional treatments for lyme disease is a matter of concern and should, in my view, have been addressed in this oral question. i also note the absence of references to the phenomenon of medical errance in which some patients find themselves, as well as to the cross-border movements of patients seeking treatment for this disease. we could also have asked whether the commission was going to encourage awareness campaigns on the risks of lyme disease following tick bites, and in particular the fact that the infection manifests itself with a lag in time and presents a wide variety of symptoms. finally, why not ask the commission to account for the scientific findings following the investment of millions in research into the disease and the development of a vaccine? it is the elected representatives' job to know where the public money goes.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the explosion in lyme disease cases shows a two-fold fracture. first, let us look at the territorial and social divide, since the most widespread zoonosis in europe affects mainly the inhabitants of rural areas, which is probably why the public authorities are not interested and why it is difficult to recognise this disease as an occupational disease. in my region of france, for example, many very young men who work in the apple orchards suffer from this tragic disease. some cases are really very difficult and worsen to the point of dementia. it really hurts a lot. the gap then separates man and nature, since the hunt for predators, which is essential to the ecosystem, will be followed by the proliferation of certain parasites. a recent study showed the role of the fox, sometimes considered a pest, in the eradication of ticks. however, at a time when between 650 000 and 850 000 europeans are affected by this disease every year, the true course of the fight inflicted on so many patients faced with the inadequacies of modern medicine cannot be tolerated. beyond a vast common effort at european level, these patients deserve our attention and above all our respect.
mr president, commissioner, they are smaller than the head of a pin, but they do a lot of damage. ticks are the number one vector of animal diseases in the world, second only to mosquitoes for human diseases. this is a real public health issue. as we have already said, more and more people are suffering from this disease because, unfortunately, it is largely underdiagnosed and sometimes asymptomatic. there is no consensus on its diagnosis or treatment. this lack of recognition has had a lasting impact on patients with this disease, who find themselves in a situation of diagnostic and therapeutic confusion. they must be considered first, because, in addition to the simple flu symptoms that may develop in the early stages of the disease, a borrelia bacterial infection can, if not treated properly, become chronic and disabling. it is therefore a pathology to be taken seriously. i have heard your proposals, commissioner. there is an urgent need to step up research efforts and a vaccine must be developed as soon as possible. but prevention is also essential. we need to improve information for citizens on how to protect themselves against tick bites and on the need to be screened after a tick bite. with lyme disease present throughout europe, we are facing a real cross-border challenge which requires coordinated european action.
mr president, commissioner, i think we can be satisfied with the work that has been done to achieve this resolution on lyme disease, which, as you know, was eagerly awaited by many of the associations of sufferers. every year, nearly one million europeans are affected by this disease, the diagnosis of which is still uncertain for many and the medical treatment is unsatisfactory. we know that the proliferation of ticks and the increase in bites are directly responsible for the scale of this disease. once confined to forests and mountains, ticks now proliferate even in peri-urban areas and threaten much larger population centers. this is why action at our level is urgent, because this rural disease has long suffered from inaction, lack of resources and lack of interest from the public authorities. i am therefore pleased that today we are collectively responding to the challenge of fighting this disease. moreover, i hear the voice of patients and families who will see in our approach the hope of finally being heard and properly cared for by the medical world. that is why we must support this resolution.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the european communist regimes collapsed in 1989, two years before the ussr itself disappeared. nevertheless, there are still some communist regimes in the world, such as vietnam, which is a dinosaur. the vietnamese constitution proclaims, i quote, that 'the communist party, the vanguard of the working class, is the force which rules the state and society'. the national assembly and the judiciary are therefore under his control. vietnam has been seeking to integrate into the international community for the past 20 years, joining asean in 1995, apec in 1998, the wto in 2007 and signing a partnership agreement with the european union in 2012. nevertheless, vietnam remains a dictatorship which imprisons its political opponents, such as mr dinh luong, who was sentenced to 20 years in prison on 16 august. the french prime minister has just praised president ho chi minh, the founder of this communist dictatorship, in exchange for the signing of trade contracts. the european union could have saved europe's honour, but it will not, because it is about to sign a free trade agreement with vietnam. the european consumers will soon be able to buy the products made by vietnamese political prisoners at low prices.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the conflict arising in the east china sea must lead our states to act with the utmost caution. we are caught between the united states, which is blowing on the coals, the states in the region, which are rearming themselves, and china, which is investing massively in its navy. the situation is becoming extremely critical and we are facing the risk of major conflict. i have always fought communism and i have no sympathy for the hanoi regime. i find the persecution of vietnamese catholics particularly intolerable. it is not grandiloquent proclamations but discreet and resolute diplomatic action by our states that can stop them. but in asia, we still negotiate with respect for the national sovereignty of the parties. it would be enough to reject the trade agreement, a product of your ideology and which also puts our economies at the mercy of a country without rules, to obtain concessions and greater democracy. then why don't you go in that direction? so once again, act with caution and firmness!
for the gue/ngl group mr president, we are going to send a message of warning to bangladesh on the eve of the december elections. the psychics are in the red. violence, arrests, arbitrary detentions and extrajudicial executions are on the increase. the war on terror and the war on drugs have a good back. photographer shahidul alam, blogger limon fakir or, worse, shahzahan bachchu, who was murdered last june, are unfortunately just a few examples. the social situation is not much better. after the rana plaza horror, little has changed despite the commitments. the textile workers remain among the lowest paid in the world, the safety conditions remain catastrophic and a new drama is possible at any time. fast fashion continues to be the law and european multinationals are still the main beneficiaries. in short, i join our voice to those who are calling on the bangladeshis not to implement the agreement on the rohingya. that would be sending them to their deaths, so it's not possible.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, imagine that i am speaking to you without interpretation. you wouldn't understand a word i'm saying. imagine you were on trial in a foreign country and you knew nothing about the rules because no one explained them to you. imagine that you were summoned to a court with your child, confident or confident that you had the right, and you left without him. imagine that you had to pay child support for your child, whom you had not been allowed to see for years. imagine that after all these years of being away from you, your child no longer speaks your language, does not know your culture, and worse, does not even know who you are as his parent. you know what? well, that is the situation facing thousands of parents in the face of the jugendamt, david against goliath, so to speak. no, this resolution is not a text against germany. this text is an appeal to the law. if the jugendamt really wants to defend the best interests of the child, as it claims, it must let the child enjoy the full benefits of his mother and father. it is the very basis of its balance and its emancipation. it is this multi-cultural richness that will make him a strong, open and loving adult, because that is what love is all about. how can you be so stubborn as to prevent a parent from telling their child that they love them, that they miss them, that they want to hold them in their arms. how did you do that? this resolution, i dare say, is a call for love, which some people may not like, because i hear too often that politics should not be based on affection - and perhaps that explains why the world situation is so chaotic. so, colleagues, i ask you to open your hearts and let these children feel the love of both their parents. love, more love, always more love. europe cannot stand by and we cannot be spectators to this. we must act and we can do so on the basis of mrs merkel's statements, which were made yesterday at the latest. let us be more united, madam chancellor. so allow for family harmony for the sole benefit of the child. that's all that matters.
mr president, i do not wish to interrupt you at all, but i did not know when you would have finished talking about the arrest of our colleague, mr lamberts. i am glad to hear the second part of your answer, namely that you would start by investigating the facts. i listened to what mr lamberts said and i am a supporter of freedom of expression, but i understood that it was a private demonstration organised by people who are hostile to immigration policy. as for me, i can say that if, for example, in france, i had the fantasy of coming to speak at a demonstration organized by people who are in favour of the migration invasion, i very much doubt that they would give me the floor. but i say that if there is to be a speech in favour of our colleague, as mr lamberts mentioned, i am sure that reciprocity will prevail and that at all the authorized demonstrations, contradictory points of view will be heard.
on behalf of the enf group. mr prime minister, your country joined the european community in 1973, at the same time as the united kingdom. like the british, the danes were able to assert their uniqueness from the start. your country has negotiated a number of opt-outs, i.e. exceptions to european law. when other leaders handed over their countries to the european commission, your predecessors were able to preserve whole sections of your sovereignty, that is to say, your freedom in accordance with your interests. so you have not joined the area of freedom, security and justice, the flattering and pompous name of the european asylum system. you have also not joined, and you are the only member state to do so, the csdp, the common security and defence policy. you also got an opt-out option in the negotiations on the maastricht treaty, which transformed the european community into the european union. you have therefore not joined the economic and monetary union and you still use the danish krone and not the euro. close to sweden, culturally but also and above all geographically, you have not made the same mistakes as your neighbour in terms of migration policy. by connecting you to sweden, the bridge built between copenhagen and malmö has no doubt helped to distance you from your neighbour, at least from its alleged model of integration of immigrant communities. malmö, the molenbeek of scandinavia, where almost half the population is of immigrant origin; malmö, where crime has exploded, from petty crime to big banditry; malmö, which regularly suffers riots like the one that happened in france in 2005. your government has taken drastic measures to prevent such a disintegration of danish society. you yourself have denounced the emergence of areas of lawlessness and, i quote, 'muslim parallel societies'. in september you again called for the reinforcement of external borders, whereas you have already re-established effective control of internal borders. in october, your minister for immigration and integration announced that denmark would not accept any more refugees until further notice. however, after this flattering portrait, let me tell you that there is still something rotten in the kingdom of denmark. i am not, of course, inclined to offend your country, which i have just praised so highly. but by this phrase from shakespeare, which has become proverbial in the language of molière, i would like to point to a form of schizophrenia. despite all these measures which in many respects place you almost to the right of viktor orbán, you still belong to the liberal federalist group of mr verhofstadt and you praise mrs merkel and mr macron endlessly. mr macron is an ultra-liberal and, at the same time, to use his favorite phrase, a tax fraudster. yes, he is burdening the french with new taxes, even though france is already one of the most taxed or overtaxed countries in europe. it is the same mr macron who spends billions on a migration policy which is diametrically opposed to yours. while your country is not a member of the csdp, you surprisingly supported the macron idea of a european army. would you be prepared, mr prime minister, to place danish soldiers under the direct command of mr juncker or his successor? i personally do not want french soldiers to shed their blood on the orders of unelected bureaucrats without legitimacy in the european commission. finally, just yesterday in the danish parliament you said that denmark would benefit from the un global compact on migration. yet this pact is immigrationist, it is rejected by the united states, australia, israel, austria, hungary, poland, bulgaria, switzerland, croatia and probably many others. today, the future of europe, the subject of our debate, is at stake in budapest, rome and warsaw. the tandem between mr macron and mrs merkel, representing federalism and immigration, is already a thing of the past.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, while parliament is debating the environment, air pollution and cars, a new citizens' movement has been born in france: the yellow vests, supported by 80% of the french. some of our fellow countrymen, overwhelmed by taxes, will soon be unable to drive to work because of the high cost of fuel. at the same time, the united nations is warning of the growing gap between the action of states and the commitments of cop21. but it is globalisation that has fostered pollution, through the mass importation of products designed on the other side of the world. so what are we waiting for to punish not the citizens, but the real polluters? shipping using very poor quality fuel with emissions of sulphur oxide, nitrogen oxide and fine particulate matter is much worse than diesel. what are we waiting for to promote short circuits? let us be clear: the european union will not achieve its stated objectives by promoting free trade with the rest of the world.
madam president, i thank the commissioners for finally presenting a long-term strategy, but you have proposed eight scenarios, only the last two of which are aimed at zero emissions by 2050. these rely on techniques of apprentice sorcerers to capture huge and unrealistic amounts of carbon, or even to remove it from the atmosphere. if we want to show the rest of the world that the european union is still the climate champion and to ensure that we stay below 1.5 degrees, the first priority is to reduce our emissions. the bar needs to be raised to achieve a zero-emission economy in the european union by 2040. that's what it means to be a leader on climate change. on the other hand, the latest report by the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) calls for rapid and far-reaching transitions to limit global warming to 1.5 degrees. what does the european commission say for 2030? i didn't say anything. it starts the scenarios in 2030, as if the european union were on the right track. the climate change is here. we have to act now. let's be ambitious: we need to cut emissions by 65 percent compared to 2010 if we really want to achieve greenhouse gas neutrality.
following the alarming conclusions of the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc), the european commission has decided to accelerate the achievement of the paris agreement targets by 2050. the peoples of europe will have to atone for what has structured their way of life for a century and do penance. the penance will be painful, and the commission knows this, since it is prudently considering differentiated treatment according to the member states. my country, france, is ranked among the rich countries. the reality is different: 10 million french people live below the poverty line, the french economy is stagnating and unemployment is not falling below the 10% mark. on this subject, the president of the republic, mr macron, has run into social reality, he has triggered the anger of the yellow vests by increasing taxes on gasoline. this should serve as a warning: punitive ecology, which presses the poorest, is hopeless. so i'm going to make some proposals: first, to reduce greenhouse gases and to finance the ecological transition, we need to tax global flows before we tax people. we can also use the european central bank, as you did to save the banking system. finally, we must adopt a sensible protectionism based on sound environmental standards which will give our companies a competitive edge over their foreign competitors.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, this draft report strangely tends to reinforce the outdated dogma of globalised free trade, which is being rejected by more and more countries. why ask the wto for transparency in the negotiations and claim to be the guarantor of multilateralism when all our trade powers have already been delegated to mr juncker's commission? why should the wto be asked to increase its powers in order to force the hand of the states when it is our interests above all that the union should be defending here? no, free trade does not create jobs. no, the arbitral tribunals do not protect either the states or the consumers. yes, intelligent protectionism, like the renegotiated nafta, can be a solution. if there was one reform to be proposed today, in the context of fair trade, it would be to take agriculture out of the jurisdiction of the wto and free trade agreements. the principle of self-sufficiency and food security does not belong to the firms but to the nations.
trade, to be sustainable and to have a future, must be fair. that was the principle - i have already said it here, mrs malmström knows it and i think she knows the havana charter - no too many deficits, no too many surpluses. trade must not become an economic war which impoverishes others, because then, if it becomes an economic war, it cannot have a future. the havana charter proposed balances to achieve this. put yourself in the shoes of the united states: they have over 600 billion in deficits, 400 billion with china; they want to put tariffs on half of that. you have to understand them: before, of course, they were for open trade since they dominated the world. but in the new balances, they are to restore the balances, they find the charter of havana. and we europeans should do the same, mrs malmström. we have a 120 billion surplus with the united states, we should ask ourselves how to balance our trade and we should ask ourselves how to balance our 170 billion deficit with china. let us take a new organization, let us recapture the spirit of the havana charter.
in writing. the wto is facing an unprecedented crisis and it is urgent to reiterate our support for multilateralism. it is a means of developing international trade based on rules and of combating unfair competition practices. the wto is now in a deadlock: the current cycle is blocked and the last ministerial meetings have failed to reach meaningful agreements. the reform and modernisation of the wto is the key to a new breath for the organisation. the wto must now respond to and take into account current and future challenges such as digital technology, trade in services, the role of smes as drivers, the fight against climate change and gender equality. the eu must take the lead in modernising the wto to ensure fair, equitable, rules-based trade conducted in a spirit of reciprocity and mutual benefit. finally, it is more than urgent that a solution be found to the us blockade of the renewal of judges on the appellate body of the wto dispute settlement mechanism. this deadlock seriously threatens the sustainability of the wto and here too we are counting on european momentum to find a solution.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to begin by paying tribute to serbia on the occasion of the centenary of the first world war. 16% of its population perished in that war. serbia was the first victim of this world war in percentage terms, france in number. once again, it was the empires that made this war, wanted by the second reich, among others, and nations, like serbia and france, that suffered. but serbia is suffering new martyrs: the union demands that belgrade choose between east and west, against its history, its culture, its identity. she's a bridge. the union is also obliged to recognise the independence of kosovo, which was wrested from it by an illegal war of aggression with nato in 1999. the union is, in some ways, a permanent coup d'état against peoples, nations and their identities. is serbia thus being forced to choose one side against the other, when it is one of these two common stories? we are not going to let him find his way back to his own history when kosovo and its legitimate power is given to a mafia masquerading as a state. we must stop this policy of drang nach osten. it only leads to war and it can only lead to war.
in writing. what about this unvarnished report, in which every line is sweetened by an anti-serb bias that the rapporteur does not even try to conceal? first, it is unacceptable to equate a possible exchange of territories between serbia and kosovo with the creation of an 'ethnically pure' state. secondly, while the european union is trying hard to force serbia to recognise kosovo, it is failing to demand that serbia withdraw its measure applying 100% customs duties on serbian imports. moreover, the failure on monday of european commissioner johannes hahn's visit to pristina says all there is to know about the real influence of brussels in a balkan powder keg where the spark is never far away, despite the various and varied privileges generously granted to kosovo, such as its early participation in certain european programmes. but the most unacceptable is the real blackmail against serbia concerning its relations with russia, which reveals the very essence of a european project that is resolutely contrary to national interests.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the commission's reports are always full of euphemisms. the one on kosovo is no exception. we would appreciate the mention of 'early stages of the fight against organised crime' in this state, the heart of trafficking of all kinds. worse, how can the commission boast of kosovo's commitment to the normalisation process with serbia when the provocations are being carried out at a rate that is turning the tide? the recent announcement of a 100% tax on serbian imports is a testament to this, ironically at a time when brussels is singing the free trade anthem in the face of donald trump. finally, what kind of normalization is there when, at the end of october, orthodox pilgrims were welcomed into the studenica monastery by being stoned? the abolition of visas is all the more inconceivable because it may soon lead to a world gone by, judging by the call by the albanian prime minister for a greater albania, which has just set fire to the powder keg of the balkans.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, the british people decided two years ago to leave the european union. his sovereign decision must be respected. for the europe of nations and freedoms group, which i represent today, respect for the sovereignty of each nation is a fundamental principle. it is shocking in this respect that a request to challenge brexit has been lodged with the court of justice of the european union, which will rule on 4 december. it held that no court had jurisdiction to challenge the effects of a referendum. in france, the constitutional council has understood this and refuses to monitor referendums. i very much hope that the court of justice of the european union will adopt the same position. if it were to interpret article 50 of the treaty on european union in a way that was unfavourable to brexit, it would have to be resisted. sovereignty is not a set of competences that can be bound by treaties or left to the subjectivity of judges. it is a meta-juridical power that allows each nation to freely decide its own destiny. long live the british people. long live the brexit.
ladies and gentlemen, i would like to inform you that we are pleased to welcome a delegation from majlisi oli, chaired by sharif rahimzoda, to the visitors' gallery today. the delegation is here in brussels to participate in the seventh european parliament-tajikistan parliamentary cooperation committee. we are very pleased to host this important meeting which will strengthen our dialogue and cooperation. it is an honour to see you here, in the heart of european democracy, as a sign of our common commitment to promoting human rights, political pluralism through the rule of law. on behalf of the whole of the european parliament, ladies and gentlemen, i wish you a fruitful meeting and a pleasant stay in europe.
the agenda calls for votes. (for the results of the votes and other details on them, see minutes)
ma'am, we are actually recording the withdrawal of your name.
this concludes voting time.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, the revision of the visa code is an important issue, which affects some 15 million people who come to our territory for a short stay every year. the report by mr lópez aguilar, whom i thank for all his work, is over 70 pages long. it is going to be adopted at a speed never before seen in the european parliament for such a report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the consolidated text was only made available on 6 and we do not have any translations at the moment. excuse me, for the past few minutes, we've had the translation into nine languages. i think that all of this is not serious and that it is contrary to a number of articles of our rules of procedure, in particular article 156. they want us to vote tomorrow without debate so we can have a trilogue on thursday. this is a total disregard for the legislative work of this parliament. this matter, which has been in limbo for four years because of the council's blockages, can wait a few more weeks. that is why we are asking for the vote to be postponed until the next part-session and for a debate in plenary at least this evening.
mr president, unfortunately, like all those who are not on the agenda, we are not able to ask for the agenda to be postponed, given that we are not represented in the conference of presidents. since our socialist colleagues have raised this question, which concerns the free trade agreement and the partnership with japan, i personally think that the whole matter should be deferred to a later part-session. it is an extremely large, extremely important dossier, with important impact studies, a text that has been communicated to us relatively recently, a document that was signed by mr juncker, except for my mistake, in august, but which has only just been translated into all the languages of the union and therefore i think it would be reasonable to... (the president withdrew from the floor)
mr president, i have a moment. i understood that our colleague was asking for this as an annex to the whole of the discussions on the agreements with japan... (the president withdrew)
for the gue/ngl group mr president, on 24 november, selahattin demirtas wrote to us from his prison asking for our support and solidarity. he has been in prison since november 4, 2016, along with 12 other hdp colleagues and some 5,000 hdp activists. on 20 november, the european court of human rights called for his release, considering that his prolonged detention was contrary, in particular, to article 18 of the european convention and infringed pluralism and the free play of political debate. mr recep erdoğan immediately challenged this decision, considering it non-binding, in defiance of the fact that turkey is a founding member of the council of europe. twenty-nine investigations are under way against mr demirtas, who faces up to 150 years in prison for his political speeches. in two days, a new trial will begin. that is why, in the run-up to the decision of the european court of human rights, we would like a statement from the high representative and a debate to show our support for mr selahattin demirtas and his colleagues.
mr president, the situation in france is extremely worrying. the situation in france is first and foremost a very great social crisis. this is why the social democrats have proposed the topical debate on wednesday at 3 p.m. entitled 'associating workers and citizens in a just transition for a safer planet'. i would like to invite you all to take part in this debate so that we can discuss this issue, because the situation in france is first and foremost this. that is why we are asking for this debate to be postponed and why we are asking for it to be about the french situation, first and foremost about the social question that exists in france, as it exists everywhere in the european union.
mr president, commissioner, in the face of the climate emergency, in the face of the sixth wave of species extinction that the life programme is supposed to stem, the european union has decided to invest just 0.4% of its budget for the next seven years. this is three times less than the budget you have decided to commit to creating the european army and it is twice less than what you will invest in nuclear research, for euratom and iter. this means that you do not consider ecology to be a priority, when it calls for the mobilization of exceptional resources to initiate ecological planning. in view of this urgency, we now call on you to apply the green rule rather than the golden rule. a european green rule, more virtuous for humanity, while you apply a golden rule to satisfy only the satisfied and to satisfy the financial markets.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, the directive on the risks related to exposure to carcinogens or mutagens is very important as it will provide an additional shield for workers. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr claude rolin, for his work and his ability to listen. after a long process, diesel fumes were included in european legislation, protecting 12 million workers from them. the process we have started must continue and be open to workers' representatives at all times, and the precautionary principle must always prevail. this implies that occupational medicine should be given a new lease of life, and that it should have the means to carry out prevention. the situation is so serious that we are told that 100,000 people die every year from these carcinogens. although the full impact is not yet known, especially for children, as health scandals are on the increase. i would also like to take this opportunity to point out that in my country and in my region there are many cases of children being born without arms and hands, cases whose exact causes are not known and for which investigations should be carried out, including by the european institutions. in all things, we must choose life over competition and competitiveness, which too often prevail in our institutions.
for the greens/efa group madam president, ladies and gentlemen, we have been waiting for you for 15 years. finally, the europe that protects is on the rails. workers will now be better protected from exposure to carcinogens and mutagens in the workplace, as cancer is the leading cause of death at work in europe, not accidents at work. one figure, just one: every hour in europe, between 7 and 12 people die of cancer due to exposure to toxic substances at their workplace. the law will now include eight new substances, including one important one: diesel fumes. everyone agrees to end diesel. cities, states, many consumers want to get rid of it. each time it is to protect citizens from pollution and that is very good but it is even better if we do not forget the employees. every year in europe, 12 million workers are exposed to diesel engine exhaust fumes at their workplace. we're talking about people you see every day, who work on the highway, who drive tractors, who work in trucks, who work in toll booths. so, ladies and gentlemen, our aim is to take responsibility and finally, in this parliament, we will understand that we must reconcile health and the environment. this is important, ladies and gentlemen, because we must protect workers in the same way as all other citizens if we are to make real progress in this social europe, and i want to say this in front of you. i also want to congratulate mr rolin on his ability to listen, because that was not won on diesel vapours. i would also like to thank him for the fact that sometimes when we want to go fast, we have moments of stalling, but we succeed because we must not play with the health of the employees in the background. to die in the workplace should be a wake-up call and a wake-up call to this great responsibility.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat cancer, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat it. it was therefore our responsibility to ensure that employment was never again the cause of this destructive evil for workers and their families. the agreement reached between parliament and the council on the second revision of the european directive on the reduction of exposure of workers to harmful substances is therefore welcome. it is a protective agreement for employees but also pragmatic for companies. but our action must not stop there, because every year more than 100 000 europeans still die of occupational cancers: larynx, liver, skin, leukemia, lung, the list goes on. beyond the legislative arsenal, other areas need to be developed. first, we must not neglect the way of prevention and information for workers. this includes the organisation of in-company training on the use of protective equipment such as masks. it is also necessary to set up programmes to support companies in the transition to less polluting systems. finally, more energy and money must be invested in research programmes: they can enable us to develop alternative processes that are as efficient for business as they are harmless to people.
madam president, madam commissioner, today it is absolutely urgent to protect our workers against carcinogens or mutagens which, as we know, will cause the diseases of tomorrow. whether it is trichloroethylene, epichlorohydrin, ethylene dichloride or a mixture of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons containing benzopyrenes, the conclusion is the same: the setting of a practical limit value on the basis of the available information, scientific and technical data is, of course, the right thing to do. i am quite in agreement with the rapporteur when he says that the precautionary principle must be applied to the protection of workers' health. it is sufficient to rely on directive 2004/37/ec and article 191 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. it is clear that exposure to these substances in the workplace is also similar to that of agricultural workers to pesticides. exposure to pesticides is very real and, it seems, all too often overlooked, perhaps because farmers are becoming fewer and fewer and rural areas are often overlooked. we can see that all these problems stem from a common cause: short-term productivism, which is the alpha and omega of the policies pursued under the european treaties, is too often imposed at the expense of health. this, ladies and gentlemen, cannot go on. the european imperative of competitiveness places our workers under the constant threat of relocation. why would you do that? because they are competing with workers from china, south east asia or the indian subcontinent whose working conditions are often very shaky. as the rapporteur himself points out, cancer remains the leading cause of work-related deaths in the european union itself. so i say, our role as elected officials is to protect the health of workers, the economy must be in the service of man and not the other way around.
mr president, i would first of all like to welcome the commission's proposal, and i would like to congratulate you, commissioner, for having paid particular attention to the 'stop glyphosate' citizens' initiative and for having listened to the demands made by this citizens' initiative. i also thank you for your attention to the pressure we have been putting on this house in the wake of the revelation of the monsanto papers. thank you for this proposal. i would also like to strongly condemn the european right which, in the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, showed its true colors, mr president, by giving priority to the protection of intellectual property rights over the precautionary principle and the health of 500 million europeans. i would ask mrs sommer to take note of the vote last week in the committee on pesticides, where we asked - and we voted by a large majority - for the european commission and the agencies to be demanding on the greatest transparency, the greatest independence and strict application of the precautionary principle, in order to protect the health of 500 million europeans. we must be vigilant so that national agencies - and this is the case for the bfr - no longer copy and paste industry studies to regain the trust of european citizens. we must be able to guarantee that the studies used by the european food safety authority are 100% reliable and free from any conflict of interest. it is about regaining the confidence of the european citizens in our institutions, mr president.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, citizens are becoming more and more interested in their food and in how the european system works. the debate on glyphosate is a perfect illustration of this. it is our duty to respond to them and to make our procedures clear, so that they can be understood, because what is not understood is feared. i am therefore in favour of strengthening the procedure and making it more transparent, as a member of the european right, much to the displeasure of my colleague eric andrieu. i would also like to reiterate my commitment to ensuring that decisions are always taken on sound scientific grounds, which alone will enable us to have unquestionable positions so as not to fuel the fears some people have about food. to this end, the independence and proper functioning of our agencies, in particular the european food safety authority (efsa), are fundamental. we must give them the means to our ambitions. as regards the publication of studies, we must strike the right balance between the need for transparency for transparency and the protection of research and innovation in the european union. let us not forget that our enterprises and smes face global competition. it is therefore essential to enable them to stay ahead of the curve in development and innovation. finally, i would like to thank my colleagues for supporting my amendment, which was voted in committee, to the effect that when trade agreements are signed, the union must ensure that the food legislation of partner countries is at least as protective as european legislation in terms of food safety, in order to guarantee the safety of 500 million european consumers and not to distort competition for european producers.
in writing. following numerous scandals, a public debate on pesticides was held, which was taken over by a citizens' initiative. in view of the success of this initiative, the commission considered that public confidence in risk assessments should be strengthened. it decided to submit a legislative proposal in this area concerning the rules on efsa's activities. the desire to increase efsa's transparency can only be welcomed. however, the commission is considering all these amendments even before the conclusions of the pest committee, the european parliament's special committee on the authorisation procedure for pesticides. this procedure suggests that this special committee was set up for the sake of formality, which is very regrettable.
the rapporteur. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to welcome the role played by the decentralised agencies of the european union. spread over the whole of europe, they are an expression of the polycentric nature of the european project and the european union's desire to be close to its citizens by being truly rooted in the territories. these agencies, often unknown to the general public, are essential to the proper functioning of the european institutions. they are the right-hand man, providing them with technical expertise on a wide range of subjects. in the social field too, the agencies often play a shadowy role in the construction and implementation of european policies. this evening we are talking specifically about three workers' stakes in the construction of a social europe, following the momentum initiated by the president of the european commission, jean-claude juncker, and very largely relayed and materialized by the commitment of commissioner thyssen, whom i would like to congratulate. these three agencies are eurofound, working on living and working conditions, eu-osha, focusing on the health and safety of workers, and cedefop, for the development of vocational training. in order to keep pace with the reforms under way, it was essential to provide the three agencies with a framework and tools adapted to the new challenges. i am pleased that we have been able to achieve this with my colleagues in charge of osha and eurofound, whom i really want to congratulate and thank, both my fellow rapporteurs and the non-rapporteurs, because we have really worked together, with the council and the austrian presidency as well, to reform the founding regulations of these agencies. as rapporteur for the regulation on the european centre for vocational training, cedefop, my priority was to lay a sound and solid foundation for the effective functioning of the agency, without touching its dna, namely its tripartite governance structure placing employees, employers and states on an equal footing. in this reform, we have achieved a more transparent and citizen-friendly operation. the new rules proposed strengthen the role given to the european parliament. in concrete terms, our institution, which represents more than 500 million european citizens, will now be represented by an expert on the agency's management board. the european parliament also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. to enable cedefop to move faster and work better, we have also strengthened the role of the director. finally, the new regulation sets out requirements to better respect the gender balance within the agency. what will be the impact of these new rules on citizens? cedefop will be able to function better and therefore work better on vocational training. the issue for our citizens is more skills, because that is what we must aim for, of course. unemployment, especially among young people, remains extremely high and the challenge for the european union in the coming years will be to ensure that our citizens have the skills to face the new digital challenges and the energy transition.
i'm the reporter. madam president, i too would like to thank my colleagues and the commissioner for this debate and for the various interventions which have really brought to the fore all the hard work that has been done collectively for almost two years, with a common desire to make europe work better. i believe that, if for cedefop this new regulation is not a revolution in itself, it is nevertheless an important development which will allow the work that has been started to promote and develop vocational training at european level to continue. as we have said, the unemployment rate remains high in the european union, even if it has fallen, and yet the talents are there and the job offers, at least in some sectors, are also there. we must therefore make sure that the skills available are better matched to the real needs of enterprises, and vocational training has a real role to play here, since it allows people to acquire skills adapted to the exercise of a profession and thus to enter the labour market more easily. i believe that vocational training should really become the first choice of families and europeans. cedefop therefore has an important mission: to create a space for dialogue and exchange between different countries and, in particular, to set an example of countries with best practices.
the joint discussion is closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 december 2018.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of three reports, the first being that of tunne kelam on military mobility, on behalf of the committee on foreign affairs, on military mobility (2018/2156 (ini)) (a8-0372/2018).
this item has been closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 december 2018.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by yana toom, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on education in the digital age: challenges, opportunities and lessons for eu policy-making (2018/2090 (ini)) (a8-0400/2018).
this item has been closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 december 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the brief presentation of the report by mr giorgos grammatikakis, on behalf of the committee on culture and education, on the new european agenda for culture (2018/2091 (ini)) (a8-0388/2018).
this item has been closed. the vote will take place on tuesday, 11 december 2018. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for one-minute speeches on important political issues (rule 163).
this item has been closed.
madam president, madam council representative, on the eve of this council meeting, where you are going to decide on a number of questions relating to the financial framework, i would like to bring you some information from parliament as rapporteur on the financial framework. the commission made its legislative proposal in may, parliament voted by a very large majority an interim report in the form of counterproposals, and all that is missing is you. we are impatient, firstly because there are technical reasons why, with a discussion in october when the commission will be in place, we risk being considerably behind schedule - we have already experienced this, and it was disastrous, in the current financial framework. secondly, because we know that there are disagreements between parliament and the council, between the priorities of parliament for maintaining solidarity policies and the council for other priorities. we therefore ask you to do two things: first, not to follow the commission's recommendation to start a proposal in october 2019, and second, to be alert on the negotiating boxes. in these boxes there are elements of codecision which cannot in any case be incorporated into the discussion on the multiannual financial framework.
on behalf of the efdd group. madam president, mr dombrovskis, mr moscovici, the euro-federalists are sneaking their pawns forward and, without national consultation, are putting the peoples before the fait accompli. we already had the european central bank, we will soon have the european monetary fund, the emf. like the international monetary fund, the imf, this totalitarian instrument, will have the task of taking control of the budgetary policies of the states under the pretext of granting them some subsidies in the event of a financial crisis. the euro-zone summit on 14 december will adopt a measure to artificially increase panic in the financial markets. this is the revision of the collective action clauses in public debt issues. this revision will facilitate the capital losses of private investors, who will consequently flee at the slightest risk of a budgetary slippage of the state. this institutional deception of the european union will use the strategy of fear in the markets to justify the placing of a state under the tutelage of the imf, led by germany of course. italy may be the next victim of this financial totalitarianism. this new betrayal of the peoples, as always, is carried by mr macron, who has given germany the gift of the revision of the clauses of collective action. when the patriotic euro-reformists come to power, we will block the establishment of the emf and these tools of totalitarianism.
madam president, if this european parliament is talking about the next euro-zone summit, it is also time to talk about democracy. i regret that in preparing for this summit neither president tusk nor president centeno were able to take part in our work. i think that's a bad sign. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept it. the euro-zone summit, which is the last chance, during this mandate, to move in the necessary direction of a euro-zone budget, does not look good. the commission's proposal, which was a timid proposal but which was an embryo of a eurozone budget, is simply ignored by the eurogroup, which is content, at least, with a downward revision of a franco-german proposal between june and november, which is moving in the only direction that interests a number of member states, but certainly not those in this parliament who are advocating a real eurozone budget. what is it? between competitiveness, convergence and stability, the focus is on competitiveness, which is not a specific subject for the euro area. convergence is not real convergence, since it does not deal with the question of surpluses or deficits but only serves as a cover for structural reforms. as for the stability function, which is unanimously or almost unanimously - and clearly not within the eurogroup - recognised as the missing function in the euro area budget, it is simply ignored. but we were told that we had to reduce the risks first, and then we would share the risks. this european parliament, at its disposal, day and night, negotiated a banking package which is now tied up. he got a deal on reducing nonperforming loans, and the risk reduction is there, but the risk sharing is evaporating. this is dangerous, this is not sustainable. we are calling out one last time: ladies and gentlemen, heads of state and government, get your act together, the euro area, the euro needs a budget of stability to protect people in the next crisis.
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, the euro is impoverishing us, because a single market is the concentration of wealth towards the most competitive, and germany is the most competitive, it must be said. france is the first trade deficit in the eurozone, it is also the first budget deficit, it is the first public spending in the world, it is also the first fiscal pressure in the world at present. the solutions are known, with a transfer budget, which could have come from the european central bank. i made these proposals in 2012 and they were not taken up. we must create more wealth in the countries of the south if we are to effectively overcome the competitive system. but, mr moscovici, commissioner, these proposals have not been accepted. in a way, you will be the first grave digger of this brussels europe, the single market and the single currency. long live the europe of nations, which will survive!
the rapporteur. mr president, i know that with the elections approaching, anything is possible, but when i hear mr sven schulze, the epp rapporteur, denouncing the mandate here and saying that we should not vote for it because of the elements he himself supported and proposed when he was rapporteur, in particular the aggregation on the first day, it is clear that we are simply facing a political manoeuvre, nothing more. it is not a good thing for the epp rapporteur to denounce today what he himself has proposed. the voters expect us to be consistent and they expect that when you say something, you do it, and that is exactly the opposite of what sven schulze has just done. one last word. today, to refuse the mandate is probably to bury the report and therefore not to protect european workers, be aware of this at the time of this vote.
mr president, new technologies are the new totem of the disconnected elites. this is true, because even as we are being told about the tablet in schools, 60 per cent of rural households do not have access to the latest generation of broadband networks. it is also an expensive totem, expensive for the public authorities, sometimes also expensive for families, while the yellow vests courageously denounce the massive impoverishment of the middle and working classes. worse, this new fad has no proven results, as the oecd confirmed in 2015, not to mention the hidden evils of the internet: explosion of attention disorders, access to violent or pornographic content, harassment. the european union is eager to impose its european education area at all costs, but it is full of hype and arrogance. but it is clear that its digital education is just an expensive strap that will not remedy the essential problem: the endless fall in the school and academic level of young europeans.
mr president, the integration of migrants is the mantra of this new agenda for culture. venice may soon be buried under water, our castles sold or demolished, between the two missions entrusted to the european union, namely the valorisation of cultural heritage and the promotion of diversity, brussels will have definitively decided for the latter in favour of an ever more exotic diversity. the european year of cultural heritage thus conceals a more raw reality, that of the decay of so many centuries-old buildings and monuments, which are weighed down by austerity policies, as evidenced by italy, which has the largest number of sites listed by unesco and was forced to cut its cultural expenditure by almost half in ten years to please the commission's small accountants. this double narrative is underpinned by a fundamental contradiction: the tendency to exalt a european identity while denying what makes it cemented, that is, the fruit of millennia-old humanistic and christian cultures. this is the legacy we must celebrate.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, with this special committee we have been able to measure how much jihadist terrorism, but also the rise of other forms of violent extremism, constitute a lasting and complex threat to our continent. unfortunately, this threat is today rooted as much in the activism of radical groups outside our borders as in the reality of our european societies. parliament therefore had to show its credibility in dealing with these sensitive issues and this text provides an excellent basis. it responds to citizens' concerns, proposes concrete measures to support professionals engaged in counter-terrorism and takes into account the needs of victims. it must be acknowledged that many initiatives - as you have mentioned, commissioner - are already under way by the commission and the member states. this is particularly true for the most important of these initiatives, which is not necessarily the most spectacular for the general public: interoperability, which is something absolutely crucial. contrary to the illusions of some, there is no magic wand in counter-terrorism, and the key is certainly not to pile up structures at european level, but it is imperative to streamline exchanges, to use european platforms more systematically and to harmonise counter-terrorism methods and legislation from the top. the temptation now is to relativise the threat, because it is more widespread and because some terrorist organisations have suffered military setbacks, but that would be a grave mistake, because the last three decades have taught us that jihadist terrorism proceeds from a real ideology of determined, organised, adaptable groups. we must therefore remain extremely vigilant and the recommendations of this report must be put into practice quickly, both at the level of the european institutions and at the level of the member states.
for the gue/ngl group mr president, there are some subjects which are difficult to debate because they quickly unleash passion, which often prevents reason from coming first. we have, however, largely escaped this in the context of these special committees, and i welcome this, even though our views may differ quite widely. we agree on one thing. our citizens have a right to security, and the fight against terrorism must be a priority. but our citizens also have a right to security, which means that their rights must be protected, including against the risks of abuse of power by public authorities. this means that the end, however legitimate, does not justify any means and, in particular, that any infringement of rights and freedoms must be justified by the principles of necessity, finality and proportionality. that is why we are against the increase in the exchange of information. an increasing number of people are being arrested, including those who may have been intending to commit an act. this theory of generalized suspicion is not the right method, especially of prevention. there is no justification for a hierarchy of fundamental rights, just as there can be no second-class citizens or second-generation citizens with different rights. we reject the stigmatisation of whole sections of the population. although improved during the negotiations, this report still falls short of our expectations. it proposes to pursue what i would call, for lack of time, a security leap forward, particularly in the area of border controls, and it does not avoid certain amalgamations with migration issues. democracy is the balance between safety, security and the protection of fundamental rights. to abandon it is to give the floor to what we are supposed to be fighting against, which is why we will not vote for this report. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the answer is 'blue card'. dear madam, the best thing to do when asking a question is to pay attention to what the person has said. i never said we were against exchanges of information, i said we were against the multiplication of exchanges, especially with regard to people who might even have an intention. i am french, and the examples you give are, if i may say so, familiar to me. so it is not a question of preventing services from working together, but of avoiding the proliferation of automatic exchanges of information, behind which we would not have the human resources to really achieve results. so don't twist my words, it's the least we can do when we're respectful of debate.
for the greens/efa group mr president, the fight against terrorism is one of the greatest challenges facing the european union. it is absolutely imperative that we protect our people from the threats that are facing them. we will be stronger if we deepen our cooperation: exchange of information, strengthening of mutual trust, extension of the powers of the european public prosecutor's office, all these advances are necessary. we must improve the detection of illicit financial flows, and continue to fight tax evasion and organised crime, which are the blood relatives of terrorist financing networks. but it would be an illusion to believe that the effectiveness of counter-terrorism policy is limited to police matters. our response must be more comprehensive, we must invest in the cohesion of our societies and we must dry up the sources of violent extremism. we must reject the surveillance of our societies, the generalized suspicion and stigmatization of certain sections of the population. for under the guise of fighting terrorism, the advocates of the clash of civilizations and the enemies of democracy actually want to extend their influence, whether to divide society by fomenting fear and hatred or to silence opposition. for example, an environmental activist who only denounces a disastrous nuclear waste disposal project in bure, france, should not be subjected to the state's use of counter-terrorism. that's the wrong target. let us not make a mistake in this fight: the defence of democracy and our most basic rights is the best defense against fanaticism and blind violence.
mr president, commissioner, we are coming to the end of more than a year of intensive, thorough, serious and balanced work in the light of the safeguarding of fundamental rights, carried out by tackling the major issue of our time, which is particularly sensitive and serious and which is also one of the main concerns of our fellow citizens. the terrorist threat knows no material or immaterial borders and that is why, by taking on our political responsibilities and not just by working on a technical aspect, our parliament, through its work, through the work of the committee, has identified what needs to be done to develop, alongside the member states, a real added value to combat this scourge. to carry out this work, to make the diagnosis, the commission has constituted a veritable forum, a sort of european platform on terrorism, which has allowed us to listen, to hear, to meet, to work, to deepen, to question all the major actors of the european union as a whole. the two objectives are to learn from the past, to identify good practices, to identify shortcomings and, above all, to look to the future, through these recommendations which cover a multitude of the challenges facing our time: radicalisation, exchange of information, judicial and police cooperation between intelligence services, victims' rights, the fight against the means of action of terrorist organisations. we call for the creation of a centre of excellence to prevent radicalisation and work in the heart of neighbourhoods alongside the states. we call for the strengthening of european agencies, in particular europol, which must become a real centre for the exchange of information and cooperation in the fight against terrorism, a sort of european fbi. the commission will also be working with eurojust to extend the powers of the european public prosecutor's office to include the fight against terrorism. on the core of the mandate, the report calls for an approach to the sharing of information by default on all terrorism-related data between states and the relevant european agencies, except of course on current cases and without altering the protection of sources, which is a major element. we call for the creation of a european programme to monitor the financing of terrorism so that we are not dependent on our american friends, and, of course, for a coordination centre for victims. i thank the co-rapporteurs and all the members of this committee for their hard work, despite our differences and our ideologies. i thank them from the bottom of my heart. (the rapporteur agrees to answer a question by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection)
the commission has already taken action on this. mrs griesbeck, you say that our hearings have been substantial, which is true, and you say that one of the conclusions you draw from them is that a kind of european fbi should be created through europol. i wonder at what point you heard the professionals who have succeeded each other in our panels make this claim, especially since you yourself speak of an information exchange hub and then you talk about a european fbi, which means a much more intrusive and much more executive mandate. so i am a little puzzled by the contradictions i perceive in this proposal.
the answer is 'blue card'. mr president, thank you for allowing me to clarify my point of view. i said in my speech just now, i'm sure, a sort of european fbi in the long run. we are going to be dealing with this issue for many years to come. i have not had time to say that there is no such thing as a zero threat and that it will not be so soon. and the idea of eventually having a more european operation with an even more european tool, beyond the information-sharing hub that it is today and that it is consolidating, can be a hope without being a utopia.
madam president, just one observation i would have made to mrs gomes if she had democratically allowed me to question her and a few other speakers. i heard a lot about far-right terrorism, and then i also heard the usual curses against populism. i would be very happy if the speakers who spoke on this subject could give me a single example of an attack by the extreme right or populists in my own country, france. (applause from the visitors' gallery)
in writing. by openly criticising radical islam, by acknowledging that there are terrorists in the migration flows and that schengen has security flaws, this text is surprisingly objective, which we welcome. the definition of threat and protection of critical infrastructure is correct even if the recommendations against radicalisation sometimes lack conviction: the politically correct still finds it difficult to call a mosque a mosque . the desire to increase interoperability between member states and between agencies (provided that subsidiarity is fully respected) is common sense on international terrorism issues. the text will also promote assistance to victims of terrorism, an essential measure to avoid double punishment. finally, the recommendations on the ban on the sale of visas, the blacklisting of hate preachers (imam) and the closure of radicalised mosques are (finally!) welcome. the eu has mastered the art of declarations of intent. let us hope that after a sincere assessment, parliamentarians will actually take the appropriate measures: control of immigration and borders, eradication of radical islam. dismantling of the financing subsidiaries.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall not, of course, go into the negotiating conditions for this treaty for a moment, but i would like to point out two scandalous elements. in french polynesia, where giant japanese tuna boats threaten the small-scale fishing industry in the south pacific. in the mediterranean, where illegal japanese industrial fishing is rampant, while our resource-conscious fishermen scrupulously adhere to the moratoriums you have imposed on them. before passing this trade agreement, the commission would have been well advised to ask japan to respect our maritime sovereignty and our french fishermen. by not doing so, brussels is implicitly allowing japanese factory ships to plunder our stocks in the mediterranean, and that is unacceptable. fair trade agreements that respect our nations, our companies, their employees and the environment are what our compatriots and the peoples of europe legitimately demand and demand, no more, no less, but no less. then hear them!
madam president, are we meant to work with japan? our societies, like japanese society, are societies of ancient civilization, they are peaceful, democratic societies, which are also subject to similar problems: the decline of the population, sometimes dramatic, its aging and also the loss of relative importance in world production. i will not go back on the lack of transparency in the negotiations. whatever it was, we were very little, very badly and very late informed. there are positive aspects in this report for our agriculture, which i do not think is competing with japanese products, because our production is specific to what is going on there. the situation is far more dangerous for the car. there is a safeguard clause which calls on the commission to be vigilant. the commission will be vigilant in the event of destabilisation, but what will it do? will she be able to renege on this agreement? it's not obvious. as for the strategic partnership, which is praised for its multilateralism, it will not in reality be able to disarm japan from the american tank which is, for the moment, its security umbrella.
vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, the fate of selahattin demirtaş is an issue which, i believe, lies close to the hearts of many of us. he has been for long years an interlocutor for many and a key figure in turkey’s democratic debate. so today we are discussing not just the fate of a human being, which is probably the most important thing the chamber can discuss, but also the state of turkey’s democracy. we are discussing the individual and collective rights of all turkish citizens. in the past two years, we have witnessed the detention of elected politicians, journalists and academics. we are well aware of the incredible challenge that turkey faced, back in july 2016, with the attempted coup d’état but today the state of emergency is over and this should be the time to strengthen turkey’s democracy. the independence of turkey’s judiciary is being undermined. fundamental rights such as the presumption of innocence are often ignored and violated. on the one hand, the case of mr demirtaş reflects these wider trends and, on the other hand, this case is quite unique. demirtaş is a member of parliament, a former presidential candidate, the co-chair of his party and a democratically elected leader. his case is about pluralism in turkey and the right of every individual freely to take part in their country’s democratic life, and, for this reason too, we have followed his case since his detention more than two years ago. on the day of his detention, commissioner hahn and i described him as ‘our trusted and valued interlocutor’, and i believe many in this chamber will share these views. as you know, i raised this case again, in public and in private, during my last meeting with foreign minister mevlüt çavuşoğlu at the high level political dialogue in ankara last month. that, by the way, was a very fruitful, open and constructive meeting, and i’m very happy about that. this was just two days after the ruling by the european court of human rights which we are discussing today. the court had ruled that mr demirtaş’ extended detention violated the european convention on human rights. as commissioner hahn and i said in ankara, just a couple of weeks ago during this meeting, we expect the turkish authorities, including the turkish judiciary, to follow up in an appropriate manner on the recommendations by the council of europe and on the rulings by the european court of human rights. we expect to see concrete progress in turkey on the rule of law and fundamental freedoms, including those of mr demirtaş. the court in this case has described his detention as an unjustified interference with the free expression of the turkish people’s opinion and with his right to be elected and to sit in parliament. the court found, ‘beyond reasonable doubt’ that his time in prison had the purpose to suffocate pluralism and turkey’s democratic debate. let me remind everyone that the european convention on human rights does not belong to the european union nor to any of our member states. it is the result of work done in the 1950s by the council of europe, and turkey is a proud founding member of the council of europe. the european convention on human rights is embedded in turkey’s domestic law so this is a violation not of a recommendation from the european union but of turkey’s own laws, principles and values. mr demirtaş’ legal status has changed now, following a recent ruling in another case by a turkish court of appeal. nonetheless, i believe that it is not only turkey’s responsibility but also in turkey’s interest to follow up immediately on rulings by the european court of human rights. this is not just about turkey’s status as a candidate country. i would like to be very clear on this. i believe it is about the kind of country the turkish people and citizens want and deserve: a country with stronger institutions, a more inclusive country, and a country where all the people of turkey can find their place and contribute to turkish society’s collective progress. what we would like to see, as the european union, is a strong, free, secure, prosperous and democratic turkey as a key neighbour and partner in our region, not just as a candidate country. it is in our shared interest to contribute to this, and all the turkish people should know that they can count on the european union to be at their side for a secure, democratic, free and prosperous turkey.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, madam high representative, selahattin demirtas has written to us from prison to ask for our support and solidarity. tomorrow a new trial will begin in ankara, and my colleague anne-marie minor will be present. like so many kurds and progressives in turkey, mr demirtas was arrested more than two years ago. he has been the subject of 29 investigations and faces up to 150 years in prison. the bulk of the indictment is based on speeches made in support of the peace process in turkey, which the european union has been accompanying. only yesterday, in diyarbakir and batman, about 50 people were arrested. their crime: supporting the hunger strike of another kurdish mp, leyla güven. that is why the detailed decision of the european court of human rights, which you have just mentioned, calling for the immediate release of mr demirtas on the grounds that his indefinite provisional detention was prejudicial to pluralism and the free play of democratic debate, has been a windfall of hope. mr erdoğan said that this was not a binding decision, flouting the council of europe's law. we have asked for this debate because mr demirtas is indeed a symbol of what is happening in turkey, and to ask you how, in practical terms, you can act to enforce the decision of the european court of human rights.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, as david mcallister and ioan paşcu have very aptly pointed out, we are experiencing a total change in the international order, and this should lead all europeans to draw the logical, natural and automatic lesson that they must finally take matters into their own hands in the field of security. unfortunately, we are not there yet, although there is progress, and i think we still have a number of obstacles ahead of us. there is a problem in believing that others will continue to provide for our security, particularly through nato, which is an organisation that undoubtedly has many merits, but whose reliability of alliances is not entirely guaranteed, and in any case does not exhaust all the work that needs to be done in terms of crisis management in our environment. the second obstacle is also an excess of euphoria, if you will allow me. i find in particular that the recent statements by some european leaders, including the french president, who call for a european army, do not help to make pragmatic progress towards, i was going to say, a common defence policy which already requires a great deal of effort, and we see that we are far from the mark. so you have to persevere. i believe that, from this point of view, mr paşcu's report is exploring the right avenues and i think that the work you are doing is also leading in the right direction.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, mr mcallister, you say that europe must become a sovereign power. but take the treaty of lisbon: our sovereignty is already limited, as in the former soviet union, here by the foreign policy of the european union linked to nato, there by the systematic openness, which lets the merchants govern and finance decide. moreover, there can be no european sovereignty without a european people, and so european sovereignty is an illusion because i know only the german, french and italian peoples. what unites us in our differences is christendom, which is quick to deny the european union with its relativism, secularism and atheistic humanism. my colleague paşcu says that european states must pursue a common defence policy to strengthen european identity. to do this, he is agitating the external bully, russia, which has nevertheless regained its european identity by breaking away from communism and returning to its orthodox heritage. he is pushing for war against russia in order to unite us, the west, precisely against this european identity which he wants to defend, an identity made up of the two lungs of europe and russia.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, commissioner, the european union's irresponsible policy towards ukraine is clearly a failure. the report of the agreement itself cites the continued power of the oligarchs and the persistence of endemic corruption in state institutions. the power established under the influence of brussels, i would remind you, is proving to be a failure every day. a sharp decline in gdp in the third quarter, a record trade deficit and, above all, the explosion of poverty, with a gdp per capita of less than $3,000. ukraine has become the poorest country in the whole of europe. worse still, the report ignores the evil deeds of neo-nazi militias in the pay of the government, who carry out attacks and murders with impunity. secondly, the report boasts of the notorious interference in the upcoming elections by ngos such as moving forward together. how dare you lecturers on the subject of electoral interference! finally, i would like to condemn in the strongest terms the agricultural part of the agreement. it is a further blow to our farmers, and particularly to our cereal farmers, who have every reason to fear massive imports of ukrainian wheat.
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, it is my pleasure to attend parliament’s debate today on the eu budget for 2019, in particular as this year’s negotiations were quite difficult. the commission had to present us with a new draft budget and we had very little time to come to the conclusion. on behalf of minister löger, who unfortunately could not make it today to strasbourg, i would like to thank the chair of the european parliament’s committee on budgets, jean arthuis, and the rapporteurs, daniele viotti and paul rübig. their constructive approach was great during the whole annual budgetary procedure. thank you for your openness to compromise and for the positive atmosphere persisting among our institutions during the last months and weeks. their efforts made this agreement possible. i would also like to thank all other colleagues from parliament who, during long and stressful hours in the council’s premises, showed patience and a spirit of compromise. finally, i would like to thank commissioner oettinger for facilitating our negotiations. without your support, commissioner, it would have been, by far, more difficult to reach a balanced and timely agreement. we have been able to establish a realistic budget providing, on the one hand, the necessary appropriations to cover the needs expected in 2019, but leaving, on the other hand, adequate margins to cope with contingencies in the course of next year. the agreement on the 2019 budget was reached thanks to the readiness for compromise on both sides of the table. during our various meetings in the course of this year in trilogue or conciliation format, as well as during many informal contacts, it became clear that parliament and the council share the same two main priorities for the financial year 2019: to tackle challenges related to migration and security and to boost innovation, growth and employment in europe. in the union budget for 2019, we have been able to translate these priorities into concrete figures. after the successful outcome reached by the trilogue on 4 december 2018, the general affairs council today has formally approved the joint text. the council expects parliament to approve the agreement tomorrow in order to adopt the general budget for the financial year. i would really like to thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome. the commission is grateful that, after difficult negotiations, an agreement was reached on 4 december on the 2019 budget of the european union. it was not easy, but i believe that thanks to the intensive cooperation of your colleague, mr minister löger, the rapporteur and jean arthuis, the chairman, we all agreed with a sufficient willingness to compromise and still achieved our essential objectives for fiscal policy next year. i think parliament can be satisfied with this budget. let me just make a few points which are important for next year. we have earmarked eur 80.5 billion for growth and employment, of which over eur 57 billion comes from the european structural and investment funds alone. research and thus competitiveness was a priority and a major concern of the parliament. we will increase horizon 2020 considerably next year compared to this year, by almost 10 per cent to 12.3 billion euros. ten percent more research next year, that's a word. young people who should have more opportunities to develop their educational and vocational qualifications and to get to know europe. the erasmus+ programme also a priority of the parliament, supported by the council and the commission will be increased by around 19.5% compared to 2018 to a maximum of €2.8 billion. in addition, the commission has agreed to propose an increase of another 100 million euro to the two budgetary authorities by way of amendment in the spring of next year. we are continuing the youth employment initiative with a sum which will remain very substantial next year, so that it can successfully create new jobs and help young people to find jobs, particularly in southern europe. the budget for next year for the area of migration and security provides for sufficient funds to implement an effective migration, refugee and security policy and to provide effective financial support for the implementation of the measures already in place, such as amif and its agencies, such as europol, eurojust and easo. in the area of climate action, we are increasing the life programme to help achieve the 20% target as mainstream proportionally in the budget by the end of 2020. the refugee facility is secure. the second tranche will be financed with 3 billion. i am grateful that this will enable europe's credibility and commitment to refugees who are currently living in turkey and for whom we are funding human dignity. we have also increased the funds for the un relief agency for palestinian refugees in the middle east considerably. the fact that we have again cut pre-accession aid to turkey is due to the backsliding in turkey in the areas of the rule of law, democracy, human rights and the media. i am glad that parliament is being allowed to implement all the pilot projects it has proposed, and that the funding for all the pilot projects is in the 2019 budget. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use is a good one. i believe that despite the approaching may election day, despite the considerable differences in the initial position of the council and parliament, you have all, we have all demonstrated our willingness to make europe a force for good. a good budget, agreed upon! i would like to thank mr arthuis, mr viotti, mr rübig, mr löger and his entire team.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam minister, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i too would like to express our satisfaction. we are at the end of a long negotiation. it is true that we tried to find a compromise during the budgetary conciliation, but on the evening of 19 november we had to realize that we could not succeed, and at that moment commissioner oettinger put the work back on track, he offered us a new possibility of compromise, we met on 4 december, and the trilogue was successful. let me thank president hartwig löger for his availability at each of our meetings, and i would like to thank in particular commissioner oettinger and his team, who have consistently and resolutely put on the table elements of compromise that have enabled us to make progress. i would also like to greet and congratulate my colleagues, our general rapporteur, mr viotti, our rapporteur for the other sections, mr paul rübig, also jens geier, for the agencies, and thank all the members of the committee on budgets. we have done a good job and i would like to say to mr kölmel that we have always been concerned to check the added value of the appropriations committed in this budget of the european union. we wanted to put this budget at the service of europeans, at the service of young people, at the service of innovation, growth, employment, security and defence, but we also wanted to give ourselves the means to better control migration flows and to welcome the many migrants and refugees in humane conditions. what i found particularly positive was the response we received to two major priorities. i am thinking first of research: we were able to register an additional 150 million as a last resort and, as you recalled, commissioner, horizon 2020 is progressing by almost 11% compared to 2018. this is how we prepare the future of europe. as regards erasmus, which is so dear to us, we were able to enrol an additional 240 million compared to what the commission had originally planned and what the council had approved. we have achieved a great result and i would like to thank once again all those who have made this possible. i would only have two complaints, which i will mention very briefly. the first is that by putting a billion on the table to finance the facility for syrian refugees in turkey, we have put a strain on parliament. the budgetary authority is composed of two branches and everything is negotiable. but by telling us very clearly that there was no negotiation possible, it was in a way altering the authority of the parliament. the second element that has held us back is the application of article 15 (3) of the new financial regulation. it has been in force since 1 august last and i pay tribute to the commission for having the intelligence to put it on the table. this article is intended to record appropriations not used in research activities alone. we couldn't finish this year. i have no doubt that we will achieve this in the coming years, when the council has been able to familiarize itself with these provisions. i believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is the last budget of the mandate. of the five budgets we have negotiated with the council, i believe this is the one which most directly meets parliament's expectations. this is a victory, i hope, for europe.
mr president, mr commissioner, madam representative of the council, this was said when voting on the 2019 budget as it was adopted at the trilogue meeting and following the failure of conciliation, our parliament will offer our fellow citizens the best envelope for several years. this must be emphasised and this is the message that the european parliament will be sending. the battle with the council has been hard, long and, of course, well fought by the whole negotiating team, to which i pay tribute, the chairman of the committee on budgets and our general rapporteur, daniele viotti, to whom i thank once again. we have obtained reinforcements in our priorities: youth, research, climate change, the reception of refugees, and we will vote the approval of this budget head on. but, because there is a but, and it must be said, the council's categorical refusal to activate article 15 (3) of the financial regulation - this has been mentioned - was a huge disappointment. it is incomprehensible that this remarkable tool for better budgetary consumption, which was wanted by the member states themselves and by the commission, could not be used. we will remember this in the preparation of the next multiannual financial framework and the next budget for 2020.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i would first like to thank the rapporteurs for their very good work. the connecting europe facility is such a relevant instrument that it has been renewed for the next financial framework. i do not dispute its merits, its functioning and all that it will enable us to do, which has been developed by my colleagues. i simply wanted to say that it is a fund and that, as a fund, the most important thing is its budgetary allocation and i am worried. i am concerned, firstly, because this appropriation will only be really fixed in the multiannual financial framework, that is, it will be fixed in time, but not now. secondly, there is a threat - we have talked about this - to the cohesion funds, and it would probably be to the detriment of the cohesion countries if this transfer of funds were undermined. i regret that my proposal to transfer the 20 billion from the erdf was not accepted because we see that there is a huge distortion between the needs, 500 billion, and the funds available. given both the needs and the merits, the lack of funding is still a problem of some concern. the quality of its centralised management must be emphasised. i hope that the staffing will be commensurate with our needs and ambitions.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, there are times when political debate, political debate, is not appropriate. the citizens of strasbourg are experiencing a dramatic situation at the moment, while we are confined to parliament. i can only support them and wish them every possible courage. in these particularly difficult times, i would like to see our debates suspended. but i will come back to the debate because i know that i have two colleagues, mr pavel telička and mr marian-jean marinescu, who have done an extraordinary job. this is a major text we are voting on, as it will decide how europe will finance its transport infrastructure for the next ten years, until 2027. the next ten years will be crucial for the ecological and social transition, because we have no choice. we need to make low-carbon, clean and inclusive mobility for both suburban and rural areas. to these long-term challenges, i would add another, namely brexit. we are in great danger, as we saw again yesterday, with the postponement of the british vote. the risk of an accidental no deal increases. i therefore call for exceptional measures on transport, to strengthen links between ireland and the continent by all means - that is european solidarity - to support ports and shipping companies that cross the channel and, finally, to provide financial support for the territories that will see a new external border emerge.
mr president, i am intervening in a debate which is not mine, i did not intend to do so. my dear colleagues, madam commissioner, we are in strasbourg today, where dramatic events are taking place. there is a mad shooter on the streets of strasbourg, there are two dead and eight wounded, according to the latest reports, and the shooter is still not arrested. i am a member of parliament from this constituency, and i was due to debate the european defence fund later on, and i can assure you that i have neither the mind nor the heart for the debate. my thoughts and heart are with the victims, with the police who are trying to catch this terrorist, with the people of strasbourg. so i wish we could stop the debate tonight, because there is also the image we are sending back. we are in strasbourg, and i do not know how the people of strasbourg will react tomorrow when they learn that here in the european parliament in strasbourg the debate has continued as if nothing had happened. i do not want to be a lecturer, i simply say that i am personally withdrawing from this debate for tonight and that it would be good if we could still mark the moment, in view of the dramatic events taking place here in strasbourg.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, you will allow me a few more seconds, as a frenchman, to first of all express my thoughts to the victims and their families, my support for the city of strasbourg and also to thank our police forces, who tirelessly ensure our protection. i think it was fundamental to continue working, because democracy must never give in to violence. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, while the regulation we adopted six months ago allows the first projects to be launched at the beginning of 2019, this fund of 13 billion confirms the strengthening of our european defence. i want to thank you, mrs. bieńkowska, for your tireless motivation to defend this fund. i also thank our rapporteur for his work and i am counting on him to make parliament's position known on certain points which are essential to the proper functioning of this fund. in an increasingly unstable and dangerous world, we must provide better security for our citizens, as they demand better protection against new threats. do we want to be dependent on third countries alone, when the international situation is fragile and calls for freedom of action? do we want to continue to multiply the duplicates, when the member states can no longer carry out the major projects on their own? the technologies and equipment needed to keep our armies running are increasingly sophisticated and interconnected. cooperation is therefore essential. the council will have to face up to its responsibilities during the trilogue. this fund must be attractive to companies, this requires financing, the direct and indirect eligible costs must be taken into account to a large extent so that the financing is commensurate with the investment and industrial risks. but it also requires clear and community governance. the european commission, under the control of parliament, must be the one to implement and manage this fund, this is the only way to guarantee a genuine community approach. we also need effective ethical controls that bring visibility to investors, as well as very tight eligibility conditions. it is crucial to prevent the leakage of our technological know-how, we must reserve all the funding for european industry.
on behalf of the alde group. mr president, i thank the rapporteur and my fellow fictitious rapporteurs for this european defence fund, which is the first building block in the construction of a genuinely european defence capability, with the aim of ensuring our industrial autonomy in the field of defence and opening the door to a stronger europe at international level. the aim of this fund is to support european industries, this time in the field of defence, to enable them to collaborate, develop, optimise their production and reduce costs. it is 11.4 billion, as our commissioner has said, and this is not a negligible figure. 1.6 billion a year to consider and compare for example with the 3.5 billion that france invests in r & d a year, the 1.4 billion of germany, the 162 million of spain or the 107 million of sweden - you see that this is a large sum. it is a community fund, it has ethical guarantees, it has been said. it will be under direct management, which will ensure its european added value. this question will probably determine whether the european defence fund will be the pillar of a new european defence policy, which i think we all hope for.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, france, like other european countries, was struck again, bloodied, mourned by terrorism, last night, right here in strasbourg. i would like to express on behalf of our group, europe of nations and freedoms, my condolences and solidarity with the victims, their families and their loved ones. the fight against islamist terrorism must be a top priority and we have the responsibility and the duty to equip ourselves to fight this war that is being waged against us and to win it. mr president, since 1974 your country, cyprus, has been subject to an outrageous turkish occupation of half its territory. yes, the invasion by the turkish army and the subsequent occupation are outrageous, but who is still shocked? the truth is that the european union has never supported cyprus against the turks. on the contrary, it has been more than 30 years since turkey entered into negotiations to join the european union, having enjoyed a particularly advantageous association agreement since 1963. each year, the european union pays it much more in pre-accession funds than it does in member states such as cyprus. refusing to go to war with erdoğan, who dreams of a new ottoman empire as sultan, the european institutions give in to all his demands, which are the whims of a spoiled child who has never been told no. we boasted when we got turkey to sign an agreement on migrants, but it was actually a new market for fools. turkey has pocketed a few billion from the generous europeans, and the rewards are obviously not up to par. this is clearly seen in cyprus, and it is happening right now. just yesterday, we heard that more than half of the 8,000 asylum seekers you have in cyprus had quietly arrived from the north of the island thanks to turkish smugglers. 8,000 for a country of less than one million people is a lot, and the pressure to migrate has increased further in recent weeks. but turkey's dirty role should not absolve you of your own responsibilities. on monday, after your country signed the disastrous global compact on migration in marrakesh, you celebrated international human rights day. "with rights and freedoms for all", you say, but without compulsion or coercion. so you are in agreement with the authors of this text which is a suicide for the european nations. yes, suicidal, since it is about abolishing the very concept of illegal immigration in order to create a kind of universal right to migrate, for men without ties, off the ground, cut off from their roots. some people claim that this text would not be binding, but then why did the united states, australia, israel and so many european countries refuse to sign it? and why did the coalition government in belgium simply explode because of this text and the disagreements about it? but i would also like to return to the financial and banking crisis that hit your country in 2012 and 2013. the cypriots were, in a sense, guinea pigs for the austerity measures that the troika, led by mr mélenchon's friend and very docile alexis tsipras, was about to impose on greece. there is no need to show any more collusion between european leaders and banks, from macron to barroso, who went to work for goldman sachs as soon as his mandate as head of the european commission ended. hence the tailor-made creation - i dare say on order - of the single resolution mechanism. as in cyprus, in the event of a bank failure, it is the savers who will have to pay the surcharge again, as their accounts could be automatically punched. this is despite the fact that the bailout of european banks has already cost our taxpayers a great deal in 2008. this is a real gang racket organized by the state and the banks, and this is precisely what the yellow vests are rebelling against in my country, france.
mr president, mr president anastasiades, thank you for being with us. many years ago, as head of the high-level contact group with turkish cypriots, i was able to experience firsthand the great suffering of the greek and turkish cypriots as a result of the partition of the island. it is intolerable that a member state of the european union which must play a fundamental role in the south of this mediterranean basin should again be invaded by turkey. the greatest concern we had at the time was that turkish cypriots were becoming a minority in relation to turkish settlers and our fear was that the young people, that this new generation who had only known the partition of the island, would get used to this and would not feel a sense of belonging to the european union. can you reassure me on this youth issue?
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of the french delegation of the epp and more generally on behalf of all the members of parliament present here, to express my sincere condolences to the victims and the families of the victims of the terrorist attack that took place yesterday in strasbourg. like all my colleagues, i was in strasbourg yesterday. i could feel this atmosphere of exceptional tension. i could imagine the stress of families who had no news of their loved ones, the suffering of the victims' loved ones. despite the repetition of these vile acts of terrorism, we will never get used to them and, moreover, we must not get used to them. it is with a heavy heart and sadness that i send them my every wish of support, though modest, i agree, given the extent of the suffering they must endure. i would also like to pay tribute to the police, the military and the emergency services who were able to respond yesterday, even though we know that they have already been under severe pressure for several weeks in france. they are the pride of our country. our presence in this chamber today also underlines that democracy continues, that france and europe stand firm. it is not just strasbourg that was attacked yesterday, it is france and, even more so, europe as a whole that was targeted. it is a model of civilization that has been targeted, a certain notion of freedom that these barbarians are trying to muzzle. let those who want to bring us to our knees hear our message: european democracy as a whole remains united, standing and dignified. terrorism will not pass. (applause) i would like to thank
like scavengers, you're throwing yourself on the uncooled remains of your victims to make a political act of it. shame on you! (applause) i would like to thank
president-in-office of the council. – mr president, i congratulate you on concluding your vote on the budget of the european union for the financial year 2019. the council notes with satisfaction that the european parliament has confirmed the agreement reached at the trilogue on 4 december. i shall take this opportunity to extend thanks once again – on behalf of minister löger, of course – to the chair of the committee on budgets (budg), jean arthuis, and the rapporteurs, daniele viotti, paul rübig and jens geier, as well as to other members of parliament who participated in the budgetary procedure, for their constructive approach.
president of the committee on budgets. mr president, madam minister, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our assembly has just voted on the 2019 budget for the european union. this is the fifth, but last, budget of the mandate which began in 2014. it is probably the one that best meets the expectations and priorities of our parliament: jobs, growth, youth, innovation, migration, climate, security, defence. with two major advances in favour of research and in favour of erasmus. the commission is also proposing to increase the number of projects in the erasmus programme by 80% over five years, and parliament's contribution will be 22%, including 240 million from the 2019 budget. it is a budget that is rigorous, that is economical and efficient, a budget that is demanding in terms of added value, a budget that serves europeans, a budget for a europe that prepares our future, a europe that protects us, a europe that aspires to become a world power. i thank the austrian presidency, i thank the commissioner, mr oettinger, and i thank our rapporteurs.
the agenda calls for the topical debate (rule 153a) on the following topic: 'involving workers and citizens in a just transition for a safer planet' (2018/2973 ((rsp)). i would draw your attention to the fact that this debate does not involve any on-demand interventions and that there will be no blue-boxing either.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, ladies and gentlemen, i have been hesitant for a long time to speak in this debate, wondering if the time was right. i want to tell you that the continuation of our debate today is the victory of democracy over terror, the victory of freedom over those who try to muzzle it, so allow me to speak on the subject on the agenda today, as i originally planned. six months ago, emmanuel macron was welcomed by this assembly as the head of state who was doing everything right. he had a great future ahead of him, and you remember, i came to you at that time to tell you to be vigilant. eight months later, the cards seem to be rolled back. indeed, france has been facing a social protest for several weeks now, which is rare enough to be highlighted. salaried workers, pensioners, anonymous people who are tightening their belts to close the month have come together to make themselves heard. the reason for their anger is simple: the president of the republic and his fiscal policy, which favours the increase of taxes and fees to a decrease in public spending, was a miscalculation. this social grumbling and this middle-class exasperation, i understand them and let me tell you that they have nothing to do with the problems of energy transition. however, while i support the peaceful demonstration, i do not tolerate the violence that has raged for several consecutive weekends in paris and the provinces, and i want to thank the police and gendarmerie for their exceptional mobilization. after weeks of complete silence, emmanuel macron intervened on monday to try to give pledges to stop a protest he himself had generated, but the president was too late and, although the concessions are interesting, even if not all of them, they cost 10 billion euros. who's going to pay for it? we can't make promises on credit. emmanuel macron has divided the french people instead of uniting them. it is our duty today to make the opposite move: let us not allow france to fracture, because this silent majority, this working france, deserves our full attention.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, at this painful moment for all of us, i would like to return to the main issue at hand at the moment: the issue of just transition. what do the yellow vests tell us? the yellow vests tell us politicians: reinvest in the meaning of politics, do not limit politics to the simple economy, to simple growth, to simple gross domestic product. they tell us: take care of your function, that of organizing living together, that of making society together. they think that this is the just transition, it's the shift from one model of development to another model of development for a more just planet, but not just for a few, a more just planet for the many. stop pitting economic, social and environmental issues against each other and take as a new political matrix a combination of these elements in the light of the sustainable development goals, which were voted in 2015 at the united nations. this is certainly the new development model. for 40 years, madam president, the neoliberal model has been developing here and elsewhere in the world. what is the result? an unfair concentration of wealth, the growing poverty of the majority, worrisome human health, the destruction of biodiversity and unprecedented global warming. yes, we must act, but we must act urgently and globally in the interests of the greatest number. this is the concept of just transition that we are dealing with at the moment.
for the gue/ngl group madam president, i would like to start by saying that today we are all thinking of the people of strasbourg, the victims and their families. for the past month, the yellow vests have been an unprecedented social mobilization, calling for unprecedented responses. the trigger was the increase in a tax on diesel, but the cause is much deeper: a massive transfer of wealth to the country's wealthiest, which has been exponentially strengthened since the election of emmanuel macron, his choice of the "top of the queue" and the social contempt they display. this is particularly true in rural areas, where inequalities exist in transport, access to care and education, and where employment is poor. the enemy is therefore not climate policy but neoliberalism, starting with these 100 companies responsible for 71% of global greenhouse gas emissions. if there are punitive measures, they should be applied first to them. according to the latest ipcc report, we have just 12 years to reduce these emissions, and produce an ambitious climate policy and social justice. the international labour organisation, for example, estimates that a rapid transition to clean energy could create 18 million additional jobs worldwide by 2030. there is no shortage of proposals: taxing the 10 billion annual profits of oil companies, taxing jet fuel and heavy fuel oil from container ships, allocating all environmental taxes to the ecological transition, mobilising bank credit up to the european central bank, developing a real tax system. on december 14th, i wanted to add, i will be at the day of action in france, alongside the yellow vests and the trade unionists.
on behalf of the enf group. madam president, i would like to say first of all that my thoughts today are with the victims and their families of the islamist attack which caused mourning in strasbourg last night. the debate today calls for a major refocus: citizens and workers are as aware as we are of the need to protect our environment. no one wants to jeopardise the future of their children and future generations. you talk about ecological transition and environmental protection to avoid global warming, but to make this approach sincere, it would have been more honest to denounce, for example, the free trade agreements that are constantly being negotiated with everyone by a european commission more concerned with the future of free trade than with the future of the planet. a supertanker sailing the seas of the world pollutes more than 50 million cars a year - the equivalent of the number of cars in france. challenging the absurd economic model of globalisation would be the first truly ecological step. the opposite of punitive ecology, which is just taxing taxpayers a little more and making them feel guilty with permanent moral lessons. the healthy anger of the honest people who are marching in the streets of paris and france today with yellow vests on their backs may soon explode in your face.
madam president, when i see this title, for the involvement of workers and citizens for a sustainable planet, i think we have a good example in france, where the taxation of fuel has triggered a popular insurrection known as the yellow vests. make no mistake, this is a real social movement. a survey by le monde showed that more than half of the workforce were employees and workers. and what do they ask? they express a desire for social and fiscal justice for the losers of globalization, a desire for the people to be heard in the face of the elites' perceived contempt. so, more democracy, more participatory and direct democracy. this must nevertheless make us question the europe we want to build, because there is still fiscal and social harmonization for an ecological and solidary transition of the continent. it is often the european union that is rejected in its neoliberal logic of deregulation and deregulation. so it is imperative that tax and environmental justice become our new credo if we are to succeed and if we are to engage citizens and workers.
madam president, first of all, of course, i have very warm thoughts for all the victims of the attacks. our century faces an unprecedented challenge: adapting to a natural climate cycle of warming after a small ice age, but also wasting 200 years of globalisation, blind and uncontrolled industrialisation. this was done with no respect for man or his environment. today there is action to be taken and a price to be paid, but it is not the burden of the citizens who are being pushed and impoverished to pay for all these excesses. it's for those big companies, which are job creators, but whose goal is to make unbridled profits and who are all tax-domiciled in the cloud. it is ridiculous to talk about the energy transition when we put the plow before the oxen. the unsustainable targets and the constraints of the emergency are both new sources of poverty, that is what the yellow vests tell us. let's start by also sharing energy storage technology, sustainable power grids, especially in africa - this will clearly limit immigration and the import of blind terrorists. let us give everyone energy that allows them to have affordable housing and transportation and not a luxury that means that if you heat up, you no longer have to pay rent. it's been going on for so long, it's the street that's been telling us. let's finally be responsible, let's listen to our fellow citizens and not to the cenacles... (the president withdrew the floor)
madam president, ladies and gentlemen, on this day of mourning in strasbourg and in europe, our thoughts are with the victims and their families, and our thanks to the police and the health services. we must continue our mission. we are at a turning point in the future of the european union and the just transition must be the new guiding principle for the future of the european project. working for a just transition means designing an ecological transition in all its dimensions: social, fiscal, economic and environmental. what is happening in france shows us that there will be no ecological transition without social justice. the transition to cleaner mobility can only happen if it is not against the working classes. we must accompany rather than punish, we must redistribute rather than tax blindly. the people who are protesting are not against the ecological transition, they are not against the climate goals we have adopted, but they are against the social injustice that results from liberal policies that undermine the acceptability of the ecological transition. nor will there be an ecological transition without fiscal justice. it is a strong and clear message sent by the citizens, that the big multinationals must pay their taxes, they ask neither more nor less. it is an absolute necessity and we must take responsibility for making it a reality.
the debate is closed. the competent authority shall inform the applicant of the reasons for the refusal.
the agenda calls for the joint discussion of:- the report by paul tang, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive on the common system of taxation of digital services applicable to revenues from the provision of certain digital services (com (((2018) 0148 c8-0137/2018 2018/0073 ((cns)) (a8-0428/2018), and- the report by dariusz rosati, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, on the proposal for a council directive laying down the rules for the taxation of companies with a significant digital presence (com (((2018) 0147 c8-0138/2018 2018/0072 ((cns)) (a8-0264/2018).
for the greens/efa group mr president, how much longer will citizens have to wait before europe stops tax evasion and google and amazon pay their fair share of taxes? as the feeling of fiscal injustice reaches its peak, the lack of action is unbearable. but there are solutions. for years i have been fighting for the adoption of a uniform taxation of multinationals, a real revolution to stop the tax haemorrhage. they tell me that nothing can be done because of unanimity. but it is not inevitable that a few states should be held hostage to the general interest. the people behind this argument are the useful idiots of those who engage in tax evasion. because with political courage, it is possible to circumvent unanimity without changing the treaties. article 116 allows for a majority in cases of distortion of competition. mr juncker and mr moscovici, what are you waiting for? the credibility of the european union in this fight is in your hands. when digital giants pay less than 10% of their taxes, compared to 23% for traditional companies, when some states unduly recover tax revenues from neighbouring states, there is distortion of competition. in its desire to achieve unanimity at any cost, europe is making a fool of itself.
mr president, the giants of the net, the gafa as they are called, are also giants of market capitalisation and aggressive tax optimisation. all companies should pay their fair share of tax in the countries where they make profits. the dematerialization of their activities therefore requires a new definition of the territoriality of the tax, whatever name is given to it. we must get rid of a definition of the stable establishment which is now totally outdated and inadequate. to overcome the deadlock, my colleagues - at least some of them - are calling for the end of unanimity in the council. i think the problem is the other way round: it is the expectation of a hypothetical european text that holds back the adoption of national laws. the european union is an obstacle here. the european tax havens, including the home country of the president of the commission, will do everything in their power to kill or distort the text. it is on the right track, if i believe the franco-german compromise is on the table. italy and the united kingdom did not wait and adopted their own legislation. the others, and france in particular, should do so quickly. i would also like to add that all the policies that have been pursued so far, particularly by the majority of this parliament, have helped to create captive taxpayers - ordinary citizens, small and mediumsized enterprises, in particular - on whom taxes have been piling up to the point of becoming unbearable. you also have your share of responsibility in the ongoing tax revolt... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the tax haemorrhage of multinationals is an economic crime against nations. the shortfall in tax revenue for france has been €100 billion per year for the past ten years. this tax theft is greater than the annual budget deficit of france. this public money which does not go into the state coffers must be compensated by the bosses of small and medium-sized enterprises and the middle and popular classes. the rules of the european union are directly responsible for the tax evasion of multinationals. before the free movement of capital and the harmonisation of company law, this problem did not exist. and the absurdity of voting unanimously on tax matters allows rogue states like luxembourg and ireland to hack into the public finances of their european neighbours, with the complicity of the european commission and its president. for all these reasons, as a euro-reformist patriot, i am strongly in favour of the move to qualified majority voting in the council on taxation matters. against this impotence of the european union, it is imperative for our european countries to impose the digital giants as a matter of urgency, by means of a tax on the turnover of multinationals such as the tax on digital services. we must free our citizens from the unjust tax burden that strangles them... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, with the european elections approaching, a wave of panic is sweeping the europeanists. our euro-beat governments promised a social europe; the european parliament has been a key player in the process of european integration, and it is the european parliament that is the main actor in the process of european integration. they promised us a europe that protects; we are experiencing an unprecedented migration invasion and commissioner avramopoulos has gone to sign the marrakesh pact. they promised a europe of defence; our armies are subject to nato. and now we are promised fiscal europe, but once again the european machine has caught a cold. germany fears retaliation against its car industry, ireland fears the loss of its digital attractiveness. minister bruno le maire has learned this the hard way and the mountain will give birth to a mouse, despite the good intentions contained in the reports we are discussing. once again, the european union has shown its impotence on a major issue. while gafas are reaping insane profits that escape decent taxation, making a handful of billionaires happy, the yellow vests have no choice but to scream their anger at the tax injustices they are victims of.
mr president, today i am torn between dismay and anger over the taxation of digital businesses. to put an end to the massive tax evasion by the digital giants, two approaches were possible. the first is to address the problem at its root. using the instrument already on the table, the proposal to harmonise the taxation of profits of companies in all sectors in all member states, and to this commission proposal, parliament had added the concrete way of taxing digital multinationals. if your country, commissioner, and my country had made this text their top priority, no other member state would have been politically able to oppose it. unfortunately, the second approach was chosen: the invention of a provisional indirect tax at a ridiculous rate. we were told that this solution would have the advantage of being simpler and quicker to adopt. a year later, the project is stuck. and the worst part is that the window of opportunity that was opened by luxleaks and other scandals is closing. our fellow citizens do not like taxes, we realise this in all countries, but no subject is as popular in europe as the taxation of multinationals and, excuse my cynicism, particularly american and chinese multinationals. this opportunity has been lost, and we all risk paying dearly for it in the next elections.
mr president, commissioner, by voting on the two reports on the taxation of large companies in the digital sector, the european parliament is taking stock of the challenge we have to face. we know that digital companies are undertaxed, our citizens know that too. the commission's figures speak for themselves: 9.5% of corporate taxes last year, compared with the european average of 23%. multinational companies in particular avoid taxation by locating their headquarters where taxation is least demanding. as these large companies have a global strategy, we must develop a global strategy for taxation. this is what we propose and this is what citizens ask us when they speak out; i invite you all to look at how many of them were brought to sign the online petition of avaaz. the result is impressive. so when member states hide behind each other's difficulties, they do not listen enough to the noise that is being made in our member states. the commission has proposed a rapid response to these expectations, with a tax on digital services. mr. lamassoure thinks it's unrealistic because it's modest. it was a possible initiative, and this european parliament, in any case, played its part in making it credible, including by widening the field, even though some in this house thought that only half the field should be covered and amazon and apple or netflix left out of the field. we hope that this can be changed in due course. finally, the commission's rate was indeed modest, 3%. we are offering you, mr lamassoure, if you think this proposal is too modest, the opportunity to vote with us tomorrow on the amendment to raise the rate to 5%. meanwhile, in the council, under the ill-advised influence of the franco-german compromise, we see that nothing is moving forward and we think this is a serious mistake. we believe that the council's withdrawal... the president shall withdraw the floor.
mr president, revolts and revolutions are often born of indignation at the painful spectacle of fiscal injustice. we in france know something of this, since the movement of the yellow vests is currently a testimony to this acute feeling of fiscal inequality and the mobilizations that this arouses. but if there is a scandal in the world today, it is the total impunity enjoyed by multinationals which pay almost no taxes, are champions of tax evasion or tax evasion and this threatens our social pact. i'm adding an argument to our discussion, which is that we're all algorithms, we work for the gafa, we work for the gafa for free because they use our data to make money and to make a profit. obviously, it is time to act, it is urgent to act, and when i see the cowardice of some member states, the hypocrisy, the slowness, the immobility of the processes, i say to myself that we are definitely not living up to the aspirations of our fellow citizens, so we must move fast, we must move strong.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, the czech prime minister, andrej babiš, is accused of a conflict of interest by the european union. he owns a group of companies specialising in agri-food, chemicals and media, and is alleged to have paid his companies around €100 million of eu funds allocated to the czech republic. this accusation is very suspicious. i have several reasons to believe that it is dictated by a desire for political persecution. as a savvy businessman, mr babiš knows the world of finance and business, and is therefore well placed to describe the euro as a bankrupt currency. this assessment is all the more a camouflage for the european union as it leads to the czech republic's refusal to join the euro area. more seriously, in the eyes of the brussels commission, on 27 june 2018, mr babiš made the fight against illegal migration the priority of his government. to president macron, who reproached him for this, he replied, i quote: 'no one will dictate to us who will live and work in our country.' we know that for jean-claude juncker, angela merkel and emmanuel macron, refusing immigration is an unforgivable sin. as if all this were not enough, mr babiš has finally got the audacity to define himself as a populist. the international press calls him the czech trump and his party, called "the action of dissatisfied citizens", evokes a desire to revolt against the pseudo-elites that makes one think irresistibly of the french yellow vest movement. it is for all these reasons that i accuse the european union of wanting to persecute mr babiš and the czech republic. instead of trying to lecture the world, the union should instead question its own practices and ask itself, for example, why it has put a man, jean-claude juncker, at the head of the brussels commission, who has illegally deprived several european states of billions of euros in tax revenues for the benefit of his country, luxembourg.
mr president, the added value of the european union is not always visible to our citizens. however, there is one achievement of this mandate that we can look forward to: the creation of a european public prosecutor's office to protect the financial interests of the union. unfortunately, we'll have to wait until 2020 to see it work. i say unfortunately because the conclusions of the commission's legal services on the conflict of interest of the czech prime minister could have been followed by an independent investigation by the european public prosecutor's office, in order to find out precisely how the subsidies in question were allocated and spent. by diverting european funds from their primary purpose, mr babiš is not only depriving his country of essential funding, he is playing a game with all european citizens. pending the implementation of the european public prosecutor's office, it is therefore up to the czech authorities to conduct an independent investigation, this is the only way to recover this money and the trust of the citizens. it is a question of credibility, it is also a question of democracy.
mr president, the severity of the balkan winter cannot hide a reality which is now so undeniable that even the coordinator of the international organisation for migration in sarajevo reluctantly admitted it, namely that 85% of the pseudo-refugees stationed in bosnia-herzegovina are in fact economic migrants, demonstrating that, in the face of this flood of migration, denial is no longer even a recipe. the new balkan route is largely successful: three quarters of migrants passing through bosnia and herzegovina would be able to leave, free to wander as they wish in europe. the vast majority of them will never be deported. whose fault is it? the european union, of course. we are happy to pour millions into the danaid barrel of the migrant crisis, when in reality the only people we should be supporting are the croatian security forces and the serbs of bosnia and herzegovina, represented by milorad dodik, who are fighting bravely against a real overwhelm to which all seem to have now capitulated.
mr president, i take this opportunity to speak on a subject which is very close to my heart. i would like to say first of all that i understand the condemnation, especially for human rights, but i would like to remind you that we must not apply double standards. i also think of the persecuted christians in china, turkey, algeria and many other countries. so we must be careful to avoid double standards. on the other hand, i would like to add that iran is a great civilization, which has been attacked many times, beyond the regime of the mullahs. i can even understand, because it was the policy of my country, france, that iran wanted to have nuclear power, because that is how france was able to maintain its independence, its neutrality, its sovereignty. i also understand very well the policy of israel and the united states and, as a friend of israel, i obviously support it as well. it is time for europe to really play this balance between the different powers.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, no less than seven rapporteurs have just spoken out against egypt, and yet marshal al-sissi is a bulwark against islamism. he came to power in 2013 by overthrowing islamist president mohamed morsi, who was on the verge of leading egypt into chaos. in 2014, the egyptian people legitimized his action by electing him president of the republic. since then, it has been fighting islamist terrorism relentlessly, both ideologically and militarily. he thus boldly affirms the need to renew islam in order to combat the most obscurantist tendencies of this religion. that is why the european union should support marshal al-sissi instead of blaming him for this or that human rights violation, because if his regime were to collapse, it is a country of 92 million inhabitants, egypt, that would risk turning to islamism and lending a hand to terrorism. the tragedy we have just experienced in strasbourg should encourage the european parliament to be more realistic. our mission is to protect europeans, not to lecture our partners.
mr president, the islamist attack in france that took place in strasbourg on tuesday should teach us that in politics we must choose between friends and enemies. it's the identification of the enemy that transforms a politician into a statesman, like winston churchill. marshal al-sissi in egypt understands the danger of islamism and the muslim brotherhood. his speech at al-azhar university in cairo in 2015 was the declaration, before the highest authority of sunni islam, that islamist extremism also finds its roots in an interpretation of islam itself. president al-sissi, a muslim, is currently seeking to have the muslim brotherhood listed as a terrorist organization. the hostile resolutions tabled against egypt by the liberal, socialist and communist groups in this chamber do not explain the context of its difficult action. do you think, ladies and gentlemen, that radical islam respects human rights better? in the face of the camp that has chosen to make war on us, you have chosen, in the words of churchill, dishonor and you will have war, with civil war, also in our country, because islamism is in our country.
mr president, since john magufuli came to power in 2015, the situation in tanzania has been deteriorating, and this has been particularly true since the beginning of the year. journalists, bloggers, political opponents, human rights defenders can be arrested at any time, or even murdered. on 22 february, mr godfrey luena, a member of parliament for the main opposition party, was machete-wielded to death outside his home. six television stations, two radio stations have been suspended. in march, a new communications law made any online radio or tv antenna subject to a license and a 900 euro tax, an exorbitant sum for the country. any content that causes annoyance or leads to public disorder can now be removed via a new law on cybercrime. homosexuality is punishable by 30 years to life in prison, and the dar es salaam regional commissioner has threatened to round up all suspected homosexuals for anal testing and conversion therapy. girls are subjected to sexual violence and forced marriages and are excluded from school if they become pregnant. however, tourism is growing, especially in the beautiful serengeti region. this could be a boon if land controls for speculative purposes did not exacerbate tensions in the region to the detriment, in particular, of the maasai people. it seems that tingatinga, the "bulldozer", as the president is nicknamed, is now destroying much more than it is building.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i shall be very brief and extremely brief. not only must we support what mr lamberts has just said, but i would also like to point out that, despite all the usual practices, in an interinstitutional trilogue where no lobby has anything to do, three weeks ago, after the vote in plenary on the copyright text, just three weeks ago, youtube, google and a few others were in this room of the european parliament, in the european parliament restaurant, at the request of the rapporteur, which is not a glorious thing, either for his group or for himself, to try to make us change our positions. mr president, would you like to have it recorded in the minutes that we are asking that, as from the vote in plenary, lobbying be totally, or almost totally, banned in the interinstitutional phases?
mr president, after tafta, after ceta, jefta is joining the long list of free trade agreements that are bad for workers, bad for our health and bad for the planet. you make great speeches about fighting climate change, but that doesn't stop you from voting for the most deadly climate agreement ever. you make great speeches about biodiversity, but that doesn't stop you from slaughtering whales. you make great speeches about social europe, but this agreement will level workers' rights from the bottom up. and you make great speeches, always, about democracy, but you have accepted that national parliaments have no say. that is why i voted against this agreement which makes the choice of the multinationals over that of the citizens.
in writing. rare diseases, which are not so rare, affecting 30 million europeans, remain the poor relative of research. progress is certainly undeniable: the concerted action of europeans, notably through the orphanet database, should be welcomed. private research is also being mobilized more than ever before, not to mention the promise of gene therapy. however, the challenges are considerable: le figaro noted that two thirds of the 30 000 children who come to the institute of genetic diseases have still not been diagnosed. many of them (35%) will die before the age of one, even though the average time to diagnosis is four years. this is a real crossroads for patients and their families, who often have to cope alone with the diagnostic error and, in general, with a considerable emotional and material burden. it is urgent to continue our efforts to promote european research, particularly through programmes such as e-rare, as joint action seems particularly appropriate in this case.
