mr president, wednesday’s votes are an important opportunity to put europe at the forefront of the fight against climate change and the fight against energy poverty. friends of the earth has estimated that 125 million europeans live in energy poverty, and we know that energy poverty disproportionately affects our most vulnerable people. our poorest live in the leakiest houses: single-parent households, older people, the long-term sick and children. three out of four buildings in europe are energy-inefficient, and account for 36% of our emissions. it is vital that we set a binding energy-efficiency target of 40%. for every 1% target increase, three million homes can be renovated and seven million people lifted out of energy poverty. forty per cent – not 35 – is 35 million extra people. on 29 january 2017, we launched the european energy poverty observatory. energy efficiency is the first fuel, and with the 40% binding energy efficiency target and greater ambition on renewables we can lift people out of energy poverty. we can tackle climate change and halve our emissions and have cleaner air. we can put energy efficiency as the driver of jobs and growth. i call on every group to vote for the strongest possible measures for clean energy for the benefit of all our citizens, especially our energy poor. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you, and thank you very much to our colleagues in gue for their support of energy poverty throughout this file. we worked our hardest in terms of the definition of energy poverty. i say to the commissioner that i know it is one of the first tasks of the energy poverty observatory to make sure that we adopt a definition of energy poverty that can be adopted throughout eu member states. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, in terms of the energy governance file we have deliberately included local energy communities and the rental market. it is absolutely essential in this legislation that not just private households are covered, but that we actually reach our poorest people in social housing and rented homes.
mr president, all reports on the clean energy plan seem to be focused on two sole objectives, decarbonising europe’s economy and fighting climate change. the rapporteurs propose to decarbonise the economy by 2050 by building a new eu legal framework that would achieve the objectives of the paris agreement. we all know it is a pure illusion to believe that these objectives will help europe’s energy independence by enhancing energy security and energy supply whilst increasing job opportunities. in fact, intermittent renewable energy sources, such as wind power, are unreliable: they create temporary green jobs. indeed, a study by the spanish professor gabriel calzada, of juan carlos university, shows that every green job created costs 2.2 real jobs in the real economy. this happens by diverting resources from efficient industries into highly inefficient green projects and by raising the cost of electricity for the rest of the economy. many of the green jobs were temporary and in almost every case, the subsidy necessary to create a green job exceeded the annual salary. independence and freedom from absurd targets will allow britain to rejoin the world and help protect the environment sensibly.
in writing. – the renewable energy directive achieves its aim of establishing a strong framework for enshrining the paris agreement in eu law. we must keep the promises we made in paris on carbon emissions, energy efficiency and renewable energy. we must shoulder the responsibility to fight for future generations. so much remains unfinished. we knew that we would not solve all of our challenges in one year or one lifetime. if we are to achieve the goals we have set out to achieve, then we must collaborate with everyone at all levels. all across wales, communities have developed innovative solutions for energy-efficient homes, and to reduce fuel poverty. now we have an opportunity to show the rest of europe what we have achieved. in order to achieve our high ambitions, we must come together. now is the time for unity.
blue-card question. – i’d like to ask mr van dalen about the 5% figure quoted by the commission. i understand that the dutch fishing vessels have now got this up to 28%. do you think this is playing cricket or do you think this is playing by eu rules?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, if the stated aims of the common fisheries policy are to ensure that fishing and aquaculture activities are environmentally and economically sustainable, then why are we proposing to relax the rules on electro-pulse fishing? electro-pulse is a technique that is blamed for breaking the backs of cod, eradicating molluscs and gastropods, causing internal bleeding and leaving the marine environment a dessert. already banned in china and other parts of the world for being too damaging to the ecology, electro-pulse fishing must now also be outlawed, as per the 1990 eu ban on fishing with electricity, explosives and poisons. in recent weeks we’ve seen a lot of propaganda outlining the supposed environmental credentials of electro-pulse fishing, but the fact is that little independent non-partisan science has been completed. in the 13 studies conducted since electro-pulse was allowed, only three have looked at the effects on the marine environment. these three studies showed that 50% to 70% of the large cod caught with electricity had their spine broken and internal haemorrhages, that the survival rate of undersize discarded fish is very small, and that electrical currents may result in a weakened immune system for invertebrates. as for the claim that electro-pulse fishing is better for the sea bed, this is also a fallacy. rather than gliding about the sea bed, pulse trawls are heavy rigs that penetrate the sediment by 6 cm with electrodes blasting 50 volts of electricity of an intensity of 60 amps killing everything in their path. the fact is, other than a small reduction in overall fuel usage there is no environmental benefit. yet there is growing empirical and anecdotal evidence that electro-pulse fishing is doing catastrophic damage to europe’s marine environment, fishes and fishing communities. so i urge you, if you put the marine environment above profit and care about the economic and social benefit of … (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, the stated aim of the macro-regional strategy is to provide a platform for transnational cooperation between member states, as well as with third countries. the north sea and the north atlantic area has not needed a macro-regional strategy, because it has had a thing called the european union. regrettably, that is likely to change. despite the united kingdom’s intended departure, issues will remain: environmental, transport, ireland, and – as we saw in the debate earlier this evening – issues related to marine communities. a regional forum of some description, such as a macro-regional strategy, would be particularly helpful in ensuring that the united kingdom doesn’t disengage and the problems don’t get worse.
madam president, as a feminist i am very happy about this report because it underlines the gender aspects of climate change, and encourages the commission and the member states to take them into account. i am happy to see that the report highlights the fact that women are indeed more affected by climate change than men, especially when it comes to displacement. more than 50% of the current refugee and migration flow comprises women and children and many of them are climate refugees. women are highly dependent on natural resources, particularly in rural areas, and play a significant role ensuring food security for their communities. i remember visiting a flooded community in malawi with care international 18 months ago, and it was the women who were rebuilding that community. so i would also like to underline that involving women in decision-making on climate change is absolutely necessary if we are to find efficient solutions. putting women in charge is more than a diversity concern: it is about having better policies for everyone.
madam president, the schengen area is the embodiment of the principle of freedom of movement in the european union. around a million united kingdom citizens live outside of the uk, mostly in that area. these are people who have chosen to make their lives in the european union, and it is a life choice that is about a great deal more than work. these uk citizens have been badly let down by the lame agreement that the united kingdom government has negotiated for their futures. while european union citizens in the uk will enjoy their continued freedom of movement rights, uk citizens in the schengen area will see their rights severely limited. ironically, these are the uk citizens most likely to be young, least likely to have the five years’ residential qualification, and most likely to identify themselves as european. so to mr barnier, i would say look on them favourably—and to the uk government, i would say work harder.
madam president, i would like to call this house’s attention to the british government’s terrible handling of the carillion crisis. carillion, one of the uk government’s biggest private contractors, based in my constituency, has collapsed today threatening the jobs and pensions of more than 43 000 employees. despite three warnings last year, the government still decided to award two billion of new contracts to this organisation. over the last 16 years, the company continued to pay increases to its shareholders. unfortunately smes and other suppliers and the uk taxpayer, were not so fortunate. this reminds me not just of the enron crisis but also of the last financial crisis, an example of where profits were privatised and the losses nationalised. therefore, across europe, privatisation of key public services has to be reconsidered. for now, we must prioritise securing the jobs and pensions of the carillion workers affected in my constituency and elsewhere.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, happy new year! as we begin 2018, i am sure most of us were pleased to see that we ended 2017 on a positive note by agreeing to move forward with negotiations on the new eu-uk relationship. but as other speakers have said before me, the next stage won’t necessarily be any easier than the first. these are tough negotiations in tough times, and there will probably be moments when it feels as though the two sides are far apart, incapable of understanding each other. but the reason that these negotiations are tough is because first of all, negotiation by their very nature ought to be tough, and secondly, because both sides care about the outcome, on opposite sides of the table, but united by one simple goal: the desire to get the best possible result for citizens. the uk and the eu will remain friends and allies, but we believe that the future is best secured through different approaches. the journey we are on is uncharted, but the ecr group hopes and believes that we can achieve a deal to the benefit of all sides. and while the uk asks for a bespoke deal, eu negotiators ask: which template? but we all know that while one specific trade deal may act as a template for others, no two trade deals are exactly alike. after all, the canada-eu agreements were bespoke in themselves. so whether you call for proposals for the eu-uk deal to be bespoke, or canada+++ or some other variation, it is clear that the uk wants to be good neighbours. however, the uk needs to understand that whilst eu leaders on the whole want as beneficial a deal as possible, they do not want to make it so attractive that other countries are tempted to follow the uk out of the door. but voters, citizens and workers don’t care about legal protocols or legal technicalities, they don’t sit at home hoping that the uk is made an example of. they simply want both sides to sort it out. they don’t want more uncertainty, more grandstanding or more treading over old ground from either side. they want to keep making a living, keep selling their products, keep their jobs, keep travelling and keep safe. so quite simply, the eu needs to decide: is this a deal for the european peoples, or is it a deal for the european project? the ecr group believes that this question is not limited to just brexit, but a very fundamental question about the very future of the eu. is the eu serving the needs of its peoples? is the eu offering workable solutions to the core challenges its member states face, such as migration and others? could the eu do less, but do it better? and while there will be those who call for evermore european integration and evermore harmonisation once the uk departs, the european conservative and reformist group will continue to be a voice for those who want to see an eu that respects its member states, an eu that provides value for money, and an eu that is outward looking, signing trade agreements not only with the uk, but with countries across the world.
, blue-card question. – if financial services are not involved in this deal, then there would seem to me to be very little point in actually having a deal, because you sell more to us than we buy from you. it does not seem to us to be a good idea. surely, would britain not be better off leaving on world trade organisation terms? that would seem to be a good idea. i believe the reason that digby jones of the confederation of british industry (cbi), previously director-general, came out looking grim – as did mr farage – was that he fully realised mr barnier’s purpose was simply to destroy britain as a financial unit in the future. it is all about nobbling our ability. if we accept any deal, then [...] (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question. – mr brok, from what you have just said, it sounds very much to me as though you have no interest whatsoever, and nor does mr barnier. this is what i said earlier when they had a meeting with various people: there is no interest in doing business for the city of london. therefore, britain would be better off leaving without any agreement whatsoever, on world trade organisation terms. no matter how much damage this might do to europe, it seems to me that mr barnier is not interested in the damage it does to the people of europe. he is more interested in punishing us for doing something to ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the brexit debate is still overshadowed by a complete lack of clarity as to what the uk government actually wants to achieve. deep divisions in the uk government are clear for all to see. approaching two years after the referendum, they have still not settled on what they want as a final destination in this process. at the same time, british public opinion has not rallied behind the referendum results, as one might have expected. if anything, it has shifted slightly the other way. there are still significant doubts. nigel farage himself admitted last week that this issue is not a settled issue in british politics. so in that context, many in britain will have noted and appreciated the comments made by the president of the european council just now, when he said that if britain had a change of heart the door would still be open. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – you are right that there are many ‘ifs’ in that process. but i think the lesson we have learned from the statements made today by president tusk and, indeed, president juncker, is that the door is still open, from the european side, right up to 29 march, or whatever date is scheduled in the end, for britain to leave the european union. that means that, if the debates in britain were to conclude that britain should reconsider, there is no obstacle from the european side to that happening. that is an important element to enrich the debates in my country about what best to do, as we face a situation which is far more complex, far more costly, and far more difficult than we were told at the time of the referendum.
mr president, there have been lots of important exchanges about trade deals with britain post-brexit, but there has been a lot less has been about equality and human rights, which are essential elements of democratic societies. the council conclusion refers to paragraphs 52 and 53 of the uk-eu joint report on phase 1 of the negotiations regarding the good friday agreement and the rights of the people in the north of ireland. many of those rights are rooted in eu law and in the charter of fundamental rights. the council and this parliament confirmed that they would uphold the good friday agreement in all its parts. ireland’s taoiseach will be here in this chamber tomorrow. if the taoiseach is going to make good on his promises to the people of the north of ireland that we will never again be left behind by an irish government – a welcome acknowledgement that we certainly have been – he must guarantee no diminution of our rights as a result of brexit. that needs to be reflected in the legal text currently being drawn up for phase 1 in order to move on to phase 2, and there must be no ambiguity. the denial of rights in ireland was wrong in 1968, which marked the start of the civil rights campaign and an awful conflict, and it would be wrong 50 years on, in this year of 2018.
mr president, the joint report agreed with brussels in december was an important step forward in agreement on the terms of the uk’s exit from the european union. across the united kingdom there is an acceptance that the integrity of our precious union and of our economy is better protected as a result of democratic unionist party input into the text. we will continue to act in the national interest. an implementation period and trade talks should now go ahead as quickly as possible. finally, can i say that my constituency, my home, northern ireland, is not a bargaining chip? as we have seen over the last few days, whether it be in west tyrone or delivered by a european union president in dublin, careless talk or calculated soundbites can have harmful consequences for political stability in northern ireland. i say to presidents tusk and juncker: your understanding of this would be greatly improved by talking to northern ireland’s political leaders.
mr president, we have just heard five speeches which were not points of order. why are you allowing them? we have all got political speeches we would like to make. these were not points of order.
mr president, this is going to be a very long vote. i am looking around and i can see the problems that you have got: a lot of colleagues are not putting up their hands. would it not be quicker to just do an electronic vote on this?
mr president, economists are familiar with what they call spontaneous order, the way in which structures will form without supervision from above. it is a counterintuitive, difficult prospect. you would think that planning something would be much better than letting it evolve higgledy—piggledy, but it works. it is why the cold war did not go the other way, and it is certainly true in the field of fisheries. the european union has an extremely top—down, controlled approach to fisheries. stocks are treated as a common resource, and defined as such in the treaty, to which all member states have equal access. this is very different from the policies of iceland or new zealand or the falkland islands where skippers are incentivised to take ownership of quota and where effectively the system is privatised. we can see which one has led to flourishing fish stocks and which one has led to a collapse. not for the first time we are labouring under the fallacy that the more we intervene, the more good we do, when in fact we have half a century of evidence to the contrary.
mr president, i am proud to have used my votes today to support both the uk east coast fishing fleet and to do more to curb the so-called cetacean by—catch. this means that dolphins, whales and sea birds being entangled in fishing gear, struggling fruitlessly to free themselves, suffering serious injuries and then a horrific death suffocating under water. i also voted against the expansion of so-called pulse fishing, which is basically electrocuting fish, but parliament clothes it in the sugar-coated term ‘technical measures’. as well as being inhumane, pulse fishing also threatens the livelihoods of many fishermen, both in the uk and in france. it is clearly a step too far in the industrialisation of the seas. it prioritises profits over conservation, and as a conservative i will always err on the side of conservation. we talk a lot about european values in this place. to allow these barbaric practices to continue when we have it in our power to stop it, are not the values i subscribe to.
mr president, i voted against this proposal today because of the absolute incoherence of european union fishing policy, which has done so much damage, particularly to the united kingdom’s fishing industry and communities, but also to those of france and other countries – all member states of the european union. in particular, what made me absolutely incensed was the fact that we voted on the electro-pulse fishing technique. this should have been banned outright. it should have been regulated with additional regulations. when a country that we are normally able to criticise so hugely, china, introduces a ban, and the european union is not able to follow suit, it does bring into question what does the european union mean by the term ‘sustainability’. time after time we know that areas are devastated once electro-pulse fishing goes through, and yet we are going to allow dutch trawlermen to do that damage in the waters of the british isles and in european continental waters. that is a shameful situation.
mr president, it has been described as the marine equivalent of fracking: sending electric shocks through the oceans to make fish living on the seabed leap up to be easily caught in a trawl net, but at what cost to the ecosystems of the north sea? there are fears that the repeated electric shocks may cause long-term damage to the sediments of the seabed and harm the nervous systems and backbones of fish. for 10 years, this technique has been allowed to continue under the guise of a scientific trial, with up to 80 boats operating in the north sea. that’s not a scientific experiment, it is a commercial fishing operation. we deserve better for the waters of the east anglian coast. i am proud to have voted today for a complete ban. i am proud that this house has too.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, with just over a year gone by since the colombian peace deal was finalised, i too would like to welcome the visit of the un secretary—general antónio guterres to colombia last week as a sure sign of the international community’s commitment to the deal. implementation was never going to be easy, particularly given the splits in public opinion in colombia, as was clearly indicated by the very close result in the referendum on the initial deal. with such domestic ambivalence it is therefore all the more important that the eu shows a unified and strong voice, as one of colombia’s biggest economic partners with an fta in place, and has a strong commitment to the peace process. the launch of the eu trust fund is a positive step, with some eur 95 million already committed, but it is clear that more investment will be needed if change is to be seen quickly enough to maintain the public’s confidence in the peace process. elections later this year will see at least ten members of the farc handed seats in the congress, as anticipated by the peace deal. by all accounts, the group has stuck to its commitments of peace, but the transformation from armed terrorist group to legitimate political party will be very tough to reconcile in the short term for many. focusing on the main tenets of rural development and cocoa crop substitution will be key policy areas to see real progress happening on the ground. resolving the issue of transitional justice, impunity for crimes committed during the armed conflict and restitution of property will also be very challenging to president santos’s government. finally, we cannot ignore that the national liberation army (eln) is clearly benefiting from the deal. it is now moving back into areas previously controlled by the farc, who have disarmed. now, sadly, the ceasefire has expired and they have now resorted to unacceptable armed conflict in their attacks in recent weeks. i sincerely hope that we can all call for that to immediately cease.
mr president, parallels are often drawn between the colombian peace process and that of my own constituency, northern ireland. in both instances, innocents were tortured and disappeared. it is estimated that more than 46 000 people have been forcibly disappeared during 50 years of armed conflict and terrorism in colombia. for decades, the families of victims of the disappeared have been vocal in their ongoing struggle for acknowledgment and action, both in northern ireland and colombia. our own experience in northern ireland shows that people hurt most by such peace processes are often the victims who forever carry the legacy of murdered loved ones and the weight of injustice as terrorists walk free. it is my belief that a sustainable peace process is impossible without addressing these issues. peace is a noble and worthy aim but i would ask this institution to tread carefully. do not allow the allure of the ultimate goal to blind you to the legitimate concerns of victims nor discount the legacy of injustice they feel.
mr president, any sensible commentator will be relieved that the peace deal between farc and the colombian government is holding up. this deal hopefully addresses the previous tragic security situation in rural colombia, thus helping to allow for economic recovery in these areas. however, i once again find myself asking what additional meaningful support the eu has to offer. this deal was a great example of effective diplomacy within the latin american continent. this of course doesn’t fit with the eu’s narrative, and your incessant need to involve yourself in any possible situation backed up by the european taxpayer. mr president, if the european union has real respect for columbia, you will allow them to carry on implementing this agreement with the appropriate support of fellow latin american countries and the united nations.
mr president, i want to give my full support for the colombian peace process, particularly in light of current difficulties. i’m very worried by the situation whereby rural communities abandoned by the farc are being taken over by criminal drug traffickers rather than being supported by legitimate actors. it is undeniable that positive progress has been made, particularly regarding the disarmament of farc. however, i urge the colombian government to redouble its efforts to bring support to the most vulnerable communities in order to ensure that colombian citizens see the benefits of peace in their everyday lives. i’d also like to show my support for civil society organisations working on the ground, such as libraries for peace. this organisation provides remote demobilisation zones in colombia with a central place where people can access critical resources and fight trauma together. people-to-people initiatives such as this are vital for genuine peace processes and they also fulfil the aims of the eu’s cultural diplomacy strategy announced by the high representative herself in 2016.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, given the ongoing tensions in the region and the debate underway under president trump’s administration as to the future of the jcpoa, the wave of protests that we have now seen in iran during the last two weeks has arrived at a particularly volatile and dangerous time. judging by reports on the ground, and seeing the release in the last two days of large numbers of those detained, it does now seem as though the situation may be calming. clearly there have been horrendous breaches of human rights, with as many as 25 protesters reported dead, abuses which we must all condemn in the strongest terms, but which are tragically characteristic of that brutal theocratic regime. it is clear that the protests emanated from a mixture of economic, social and political concerns from the population at large, an analysis which even president rouhani himself has conceded. on the nuclear deal, i am conscious that for many western politicians who oppose it these protests are seen as a further justification of their position. it is, however, vital that the nuclear deal is seen as being totally separate from our general relations with iran and stand alone. the p5+1 jcpoa in geneva in 2015 was not aimed at improving the governance situation in iran, but at preventing the state from acquiring nuclear weapons. on these aims alone, it appears so far, fortunately, to be succeeding under strict iaea monitoring, and we must all hope in this house that it continues to do so in future.
madam president, the right to freedom of assembly and to peaceful protest is a fundamental right not accorded often enough across the world. however, rights are always balanced with responsibilities, and all sides must refrain from violence and damage to public and private property. these protests have once again shown the power of social media as a catalyst for protest and initiating change. the desire for change by the iranian people has been clearly expressed, and the government would be wise to take heed. however, experience has shown it would also be wise to be cautious in offering unconditional support for mass rallies, as who knows what will be waiting in the wings in iran, as everywhere.
madam president, the courageous protests that have occurred across iran over the past week should be welcomed as a manifestation of a people finally rejecting the suppression of this evil, autocratic mullah regime. the growing discontent amongst the young against costly foreign intervention, high unemployment and corruption has rightfully put pressure on the supreme leaders of iran. but the eu’s silence on iran is staggering. it was only after a full week of protests and after security forces jailed thousands, and killed at least 22, that high representative mogherini finally issued a shameful statement calling on all concerned to refrain from violence. it would appear that the eu is more interested in protecting its deeply flawed nuclear deal and the trade opportunities now that iran is going for the wto, than to tackle iran’s extreme human rights abuses. as i wrote for the times red box, iran is not our friend. the price of the nuclear deal has been the unfreezing of at least usd 100 billion of assets that are now being put to malign use right across the middle east. iranian soviet-style destabilisation is being conducted on a massive scale in iraq with their shia militias; in kirkuk they have driven out the trusted kurdish peshmerga, just as they have forced out the prime minister of lebanon; in syria, iran funds an army a quarter of a million strong; in bahrain it is undermining the rulers there with violent unrest; in gaza it is financing hamas; and it is helping the houthis firing missiles at saudi arabia; it is also working with north korea on missile technology. the west has simply been suckered by iran time and time again, but the lesson must be that if this malicious regime, this septic octopus with tentacles wrapped around the middle east, has to beg for a lifeline from us in the west to stay alive, then we must resolutely refuse.
madam president, we are currently witnessing the most serious anti-government protests in iran for a decade. at least two dozen protesters have reportedly lost their lives and nearly 4 000 have been imprisoned. the real numbers might be multiples of this. many fear a repeat of 2009 when scores of demonstrators faced torture in unofficial detention centres. meanwhile, vital communication channels and social media remain blocked. the alleged suicides of three jailed protesters underscore the importance of standing by the iranian people in defending their fundamental right to peaceful protest and protecting them against disappearances and execution. with the nuclear deal hanging in the balance due to president trump’s outrageous ultimatum, the eu now has the unprecedented leverage to use its role as guardian of the joint comprehensive plan of action to stand up for human rights in iran. i urge european leaders to withstand the pressures to sweep one issue under the rug to the benefit of the other. we need to use our leadership in the nuclear file to support the iranian people and those who are open to reform. the 2015 deal is a key eu foreign policy success that has to be defended. this is no less true for our reputation as a bulwark of fundamental rights.
madam president, it was not a blue card. i wanted catch-the-eye because i put my name down earlier. i am just trying to get your attention because many of the speakers here were male speakers and i think we need a gender balance.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, after a troubled electoral year the situation in kenya is still very tense. i visited the country three times in the 12 months from december 2016 and also received members of kenyan civil society in my office. i have developed relationships with a wide range of stakeholders, therefore, and i want to reiterate my support to the kenyan people who were so keen to engage in democratic life. when i visited kenya in my role as a european parliament election observer last august, i was struck by the enthusiasm of the citizens who turned out in huge numbers, waiting patiently in line in the cold and in the dark, including many women with babies on their backs, waiting for hours for the polling stations to open so that they could cast their votes. we do not often see such enthusiasm in europe, so the kenyans have much to teach our citizens about the importance of freedom and democracy. as we know, the presidential election was subsequently cancelled by the kenyan supreme court, a brave and unparalleled decision which gave hope to many who believed the election process to be seriously flawed. this should have paved the way for better democracy and increased trust. however, the continuing intransigence of political forces has dashed the hopes of many. i know that colleagues from different political groups share my concerns about kenya’s future, especially in light of reports about the use of excessive force by the police and the serious situation of human rights defenders on the ground, including indigenous people such as the sengwer recently violently evicted from their forest homes, with two reportedly shot this very morning by the kenyan authorities. my group and i encourage all political forces in kenya to genuinely engage in constructive dialogue in order to find solutions to the deep crisis in which the country still finds itself. they owe it to the citizens and especially to those who contributed to the writing of the kenyan constitution adopted in 2010 following earlier election violence. the european union must continue to support kenyan institutions in order to increase transparency and credibility, and improve governance. the institutions, including the independent electoral and boundaries commission (iebc), must regain the trust of the kenyan people. political forces in the country, including the government, must also respect the institutions, especially the judiciary, and the election observation mission (eom) report very clearly states that the judiciary institutions have shown their independence during these difficult times, but have also come under increasing pressure from political forces. this is unacceptable and must stop. as a frequent electoral observer, i can also say that my experience has taught me that we should improve the way we observe elections, in particular with regard to recent technological innovations made to processes worldwide. electoral voting changes the way that votes are counted and transmitted, and fraud cannot be observed in the same way if votes are cast on paper or on a machine, and counted by hand or number crunched on a computer. the interference in democratic processes in the uk, the usa and in kenya by big data companies such as cambridge analytica, as reported by carole cadwalladr, amounts to a hijacking of democracy, and we must be alert to these dangers. in accordance with our socialist values my group and i support civil society organisations as an essential component of peaceful elections, and i was pleased to be invited to a recent event facilitated by the quaker movement on preventing deadlocked and violent elections in kenya and elsewhere. it is very important to ensure that women and young people are included in political processes at all levels in order to prevent conflict around elections, and this can only be efficient if done through civil society organisations working at a grassroots level. the shrinking space of civil society is extremely concerning in this regard, and not only in kenya. so as a member of the eom i want to highlight and support the work of marietje schaake as chief observer. i stand by ms schaake’s final report and conclusions and support its recommendations. it is important that all parties involved understand we must remain critical friends.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, 2017 was indeed a very difficult year for kenya. as democrats in this house, we all feel a profound sense of sadness when we observe elections that are flawed, and reading the reports from amnesty international, human rights watch and our own eu election observation mission, this seems to have been the case for both elections in kenya last year. it was hoped that the historic ruling of the supreme court last september calling for fresh presidential elections would have made way for a new and fairer poll. however, evidence shows that, on the contrary, independent institutions were attacked by political leaders, the police again used disproportionate force and the independence of the judiciary and the electoral commission were still put into question. it is particularly worrying that the supreme court was unable to hear a case seeking postponement of polling the day before the fresh election was due to take place, due to the lack of a quorum of judges. was pressure applied on the judges not to turn up on the day? it is also deeply regrettable that opposition candidate raila odinga felt he had no choice but to withdraw as a candidate. where does kenya go from here? the weight of responsibility now clearly lies on the shoulders of the jubilee party and president kenyatta. the world will be watching closely. it is a testament to the courage and resilience of the kenyan people that their country has not descended into civil war, frankly. kenya must now come together again to uphold the rule of law and fundamental freedoms that are indispensable to a flourishing, democratic modern nation. the eu and the african union must fully support kenya in all these aspirations.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the present reaction to the situation in kenya is worrying. kenya should be seen as a keystone of democracy in the continent. africa and its partners across the world rely on kenya to lead the way regarding elections and democracy. i have a strong belief that kenya’s democratic institutions can and do work and must be supported and strengthened. the democracy of kenya is crucial, not only for kenya, but for the whole of africa and for africa’s relationships with the wider world. a strong and free kenya brings security to the horn of africa and can be an important strategic ally for us all. the european union must not destabilise kenya by simply picking one side. this helps nobody except those who wish ill to democracy. one must ask why, alone amongst international observers, the european union refuses to acknowledge that the election was comparatively free of issues. there needs to be international help for kenya to enable trust, rather than trying to kick away the foundations. in this matter, the eu is running the risk of being perceived as acting in a high-handed and a neo-colonialist manner. it needs to be understood that kenya is a pivotal country in africa and is a key partner for us all in the fight against terrorism. so let us understand that to hold kenya to a different standard than other nations is both unfair and runs the risk of alienating our true friends.
madam president, when kenyan people, including five million young people went to the ballot boxes last year, their hope was to help shape the future of their country. it is deeply disappointing that political leaders and security forces traded this for dispute and division, intimidating citizens, polling staff, civil society and the judiciary ahead of the october rerun. the result is a country bitterly divided along political and ethnic lines, at a time when the eu is looking at kenya to be the engine of growth for east africa and a partner in managing migration. we are one of the most generous providers of aid. half a billion in the current financing period for projects under the africa trust fund. our priority should be to use this as leverage to support democracy and civil society in a meaningful way, not as a tick-box exercise. we really have to ensure that recommendations made by electoral observation missions are fully implemented and are in sync with the project we are supporting there. commissioner, numerous priorities need to be addressed, but i will highlight one in particular which other colleagues have already spoken about: the horrifying and wide- spread use of sexual violence against women and girls by police and security forces. in the 2007 and 2008 electoral violence, thousands of women were raped. this was met with impunity and indifference by the kenyan government. ten years on, we are really seeing a repeat of the same atrocious crimes documented in a chilling report by human rights watch. so, my question to you commissioner is: will we make accountability for sexual violence and inclusiveness of women a priority for our relations with kenya? secondly, how do we move from this tick-box approach towards democracy-building and engaging civil society in kenya in a meaningful way? finally, how will we ensure a proper long-term follow-up of vital recommendations on these and other issues where there is significant room for improvement as far as our eoms are concerned?
mr president, the eu rightly and regularly condemns state intimidation and violence against journalists, dissidents and human rights defenders. yet, as we have heard in this debate, our member states and companies continue to provide the very tools that facilitate such harassment to the very governments that undertake such repression. the gap in our dual—use legislation has allowed this to happen. if the council accepts the excellent text we will adopt tomorrow, exports of dual—use items such as surveillance technologies will no longer be possible where they could be used for human rights violations. in this report, parliament is sending a strong signal to the council that the human rights dimension is a priority for us – i hope that it is a message that they will get – as is ensuring uniform implementation of the regulation throughout all of our member states. it is clear at the moment that all 28 are not committed to the same level of implementation of the existing regulation. i hope that will change with the new regulation. we also need countries, like france and italy in particular, to make licensing data publicly available. it is unacceptable to hide behind the shield of privacy in this area. as the departure date, sadly, for the united kingdom from the eu is approaching, i also hope that the united kingdom will equip itself with similar rules and keep up its cooperation with the european union on these matters after it leaves the european union. finally, i would like to thank the commissioner and the commission for such a good proposal and my colleagues, particularly mr buchner, who i think did an excellent job steering this legislation through parliament.
mr president, this week we will be voting to strengthen controls on the export of goods, notably cyber surveillance technology, that can be – and has been – used to abuse human rights around the world. this legislation shows how serious parliament is about trade policy. we take our responsibility to scrutinise policy proposals carefully, but it also shows that we are serious that our rhetoric about values—based trade becomes our practice. under tory plans, mps in westminster would never have such an opportunity post—brexit. parliament’s scrutiny powers under the draft trade bill amount to zilch, with trade rules drawn up entirely behind closed doors. brexit shouldn’t be used as an excuse to wind back parliamentary scrutiny. mps should have at least equal rights to those held today by our meps.
mr president, trade in general – and ftas in particular – cannot solve all the ills of the world; i fully accept that. but i strongly believe it is incumbent on those of us who are in favour of removing barriers to trade to ensure that this does not undermine human rights, labour, environmental or animal welfare standards. we have tried the light—touch approach to trade with sustainable development, but it is clear that our existing tsd model is not fit for purpose. commissioner, i welcome the fact that you are open to a review of the tsd chapter, and a clear example that our tsd model needs to be reformed is the korean fta. great in terms of economic benefit, but has completely failed in terms of reforming or even protecting existing labour standards in korea. after a labour leader was jailed in korea, we were unable to take any action, and any pressure we attempted to put on korea was completely futile. we also have panels of experts in relation to some of our key tsd chapters. how often have their reports been acted upon? as far as i can work out, on zero occasions. a more strongly and easily enforceable tsd would make it not only fairer in terms of the ftas we adopt and implement with the rest of the world, but would actually help gain political support and wider support among the general public for our free trade agenda.
mr president, the commission’s trade for all strategy calls for a trade agenda consistent with european values of high social and environmental standards and respect for human rights. how can these standards be guaranteed when there are no enforceable mechanisms to support them? as businesses seek to underpin corporate privilege through a multilateral investment court, civil society organisations must have a real input into both binding but truly enforceable chapters within trade agreements. this is also the ambition of the un-backed binding treaty on business and human rights. i urge the commission to strengthen the sustainability criteria and civil society participation in existing and future trade agreements and to support the binding treaty initiative. this will put the eu on the right side of history in terms of human rights, social standards and environmental protection in our trade agreements. citizens are waking up to the real human and environmental implications of trade, and we need the eu to uphold the highest standards in global supply chains and value chains.
mr president, there has been a marked change in the commission’s language around trade policy, with increased recognition that globalisation may have negative, as well as positive, impacts on european industry workers in some regions. trade deals set the rules of engagement, and therefore good standard—setting and civil society participation is crucial to ensure a balanced and fair environment for workers, consumers and companies. our sustainable development chapters are therefore absolutely central and of vital importance. i recognise that we learn by doing, but what we are learning from our current sustainable development chapters is that they are inadequate to address labour violations and environmental degradation in our relations with our trading partners. the eu’s approach of coaxing our trading partners to improve standards is inadequate, and we are regularly told that the only alternative is the us system of trade sanctions, which has its own flaws. but there are other alternatives. since 2014, when i was elected to this house, there have been three comprehensive reports from this house outlining an alternative – dare i say a third way? the european parliament report on the mandates for australia and new zealand show that there is cross—party consensus on the need for a stronger, more assertive and effective model chapter. eu negotiators should heed the message that we have been sending and come forward with clear, strong recommendations for coaxing and sanctions.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to welcome the prime minister. dobre doshli. whilst the bulgarian presidency begins the last full year of this parliamentary term, it will be six months which could set the parameters for the future eu—uk relationship. mr juncker, you should not take responsibility for the uk voting to leave. if responsibility lies anywhere, it is with the political class in britain who, for the last 40 years, have not been honest about the political dimension of the eu, pretending that the eu was only about trade. whilst brexit has dominated the agenda of late, the ecr group believes that the urgent must not crowd out what is important: the need for reform, fiscal responsibility and doing less, but doing it better. the ecr group hopes that the brexit negotiations will not just lead to a new eu-uk relationship, but act as a catalyst for a reformed eu. we hope the bulgarian presidency will be vocal and resolute in the face of continued russian aggression in ukraine. we hope that you will help western balkan countries on their journey of reform and, on the migration crisis, that you will ask eu countries what they can do to help – whether giving resources or taking people – rather than telling them what to do. i look forward to working with you and your team and we wish you every success in the six months ahead. blagodarya.
on behalf of the efdd group. – thank you, mr president. well, mr varadkar, you are very popular here! a standing ovation from left and centre and right; mr juncker looking joyous! in fact this european project could have no greater, stronger devotee for a militarised, expansionist united states of europe. you, of course, worked here as a young man; you’re a devotee. in fact, we should call you, i think, a european unionist – whatever the cost to ireland may be. normally, of course, small countries count for nothing here. it’s run by the big boys, but right at the minute you are important and you’re useful, because you have helped with the obstructionism and the delay of brexit. firstly, on the good friday agreement, where, as you know, the european union had little or nothing to do with it. they were written in at a later stage, but of course, as everyone knows, nothing binds either side to continued membership of the union, and you know the uk government intends to fully uphold it. the border issue has been put up as a problem, but i think your predecessor bertie ahern has said, look, in practical terms we don’t face a problem. there has been a common travel area between us, of course, for decades, but it is on trade where that border could in some ways be challenged. and of course, when you think that nearly 50% of exports from irish-owned companies go to the united kingdom and in agriculture in some sectors it’s as high as 90%, you potentially have quite a lot to lose. and yet, despite the fact that no one should be fighting harder for a genuine rounded trade deal than you, that doesn’t appear to be the case. in fact, i’d even go further and say that if there was no trade deal between the european union and the united kingdom, an exception should be made for ireland because of political sensitivity, and it’s something that the world trade organisation, i have no doubt, would back up. and yet it seems to me that you are prepared to put your devotion to the european project above the interest of irish farmers and other companies too, and i wonder why. well, let’s cast our minds back a short distance: the rejection of the lisbon treaty by the irish. a second referendum forced on their people, conducted on the most unfair, undemocratic lines that i have ever seen. you are part, of course, of a big attempt here and elsewhere to frustrate and to attempt to overturn brexit. you don’t want britain to leave, because you know if they do, others will leave too. and i would just say this to you: i don’t want a second referendum on brexit – absolutely not. but i fear that you are all working together with tony blair and nick clegg to make sure we get the worst possible deal. i say that because i’ve seen it all before. the difference is, if you force the brits do it again, there will be a different outcome.
mr president, taoiseach, thank you for your vision of the future of europe. obviously, it is a future with the united kingdom outside of these institutions, but an important partner in trade, security, research and many other areas. as in the relationship between northern ireland and the republic of ireland, that future should be characterised by close links, shared values and cooperation. the outcome of brexit on the ties between our two countries will serve as a wider test of the credentials of any deal reached between the united kingdom and the european union. you have rightly stressed that there should be no hard border between northern ireland and the republic of ireland. we agree, but, mr varadkar, i hope you recognise that it is not in the irish republic’s interest to see northern ireland suffer. that would be the case if barriers were erected within the united kingdom internal market, disrupting almost 60% of local sales that go to great britain. the union that matters most to northern ireland, both constitutionally and economically, is within the united kingdom. in focusing on the border, mr varadkar, you must not forget the pre-existing relationships, east and west, that are of vital importance to both of our countries. 2018 will be a pivotal year for relationships between the european union and the united kingdom, and between northern ireland and the republic of ireland. i hope that we can continue to build that positive future which is vital for peace, security and economic prosperity.
mr president, fáilte taoiseach. today’s uncertain present will shape the future of the eu. brexit threatens to rip our island apart, dilute rights and freedoms we all enjoy, and stunt the economic and social development of our island. it threatens to harden the border, reinforce partition and undermine the good friday agreement. so therefore i welcome your comments today about a special arrangement for the north being possible. sinn féin meps liadh ní riada, lynn boylan, matt carthy and i also welcome your comments that the people of the north will never again be left behind by the irish government. you must hold firm to this, taoiseach. you must also commit to a europe that serves people, not multinationals. the civil, workers’, european, environmental, linguistic and human rights of all citizens needs to be protected and indeed enhanced. they won’t be achieved by a non-compassionate, faceless europe. it won’t be achieved in a europe where the gap between the rich and the poor grows, or in a europe of homelessness and housing waiting lists. and it certainly won’t be achieved in permanent structured cooperation (pesco) and in any manifestation of an aggressive, militaristic europe.
mr president, i would like to say to the taoiseach that he is very welcome here in the european parliament today. taoiseach, your visit is rather timely, given that we have just reached agreement on phase one of the brexit negotiations, and i welcome the fact that you were able to reach an agreement on that phase one and can proceed to talking about the future relationship within the european union. i do not want to return to the borders of the past or the divisions of the past. mr lamberts, please do not speak about northern ireland ever returning to violence in my presence again, because we are not. i listened to your comments, ms dodds. i was very concerned about brexit for those very reasons, and i certainly hope that we can move forward, east-west, north-south and equally. if we can achieve that one hundred percent you speak about, taoiseach, then i will welcome that. can i say, on a final point – and i hope you will agree with me – that the key to this agreement is to move things forward in northern ireland and get the northern ireland executive back up and running again at stormont. that, sir, is the key to the future of northern ireland and the future of our relationships within the context of brexit.
mr president, taoiseach, thank you for your speech. i too, like your nephew and niece, was born european, and you very kindly mention the one world city that will be leaving the european union. of course, there are people up and down the united kingdom who are fighting brexit, who are campaigning in towns and cities across the country, so don’t count us out yet. as mr farage has said, this issue is not settled, and how dare mr farage say that the european union had nothing to do with the peace process. i worked in the northern ireland office under the last government. i sat in the meetings with the victims and the families of the victims of the omagh bombing, and what i witnessed was their incredible dignity. they did not have anger; they did not have hatred, just a sense that no one should ever go through this again. it was not the common travel area that got rid of the checks on the border: it was the creation of the single market; it was the creation of free movement; it was the values espoused in this place and put into action that removed those barriers. we should never forget that. and a warning: there are people who just want brexit at any cost. they will try to undo what was agreed in phase one. let’s not let them do it.
mr president, cui bono. in whose benefit is this ban on biofuels? it is presented to us, as these things always are, as being in the interests of the planet and ecologically friendly and all the rest of it. but the reality is that this is a vote driven by the interests of rape seed producers here in europe, specifically the biofuels industry at home. it is a much less efficient product. producing rapeseed is in terms of the ratio of tonnage to energy about five times more costly than using palm oil, and yet it is being presented to us as being all about saving virgin forests and orangutans, and so on, to the extent that if there is any interest in malaysia and the other producing countries in this kind of ban, it comes from the large producers who are trying to squeeze their smaller competitors out of business. the reality is that we should have a market based on choice; we should trust consumers to use their own ethics and their own judgment; and we should not have cartels dictating european policy yet again.
thank you mr president. i am proud to back increased binding targets for renewable energy and energy efficiency. we are getting greener. for the first time since the industrial revolution, last year the uk had a day without using any coal power to generate electricity. british wind farms, such as ranson moor in fenland – which has a flat landscape, great for wind – and which i had the pleasure of visiting on friday, generated more electricity than coal plants on more than 75% of days last year. indeed, already this year, the compact cambridgeshire site has powered over a hundred homes. but past success is no guarantee for the future. i believe that britain needs to retain membership of the internal energy market, and our government needs to set a long-term consistent vision for energy, drop its opposition to onshore, and embrace these ambitious targets. we must not be blown off course. rather, let us embrace the winds of change.
mr president, many members of this house seem to have forgotten the devastation caused by the renewable energy directive in 2009, when binding targets for biofuels led to a sharp spike in land grabs and deforestation to grow crops for biofuels. as profits in the biofuels sector increase, so does their influence over policy-making, and their destructive impact was evident today. by increasing the cap on biofuels in the transport sector, parliament is incentivising the land for fuel policy that has led to global food insecurity. biofuel crops grown on peatland and deforested land contribute almost as much in carbon emissions as fossil fuels. i welcome the ban on palm oil for fuel, but crops like soybean, rapeseed and sunflower have carbon footprints that are almost as high as oil from tar sands. the 35% ceiling on biofuels by 2030 can be celebrated, but it is the fine detail in this directive that will have those in the biofuel lobby rubbing their hands in glee as they prepare to cash in on the land of the world’s most vulnerable people, land that should be managed for the good of the climate and for biodiversity.
mr president, thank you very much. now just so there’s no misunderstanding about my position on russia, i’ll repeat what i’ve said many times before. mr putin is a gangster that runs a gangster state. the old soviet union used to spend millions on infiltrating and undermining western governments and societies, and it has to be said they were very successful at it. so there’s nothing new going on, but you are seeking to create a scapegoat for your own unpopularity with the peoples of europe. now, don’t blame the russians for your own mistakes. to give you two examples, you’re unpopular because of economic stagnation on austerity due to the eurozone and mass uncontrolled immigration and the islamisation of our societies due to that immigration. now you seek a distraction and you found it in russian propaganda. you give mr putin too much credit. he is not the author of your unpopularity, you are the authors of your own unpopularity.
mr president, we are again discussing the influence of so-called russian propaganda in eu countries. what about the millions, the millions in eu propaganda to pervert the democratic decisions of the irish, the dutch and the french on the lisbon treaty? and you spent millions on eu propaganda to prevent brexit, aided and abetted of course by the bbc, the brussels broadcasting corporation, which also receives largesse i believe from the eu. this destroys any impartiality or credibility that they might have had. fortunately the british public saw through that one. but the eu is still trying to do this by setting up the orwellian propaganda machine to push the eu project and subvert national democracies, in your own words: “challenging euroscepticism”. well, it is pure pravda as the old soviet union called it, pure pravda. i am more concerned with eu propaganda than the clunky russian version, and i assure you so are most other people. mr mcallister talked about russia today, well russia today gave ukip a voice in the days when we could not get it on the bbc. so perhaps they are defending freedom and a freedom you lot want to close down. so thank god for them.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on budgetary control. – madam president, despite the initial delays in implementing the initiative the youth employment scheme, we believe, has been a huge success. however the budgetary control committee would like to make a few suggestions for the future. we believe that labour market demands and skills training should be better linked together. we also believe there should be a quality offer made to all young people and that there should be a definition of quality; we believe the definition so far is good but it could be improved upon. we also believe there should be more of a focus on the results of the programme. so far example, better indicators and monitoring of permanent contracts given to all young people who are on the programme. in other words we need to make sure that although we are spending this money and we are spending it on good things, we need to make sure this programme in particular is seen as effective. so in short president, we would say the programme has been a huge success but of course there is room for improvement.
madam president, we have heard in this debate that youth unemployment in the eu ranges from 5% in the north to almost 40% in greece. i also heard claims that this initiative has been – and i am going to quote – ‘hugely successful’. if using billions of taxpayers’ euros to train youth was hugely successful, why do we still see youth unemployment rates of 40% in greece? if this scheme is so great, use it to eradicate unemployment in southern europe. funding training is admirable, but it does not help skilled youth find worthy employment when there are no jobs. high taxation, red tape and restrictive employment laws are a barrier to small and medium—sized businesses taking on more staff. if you want to help our youth, promote freedom for our smes to run their businesses the way that they see fit with access to funds for investment and growth. surely the goal must be job creation.
madam president, paragraphs 34 and 43 of this report rightly treat the need to support apprenticeships in tackling youth unemployment. yet this week in the uk we see 1 400 apprentices thrown into absolute turmoil by the collapse under the tory government of the carillion construction firm. nobody is telling them anything or giving them any support whatsoever about whether they will have apprenticeships next week or the week after or will be joining the back of the queue, despite their best efforts to get on. one bricklaying apprentice in birmingham said: ‘yesterday we saw people leaving, the man in charge of stock just left, he was the first to go. then, we saw people high up in the office with their bags packed leaving. i saw another man going, and more people just with their bags packed going’. that is not support for apprenticeships, that is a disgrace and this tory government needs to look to itself and start looking after people.
madam president, in the years after the financial crisis almost one in five young people in the uk were not in education, employment or training, ‘neet’, which is often a phrase i do not like. my constituency was badly affected, in fact merseyside was one of the five uk areas granted youth employment initiative funding. what this report touches on reflects my concern. are our efforts working? in the uk, the number of inactive neets has stayed almost static since 2002. young women remain more likely to struggle than young men. disabled young people remain far more likely to be locked out of employment or education. young people in the uk are still three times more likely to be unemployed than the general population. the longer a young person spends ‘neet’, the greater the impact is on their employment prospects and even on their longer-term physical and mental health. so our efforts must be targeted better. those hardest-to-reach groups must be identified more effectively, otherwise for all out efforts we will still be left with a lost generation.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, i would like to thank our vice-presidents. it is interesting to hear your proposal. i know that it is not a very fashionable thing to say, but i am actually a great fan of plastic. it is a wonderful material. it has transformed most of our lives, certainly mine. if you are as old as i am, you can remember when there was not very much plastic around and life was very different. but we all have to accept, and there is common agreement, that we have probably got to the point where – a bit like all of our issues around climate change – it is time that we stopped just taking the benefits and realised that there are some pretty heavy downsides. i really think that this argument is done. it is made. i doubt if you will hear too many people today, or in the future when you are putting the strategy into place, arguing with that. i think our problem is going to be about how we put these proposals in place. perhaps, given where i stand in the chamber and possibly a little bit my nationality, it will not come as a great surprise to you that i am not such a fan as the two previous speakers of the legislation. that is not to say that i do not think we need any – of course we do, we do need a framework – but i would like to make an appeal for that to be as light as possible in the sense of setting member states’ targets and allowing them to use their own best efforts to meet those. the new thing in here that i took away was this issue about setting a single market for recyclable plastics, standards on how they are manufactured and what they are manufactured with. that is how you stimulate this change. it is by creating a market, making that market work and trusting the public. i can tell you that in the uk, where we have just banned microplastics, there was no resistance. they do not need to be brought on board. it is actually the functioning of the whole system that needs to be taken very seriously, so i thank you very much.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, my party and i strongly value products, materials and resources in our economy, and we believe that these should be kept in use for as long as possible in order to minimise the generation of waste in our environment. thus, it is our opinion that plastic, which is an extremely important material, should be used prudently. however, food packaging has led to a reduction in food wastage. the un’s food and agricultural organisation estimates that 33% of food produced for human consumption is lost or wasted globally, totalling about 1.3 billion tons per year. therefore, packaging techniques such as modified atmosphere packaging and innovations such as active and intelligent packaging can ameliorate this. my party and i therefore believe that plastic packaging which cannot be reused should be made of a substance that can be recycled.
mr president, it is the right of everyone to fully participate in culture. persons who are blind, visually impaired or otherwise print-disabled sadly continue to face many barriers in accessing books and other print materials which are protected by copyright and related rights. adopted in 2013, the marrakesh treaty, which allows for copyright exceptions to facilitate the creation of accessible versions of books and other copyrighted works for visually impaired persons was a landmark move to enable visually impaired people to access books with the same ease as sighted readers. whilst working as the shadow rapporteur in the committee on culture and education for this file, i consulted with a wide cross-section of stakeholders: disability experts, ngos working on disability issues and representatives from the author and publisher fields, who were largely in agreement with each other and stressed the importance of the speedy ratification of the treaty. europe’s non-discrimination law for people with disabilities is one of a string of eu actions that have brought tangible benefits for those who live with a disability in europe, including those who live in britain. with brexit, the disabled communities will lose a crucial platform to defend their rights. we must guard against that.
mr president, human trafficking is a serious crime that can affect anyone of any age, gender or nationality. it is a crime that currently affects every large town and city across the united kingdom and the european union, with women and girls making up more than 70% of the total estimated number of victims globally. national crime agency statistics estimate that, in the united kingdom alone, there are tens of thousands of victims of this horrific crime. previous estimates of between 10 000 and 13 000 across the uk are now thought to be only the tip of the iceberg. in 2015, the human trafficking and exploitation bill in northern ireland paved the way for more robust uk-wide legislation, giving additional support to those who have been victims of human trafficking. the bill gives much-needed support to victims with regard to compensation, providing ‘trafficking guardians’ for children who have been victims, and support up to and after criminal investigations. but legislation can only do so much. as we go about normal life, there is a growing and a good chance that you will come across a victim who has been exploited. education will be one of the only ways to eradicate this terrible, vile crime.
mr president, trafficking of women and children for sexual and labour exploitation is as rife as ever. one of the most vulnerable groups are of course children. in 2016 roughly one in three potential victims of modern slavery were children. but current statistics underestimate the true scale of what is going on, only showing what has been reported, and in some cases there are inconsistencies in recording. the disappearance of children is a cruel reality of modern day slavery. in 2015, 10 000 migrant children went missing within europe according to europol, all with the prospect of a better life but instead headed for a life of domestic servitude, sexual exploitation or child marriage. we are letting down these victims, leaving them vulnerable and open to being trafficked and abused. how have we let this terrible violation of human dignity worsen? criminalised gangs are taking advantage of the eu’s open borders and exploiting women and children for vast sums of money. victims are used as mere pawns in the game of crime. each victim is disposable and easily replaceable to the criminals. to them one death is nothing on the profitability of their enslavement. the commission must grasp that free movement of people is exacerbating the problem, failing the victims and aiding the criminals. as the eu prohibits the uk from conducting criminal background checks on eu citizens, it is no wonder that crime has escalated. migrant children could start in greece and end up in france without being tracked. this is not a simple matter, but each time we debate this nothing is resolved. if this issue is not addressed, then there is no hope for the victims.
mr president, the rising number of reports of trafficking in human beings is a matter of extreme concern, especially for feminists. as we know, women are far more likely to fall victim to trafficking, particularly for the purpose of sexual exploitation. the phenomenon is in complete contradiction with our values, as well as european and national law. it shows that women are still, in many cases, denied their humanity and objectified. i would like to highlight the situation of trans sex workers, whose situation and voice is too often overlooked. most trans murders are perpetrated against sex workers who are often already victims of human trafficking. their experience must be taken into account and our policies should have a specific trans focus. i am very curious to know what steps the commission has concretely taken to put an end to the trafficking of human beings. it is shameful to see that our governments pretend to take the issue of trafficking seriously when it comes to preventing migrants from reaching europe, but fail to address it with the gravity it requires when it comes to women and trans people. i look forward to your responses, commissioner.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, as a brexiteer i often point out there is no european demos. people are primarily loyal to their own nation state, and that is a major flaw in the eu project. i do acknowledge, however, that there is indeed a shared european cultural heritage based primarily on the christian religion. look at our cathedrals, including the astonishing one in this fair city. our great universities, too, grew out of monasteries and cathedral schools, while many masterpiece paintings depict bible scenes. yet the european year of cultural heritage does not seem to understand this, talking instead of ‘discovering diversity’ and ‘starting an inter—cultural conversation’. it promises to be little more, i am afraid, than a multicultural group hug, and yet seldom before has the cultural underpinning which, ultimately, advanced ideas such as female emancipation and democratic reform been more in need of honouring or affirming.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, good morning to you and the 25 brave members prepared to turn up this morning. mairead, if you are able to pronounce the name of the next speaker on the list to their satisfaction, i think i’ll buy you a drink. this report calls for yet more unnecessary interference in the field of professional services. therefore it goes without saying that i cannot support this initiative. this is yet another area where the commission has pushed forward with their political agenda and has introduced more harmonisation. we would not be here talking about this this morning if there was a great appetite for such actions around europe. the fact that six member states did not submit their national action plans within the deadline given by the commission speaks for itself. such statistics do not lead me to believe that a harmonised approach to this subject is the correct approach or that it is even welcome. the aim of opening up professions in order to create more jobs and improve the economy is honourable. very few people would disagree with this. however, i believe that member states are more than capable of carrying this out themselves, if and when it is necessary. it is certainly not for the commission to become involved with. member states should be free to act as they wish, as will benefit their citizens, as they are in the best position to say what works best for their citizens and their economies. the united kingdom already has a strong history of trustworthy professionals, and we certainly do not need the european union’s interference in order to continue this proud tradition.
madam president, these efforts by the european union to harmonise professional qualifications are the next step towards the creation of a federal superstate, but when you have got disastrous youth unemployment figures, such as in greece and italy, what else can you do but try and liberalise the market and give people, young people, the opportunity to move to where the jobs are? worldwide university rankings consistently put the united kingdom in the top tier. no other countries, other than germany and sweden, come anywhere near, and there is a very big distance between them. but no one seems to have considered in the european union, in the commission, the threat posed by 400 fake universities in china and 300 in india, all of them issuing degrees and other qualifications which are creating real distortions and real threats in the market. under the freedom of movement pillar, this particular directive and this proposal are going to create a brand new opportunity for european-based criminal gangs, and i can see some real problems coming down the line, and i would like to see them addressed.
madam president, no, there is no point. i do not wish to give another mep unneeded and unnecessary speaking time.
madam president i wasn’t going to start by making a comment about one of the previous speakers but i think i will. i am absolutely forced to. the individual who just spoke – ms james, a former leader of ukip – talking about her interest in higher education and young people in my country beggars belief. young people in my country are now going to be denied access to working in another eu country. and as for her interest in higher education, well … higher education is about to lose money in terms of our research budgets, so i am sorry madam president but i had to say something against that speaker. mr danti’s report, however, is something to be welcomed. too many people in our european union today are denied the basic right to use their professional qualification in another member state. it is disgraceful that, in 2018, those people cannot do something that is part of their fundamental rights. having this debate today is therefore absolutely pivotal, so that people will be able to realise the potential that is there, so that europeans’ talent is realised, and so that we can be successful in creating the knowledge economy that we all want to see. (applause)
madam president, i too would like to thank mr danti for his report because it is clear we need more political commitment to remove barriers to services. this parliament has said that repeatedly, including in the report i did on non-tariff barriers in 2016. we often hear that restriction is essential, but what that really means is we want to stop other europeans from offering services. it is discriminatory and it is against the principles of the treaties. mutual recognition is at the heart of many aspects of the single market: it is what makes the single market unique. yet it is under threat more than anywhere in professional services. from hairdressers to ski instructors, we’re all aware of, frankly, ridiculous examples of protectionism that are dressed up as protecting the public. they do no such thing. consumers pay more and get worse services, europeans are denied employment opportunities, new businesses never develop, and as a continent we struggle to innovate. we need more honest effort to reduce barriers in professional services which are the biggest global growth area, and we need to stop discriminating against eu citizens. now the uk may not be part of this in the future, but europe still needs a true internal market in services to thrive. (applause)
author. – madam president, nigeria is beset by multiple challenges, from geographical sectarian divisions to fighting brutal jihadi terrorism. given its huge natural oil resources, nearly 200 million in population and strong economic position in africa, it should be a role model for the rest of the continent. whilst we are familiar with the tragic kidnapping of the chibok schoolgirls, the majority of whom are still missing, we must remind ourselves too of the thousands of others that have been killed and the 1.4 million that have been displaced by boko haram, a brutal terrorist organisation, since its inception in 2009. the campaign against boko haram has had some success under president buhari. however, attacks persist and there is still a lack of understanding about the group’s underlying support base and where it gets its funding from. corruption remains, of course, one of the biggest challenges for nigeria, placed 136 out of 175 countries in the transparency international index. buhari’s government needs to do far more to investigate and prosecute those guilty of corruption. none of the challenges facing nigeria are easy to overcome. we see in our own countries, even with the benefit of much greater resources at our disposal, the difficulties in defeating international terrorism. the eu must therefore continue to extend its offers of support and help, and to share our experience, in conjunction with the african union, in supporting nigeria.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, like many other countries in africa, nigeria is a prime example of a country that should be rich but in reality is poor. it is africa’s largest oil producer, yet more than half of nigerian people live on less than two dollars a day. the demographic explosion means scarce resources come under pressure and fuel conflict. this is not some faraway doom scenario. last year hundreds of shepherds were killed or disappeared in violent clashes. meanwhile, the impact of terror committed by boko haram continues to be felt. the eu as a whole, and the uk in particular, have particular interests at stake in the country, whether it is managing migration flows or sealing lucrative business deals after brexit, but these agendas will not get anywhere unless underlying problems in nigeria are addressed: corruption, inequality and inter-ethnic tension. so my question to the commissioner is the following: what measures are we taking, as part of our aid to nigeria, to help tackle these root causes? do you agree that close cooperation and coordination with the uk after brexit are necessary in order to make sure we are not going on different strands?
madam president, over the last few years, the islamic terrorist organisation boko haram has killed more than 20 000 people, many of them christians. thousands of women and children were enslaved and raped, and according to the international criminal court, there are reasonable grounds to believe the boko haram may have committed crimes against humanity. a majority in this parliament wants, and i quote, ‘to monitor the situation in nigeria to ensure that eu funding is spent effectively’. this is a very weak and naive position. nigeria should be an extremely wealthy nation – that is how the british empire left it. we left it wealthy. why are we giving eu taxpayers’ money to a country which is one of the most corrupt nations on earth? why are we still giving european humanitarian aid to a government that is completely unable or unwilling to stop these atrocities? the eu does not need to fund this type of failed state, nor do we need a european external action service to follow up on the situation in countries like nigeria. i suppose the american president might unfortunately have a word for that, but fortunately not here. it is up to the nation-state, in cooperation with the united nations, to sort this out, not the european union with european taxpayers’ money. it’s a total waste.
author. – madam president, economic interests have become increasingly important in eu-china relations, sadly overshadowing the eu’s commitment to promoting human rights across the globe. in this context, the urgency resolution we are debating today comes as a timely reminder that we can, and must, reverse this trend. this resolution underlines the need to shift our focus and finally engage in a meaningful discussion on the importance of fundamental freedoms in our bilateral relations. this is necessary if we wish to establish a sustainable partnership with china, our second biggest trading partner. two tibetans are named in the resolution: tashi wangchuk, a language rights activist, and the buddhist monk choekyi have been imprisoned and subjected to inhumane treatment merely for defending tibetan culture. no evidence has been presented against mr wangchuk, while monk choekyi’s health is deteriorating without proper medical care. such treatment is clearly in violation of the constitution of the republic of china, which guarantees freedom of religion and upholds the rights of minority nationalities. the cases presented in this resolution have raised fears that chinese criminal law might be abused to persecute minorities, and we should not remain silent on such developments. rather, the eu must urge beijing to end the repression of tibetan culture through religious persecution, anti—buddhist campaigns and the so-called patriotic education approach. in addition, it should call on the chinese government to resume the dialogue on tibet’s status with the tibetan administration and finally reach a solution that grants it genuine autonomy within the framework of the chinese constitution.
mr president, i recently had the pleasure of visiting the fantastic charity ‘support 4 sight’, in saffron walden, which assists visually impaired people to maintain their independence and quality of life. they showed me braille, large print and e-books. sadly, though, the so-called book famine means that only 5% of published books are ever made accessible to the visually impaired in richer countries, and less than 1% in poorer ones. e—books and the digital revolution ought to help end this by allowing more accessible books to be shared easily and cheaply. that is why copyright law keeping pace with technology is so vital. the ratification and implementation of the marrakesh treaty will benefit visually impaired british and european citizens and people in developing countries, so today i also call on the uk government to ensure that britain will be a signatory to this treaty post-brexit as well, and that it does so with no unreasonable commercial availability checks for charities and libraries. let us get some clarity on this issue and hear what action they intend to take.
mr president, a happy new year to you. it is very nice to see you back in the chair, and thank you for chairing the session so deftly. this debate is a very interesting little example of the way in which international rules and regulations are presented at regional or continental level. i do not think anyone in this house is going to disagree with the substance of the marrakesh treaty, with the exemption from certain copyright rules for visually impaired people, and so on. the only difference is that, at the moment, the united kingdom is represented in all of that process by one 28th of the commission whereas, from now on, we will have an independent voice. i think it is worth celebrating the fact that there will be a friendly, independent voice alongside that of our neighbours and allies in the eu27, pushing for a stable and orderly world system based on rules.
mr president, regulated professions represent a very significant proportion of the labour force within the european economy. ensuring their correct regulation is essential for the smooth running of public-interest services such as health care, legal aid and education. therefore, i supported this report and the positive amendments to it, including those emphasising the need to improve transparency and consultation of professional workers and consumers. in the light of the planned exit of the uk from the eu, it is also important that regulations protecting standards in professional services and training for workers are maintained in my country. this point should be properly and explicitly addressed in the negotiations around the withdrawal agreement.
president of the european central bank. – mr president, mr vice-president of the commission, honourable members of the european parliament, i am very pleased to be here to discuss with you the ecb’s activities and your draft resolution on the ecb’s annual report for 2016. today’s debate represents a good opportunity to take stock of progress made and discuss the way forward. a decade ago, the global financial crisis was starting. today, while further efforts are needed to overcome its legacy, the euro area economy is expanding and employment is rising. your draft resolution points out that monetary policy has played a key role in this recovery process. the ecb has indeed acted decisively, in line with its mandate. we have addressed financial fragmentation and supported the economy, enabling inflation gradually to converge towards our objective. the draft resolution also notes that the independence of the ecb has allowed us to take resolute action within our mandate. but independence is just one of the cornerstones of our institutional framework. accountability is its necessary counterpart. and you, as the representatives of the people of the european union, are the heart of our accountability. together, independence and accountability underpin our effectiveness and our legitimacy. in my remarks today, i will focus on two particular issues that have been raised in the draft resolution. first, i will elaborate on economic developments in the euro area and the role of the ecb’s monetary policy. second, i will discuss the state of the financial sector and the measures needed to further strengthen its resilience. the euro area economy is expanding robustly, with growth rates stronger than previously expected and significantly above potential. according to preliminary data, euro area real gdp increased by 2.5% in 2017, compared to the 1.7% that had been foreseen in our december 2016 staff projections for the same year. the economic expansion is broad-based. the dispersion of growth rates across countries and across sectors is at its lowest level in 20 years. accordingly, we see positive growth in over 85% of the sectors in the euro area economy, compared with a historical average of 75%. employment growth has recently strengthened, as well, in all the main sectors, namely industry, construction and market services. these developments bode well for economic growth, as expansions tend to be stronger and more resilient when growth is broad-based. the number of people employed in the euro area has also increased by around 7.5 million, since hitting a low in mid-2013. employment has now reached its highest level since the introduction of the euro. the unemployment rate continues to decline and now stands at close to a nine-year low of 8.7%, down by 3.3 percentage points from its highest level. as more people find jobs, household incomes rise. this has helped to strengthen private consumption growth, which in turn is boosting business investment. in addition, a number of other factors have supported investment. these include higher demand for euro area exports, rising corporate profitability and an increasing use of installed productive capacity. these positive developments have been fostered and reinforced by the pass-through of the ecb’s monetary policy measures, which have eased funding conditions for households and firms. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in particular have benefited from our policy measures. the growing inclusiveness of this economic expansion is partly due to the renewed vigour of small businesses, which are a key engine of income creation in our economy. while our confidence that inflation will converge towards our aim of below, but close to, 2% has strengthened, we cannot yet declare victory on this front. after increasing to 2% in early 2017 due to a rise in energy prices, headline inflation has fluctuated since may last year between 1.3% and 1.5%. measures of underlying inflation, which exclude the most volatile components, remained subdued and have yet to show convincing signs of a sustained upward trend. also, new headwinds have arisen from the recent volatility in the exchange rate, whose implications for the medium-term outlook for price stability require close monitoring. on the back of improved economic conditions, the financial stability situation in the euro area has also continued to evolve positively. as i will explain in more detail, for the time being we have little indication that generalised imbalances are emerging. overall, while we can be more confident about the path of inflation, patience and persistence with regard to monetary policy are still warranted for underlying inflation pressures to build up and inflation to converge durably towards our objective. that is why – at our last meeting – we reaffirmed the decisions taken at our october monetary policy meeting last year. accordingly, our net asset purchase programme, running at a monthly pace of eur 30 billion, will continue until september 2018, or beyond, if necessary, and in any case until the governing council sees a sustained adjustment in the path of inflation consistent with its inflation aim. in parallel, we will reinvest the principal payments from maturing securities purchased under the asset purchase programme for an extended period of time after the end of those purchases, and in any case for as long as necessary. we expect our key interest rates to remain at their present levels for an extended period of time, and well past the horizon of our net asset purchases. looking forward, we remain fully committed to our price stability objective and – in line with our monetary policy strategy – we aim to stabilise inflation around levels that are below, but close to, 2% within a meaningful medium-term horizon. as always, our monetary policy will continue to be guided by our assessment of the progress made towards our objective. our forward guidance continues to provide a stable framework for our monetary policy stance and its outlook. in line with that guidance, monetary policy will evolve in a fully data-dependent and time-consistent manner. let me also say a few words about the financial sector. your draft resolution also considers several aspects related to the euro financial sector and i would like to follow up on some of them. let me first of all emphasise that our monetary policy and a healthier financial sector are mutually reinforcing. by supporting the economic recovery, our monetary policy measures have had a positive impact on the credit quality of banks’ loans to businesses and households, and have helped banks further to reduce their provisioning costs. moreover, a stronger economy generates greater volumes of sustainable bank lending. both factors have therefore strengthened the solidity of the european banking sector. a better integrated and sounder financial sector has also been able to transmit our policy impulses more evenly across the euro area. the improved health of the banking sector, coupled with our credit easing measures, has brought about a marked improvement in the transmission process, as shown by the reduced heterogeneity of bank lending rates across countries, and by the improved borrowing conditions for smes. a more robust financial sector has also allowed us to pursue an accommodative policy for as long as necessary, without any build-up of significant financial stability risks. the draft resolution points in particular to the risks stemming from possible asset bubbles. we are closely monitoring developments in some market segments, such as prime commercial real estate and housing markets in some countries, and corporate bond markets for lower-rated issuers. as we explain in our financial stability review, asset price increases in euro area markets have so far not been accompanied by excessive credit growth. although credit flows have been recovering, growth rates are still far below anything we saw before the crisis, and on the low side of the range of growth rates historically seen during recoveries. so there is no evidence of systemic credit-fuelled bubbles. the efforts we have made in recent years to strengthen prudential regulation and supervision, above all with the establishment of the banking union, have certainly played a role in protecting financial stability. in particular, ecb banking supervision plays a key role in ensuring the safety and soundness of banks. it enhances the banks’ resilience through strengthened prudential regulation. it also fosters cross-border financial integration and provides a level playing field by harmonising supervision across the euro area. also, on the macro-prudential side, we see national authorities in close cooperation with the ecb being very active in further mitigating the emergence of possible systemic risks, especially in respect of residential real-estate developments. despite the improved cyclical environment, improved market sentiment and the substantial strengthening of its shock absorption capacity, the european banking sector continues to face structural challenges, as you also state in your resolution. indeed, overcapacity and cost inefficiencies continue to weigh on bank profitability in certain banking markets. moreover, the high stock of non-performing loans (npls) needs to be further reduced and any future build-up needs to be avoided. non-performing loan levels have been declining for more than three years and good progress has been made on the eu council action plan, although there is still a considerable way to go. additional efforts by banks, supervisors, regulators and legislators are needed to create an environment in which non-performing loans can be effectively managed and efficiently disposed of. strengthening the resilience of the euro area financial sector also means adapting to a changing operating environment. the resolution mentions, for instance, the growing role of fintech companies. this means more competition for banks, including in the field of lending and payment services. at the same time, new technology presents an opportunity for banks to increase the value added and the cost-efficiency of their services. another factor shaping the euro area financial sector is the united kingdom’s decision to leave the european union. at this stage, we do not have clarity regarding the shape of the uk’s future relationship with the eu. well-managed preparations are thus essential for dealing with frictions in the transition from the current situation to the new eventual equilibrium, especially in the event that no transitional agreement is reached between the eu and the united kingdom. banks and financial institutions are not the only ones that have to prepare for an operating environment in a state of flux. policymakers too, at national and european level, have to make sure that the regulatory framework is fit and ready to safeguard the resilience of the financial sector in the face of new challenges. let me mention two examples. first, finalising the banking reform package is crucial. the package will strengthen the regulatory architecture, reduce risks in the banking sector and increase financial stability. it will introduce into union law new internationally agreed standards, such as the leverage ratio requirement, which will restrict the build-up of excessive leverage in the banking system, and the standard on total loss-absorbing capacity, otherwise known as tlac, which will strengthen the resolution framework. as co-legislators, you play a vital role in this process, and i would encourage you to aim for consistent implementation of the internationally agreed standards, so as to ensure a level playing field worldwide and to reduce options and national discretion as much as possible. second, it is important to complete the architecture of the banking union by putting in place the agreed common backstop to the single resolution fund and by establishing a european deposit insurance scheme (edis). these are two fundamental pieces of the banking union project and their implementation should not be postponed. the backstop should ensure that sufficient funding is available at all times to guarantee orderly resolutions. a fully-fledged edis is an indispensable counterpart to the single currency as everyone in the euro area should be able to have confidence that the money in their bank account enjoys the same level of protection, regardless of where the account is held within the euro area. let me conclude. we pay close attention to parliament’s resolution on our annual report, and we will respond in detail to the issues you raise there when we publish our ecb annual report for 2017. the strong relationship between parliament and the ecb not only demonstrates the importance of accountability, but also bears possible lessons for reflection on the future of economic and monetary union, the strengthening of which should remain a priority. a well-designed and effective policy framework requires clear institutional architecture, measurable objectives and the tools to achieve them – and it needs to be accompanied by strong accountability. this is not only essential to ensure that policies are effective. it is also crucial if the public is to understand those policies and play an active role, in particular via their representatives in parliament. thank you for your attention. i am now at your disposal for questions. (applause)
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jonás fernández, and the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs (econ) for their report on the ecb’s annual report. it is a pleasure to be here today to discuss this with you and president draghi. an ex-post debate on the ecb’s activities by the european parliament is an expression of democratic accountability. so let me start by saying that the commission largely shares the general thrust of the report prepared by the econ committee. the commission shares the report’s views that the ecb’s independence in the conduct of its monetary policy, as enshrined in the treaty, is crucial to the objective of safeguarding price stability. accountability and independence are intertwined, and in this report the commission shares the views that the ecb’s responsibilities and tasks require transparency towards the public at large. the commission also shares the views of the econ report that the ecb’s unconventional monetary policy actions, such as forward guidance and quantitative easing, improved the transmission of monetary policy. they also had a positive impact on the overall financing conditions in the euro area and certainly contributed to the start of the ongoing economic upswing. the implementation of the above-mentioned ecb policy measures is expected to keep on gradually improving the financial conditions and contribute to bringing inflation closer to the ecb’s objective of close to but below 2%. we also share the econ report’s views that a prolonged period of low or even negative interest rates could represent a challenge to the profitability of various actors in the european financial sector. that said, the low interest rates were necessary to support the recovery and had some positive impact in the short term on financing costs and capital gains for banks. these introductory remarks sum up our main points on the report. i am looking forward to a fruitful debate today and i trust that you will confirm the constructive engagement that has developed between the parliament and the ecb over the years. finally, i also would like to thank president draghi for highlighting the importance of the work of completing economic and monetary union and the banking union, and we fully share this priority.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, it is ten years now since the irresponsible activities of bankers and the structural problems of the global banking system led to the bailing out of the financial sector at great public cost. while the activities of central banks have patched up the system, many of the fundamental design flaws have not been addressed. there is still an urgent need for deep structural reform of the euro area banking system, as institutions remain too big or too interconnected to fail. my group remains concerned that this point is not being adequately addressed in the report. in our view, the ecb remains a provider of implicit public subsidies to these institutions that represent a fundamental threat to the stability and efficient allocation of capital in the eu and internationally. as greens, we are also determined to ensure that the ecb’s activities are consistent with our paris climate commitments and that the asset purchase programme does not undermine our rapid transition away from fossil fuels.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i would suggest to signor draghi that he and all of europe should be concerned with the way messrs barnier and verhofstadt are treating the city of london in these so-called brexit ‘negotiations’, which are nothing of the sort. whether barnier or verhofstadt like it or not, the city of london is the banker of europe, if not the world, and it will remain so after brexit. by not organising a proper deal, verhofstadt and barnier are threatening the stability of the eurozone. as euro fanatics, barnier and verhofstadt would rather damage the economic future of the people of europe than in any way upset the european project, which is their sole objective and fanaticism. barnier’s job is not to negotiate a deal but to nobble, destroy, damage britain’s ability to embarrass the european union by running an effective market—driven economy rather than the european command economy envisioned by the european project which has failed so miserably in eastern europe over the last 50 years. mr draghi, more than anyone, as an italian banker, should know the precarious situation many italian banks are in, and that creating problems in the city of london and making it harder for italian banks and people round europe to obtain credit may well damage italian banks and push them over the edge into bankruptcy, followed by the eurozone. this will hardly help small businesses all over europe. why should britain care? well, quite frankly, we don’t want an economic basket case on our frontier. we want to trade with you. we want to do business with you. we want to be friends with you, but we want to retain our own bank accounts and our own economy as we are quite entitled to do. i would ask you, mr draghi, are you not concerned about what’s going on with barnier and verhofstadt? thank you for your indulgence, mr president.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the ultimate aim of this legislation and other such proposals, is the furthering of the single market and harmonisation of legislation across europe. such reports exist in order to fulfil one political objective, a united states of europe. recent events in the uk prove that there is no appetite for this. differences in prices are because of supply and demand, ultimately a common sense approach adopted by businesses. the european union is made up of 28 member states, all of whom carry different cultures and identities, a one-size-fits-all approach to such diversity just does not work. it is of course a positive to be giving citizens better access to goods and services, however businesses should be free to conduct sales as they see fit, without the eu telling them what to do. if it worked for businesses to implement the aims of this legislation they would have already done so themselves. the commission should recognise this and leave member states and businesses to determine what is in their own best interests and act as they see fit.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, who has done a good job here. e—commerce is one of our fastest growing industries. consumers no longer recognise borders and boundaries when shopping. the internet gives them the choice to look for anything, anywhere. that is a revolution in choice. but sadly, the law and many companies have yet to catch up with shoppers. that is why this regulation is important: breaking down artificial barriers and ending unfair price discrimination. now i am sad that i cannot yet pay to watch cricket coverage and other audiovisual stuff here in belgium, but that will come in the future. because with more competition, we get lower prices and better service: everyone wins. we have come a long way from the commission’s original proposal, which needed some work, but no company now has to sell where it cannot deliver. but everything will see more transparency and cheaper pricing. this is a digital revolution in action. so i commend this report as an action of good policy – but a warning: do not cut the eu off from the rest of the world. this should be a template for global e—commerce. we should see customs de minimis thresholds brought in line with offline thresholds. e—commerce and consumers should not be punished just for shopping online. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – well, as i understand it, we’re in a single market and in a single market there’s a principle that consumers cannot be discriminated against on nationality. that’s the principle of the single market in general and it should be a principle that applies in the digital single market. we can’t have two different rules for online and offline commerce.
mr president, i welcome the collective effort to combat discrimination against consumers by removing unnecessary barriers for accessing the same level and quality of online services for the benefit of citizens across the eu. nevertheless, for some online services it is important to keep a balanced perspective and ensure the viability of content creation, in particular for creative and media content. the principle of territoriality is at the core of the economic models of many european content producers, media services providers and channels. it is also in many cases how the production of high-quality european works of all types is ensured, nourishing a vibrant cultural diversity. i am particularly concerned about small independent creators and artists. it is very difficult for smaller enterprises to earn a living today and i want to make sure that their interests are defended along with increased accessibility of content and cultural diversity for users.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would like to thank parliament for organising a debate on the eu vat reform, a key initiative included in the 2017 commission work programme and a topic of utmost importance for member states and businesses. member states reply heavily on value added tax (vat) revenues to finance their public spending. however the vat gap between expected revenue and revenue actually collected is estimated at more than eur 150 billion per year. it has also been estimated that cross—border fraud alone represents an annual loss of revenue of around eur 50 billion, money that could be spent on public services. the current vat system is not only prone to fraud, but also too fragmented for a growing number of businesses operating cross—border. therefore the commission decided to renew the vat system as part of its agenda for a fair and efficient tax system in the european union. in particular, the commission is proposing to create a single european vat area that caters for the challenges of the 21st century. i recall that the weaknesses of the current system were acknowledged also by this parliament in its resolution ‘towards a definitive vat system and fighting vat fraud’ of november 2016. in the same resolution parliament shared the commission’s view that the definitive vat system should be based on the principle of taxation in the country of destination, which addresses tax competition between member states. i am proud to say that the commission has delivered on all its commitments made in the action plan on vat of april 2016. the first proposal of the action plan, which will modernise and simplify vat for cross—border e—commerce, was adopted by the council in december last year. this is very good news for businesses. furthermore, between october last year and 18 january this year, the commission adopted the last five proposals announced in its action plan. i will present these five proposals to you today by focusing on their three main objectives. firstly, to create a single vat area that establishes a level playing field for eu businesses and in particular for smes. secondly, to create a single vat area that is fraud—proof, with tax administrations working closely together. and thirdly, to create a single vat area that treats member states equally and grants them more freedom in setting vat rates. so to start with the first objective, a level playing field for businesses, i would remind you that our current vat system is fragmented, complex for a growing number of businesses operating cross—border. the latter have vat compliance costs 11% higher than companies having only domestic activities. we have to open the borders of vat and create a real single vat area for eu companies. the proposals adopted in october 2017 represent the cornerstone for a new system, based on the principle of taxation in the country of destination, which will result in taxing cross—border sales the same way as domestic sales. the main simplification is that companies selling cross—border will deal with their vat obligations via a one—stop—shop. that means that traders will make declarations and payments using a single online portal. the commission also adopted in january 2018 measures to simplify vat procedures for smes, which represent over 98% of all eu businesses. currently the cost of compliance under the present vat system hits smes much harder than it does big business. the proposal we made will extend the benefits of the vat sme exemption to all small businesses, irrespective of whether they are established in the member state in which the vat is due or not. the new rules will also simplify compliance for a larger group of smes – exempt and non-exempt from vat. all businesses with a turnover of less than eur 2 million per year will be able to benefit from simplified registration, invoicing, reporting and book—keeping obligations. we estimate that this proposal will result in a compliance cost reduction of up to 18% for smes. the second main objective of our vat reform is to address the unacceptable problem of vat cross—border fraud which, as already mentioned, represents around eur 50 billion per year. criminal networks exploit the weaknesses of the current vat systems. journalists have also established links between cross—border fraud and the financing of terrorism. this is no longer acceptable and we should put an end to this phenomenon. by eliminating borders for vat procedures, the new definitive vat system should eliminate much of the large—scale cross—border vat fraud. as implementing a new regime will take time, we need to take urgent measures to contain cross—border vat fraud. this is why the commission proposed in november 2017 a proposal to enhance the cooperation between national administrations and close loopholes in information sharing. this proposal, which is now being discussed in the council, aims to build trust between member states by allowing them to exchange more information, in a more efficient manner, so as to better detect and identify fraudsters. this proposal will also boost the cooperation between national tax authorities and law enforcement authorities such as customs, olaf, europol and the newly created european public prosecutor’s office. eventually our intention is to reduce complexity around the issue of reduced vat rates. although there are general rules, over 200 reduced and zero rates still exist in all member states, that were initially intended as temporary derogations from the general rules. in the frame of the definitive system based on the principle of destination, which will address tax competition, member states would have more freedom to set their vat rates under harmonised rules that will treat all member states equally. one of the major changes proposed by the commission is to replace the list of goods and services to which reduced rates can be applied with a negative list to which reduced rates cannot be applied. the main advantage of this negative list is that it is to be structured according to the statistical classification. the same statistical classification will also be used to collect and publish structured information about reduced rates applied in all member states via a web portal. on these grounds the web portal will allow all businesses to easily retrieve information on vat rates. further harmonisation concerns the use of reduced rates. they must clearly be for the benefit of citizens, who are the final consumers paying vat. to prevent revenue erosion the commission will protect vat as an important source of income for member states. indeed member states will have to ensure that they apply an effective average weighted vat rate of at least 12%, which is the lowest applied today in some eu member states, and the requirement of a minimum standard vat rate of 15% will become a permanent requirement. finally the proposed amendments to the vat directive as regards reduced rates will enter into force only when the definitive regime is effectively in place. to conclude, let me say that these proposals represent a win for both member states’ revenues and european businesses. so it is our responsibility to act and therefore i call on parliament to take the lead and show ambition for real reform of the vat system.
madam president, we welcome the proposal to strengthen the unified vat regime so that vat is paid in the country where the goods or services are consumed and at the rate applicable in that country. this is essential to tackle the high current levels of vat fraud. we welcome any simplification of rules related to cross—border transactions that will aid businesses, especially smes, to operate in the internal market. personally, i am also delighted that the commission is inviting all eu member states to follow the uk practice of exempting the smallest businesses from vat altogether, something i have been campaigning for for some time. my worry is that the council will try to block these reforms. it would represent a defeat for businesses and for tax cooperation in the eu if member states are not able to trust each other and accept that one country can collect and send vat revenues on behalf of another. the temporary vat regime has been in place for 25 years now, and it is time we worked together to replace it with something that works better for citizens as well as businesses.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank the commissioner and all of his team, some of whom are with us here today. i would like to thank the council and their hardworking team and, of course, all my wonderful hardworking colleagues here in parliament. nothing is ever perfect, and the emission trading system (ets) is certainly no exception to that, but it remains the cornerstone of our eu policy to combat climate change and we have done our best to agree an ambitious update. the ets has had a chequered history. there have been many detractors over the years. we tackled many problems – from a carbon price that was clearly too low to make the market function to the extremely difficult issue of striking the balance between our environmental ambition and the protection of energy-intensive european industry. this is always open, and we are always discussing it, but it remains a system operating in 31 countries. the rest of the world has sometimes been disappointingly slow to catch up, but now we have some momentum going. we have the recent agreement with switzerland, we have president trump to thank for the call to action in the united states, which has meant some ambitious plans in california and their tie—up with ontario, and indeed even movement in china, where i know the commission has been very active in terms of helping with their own putative system. so we are making this agreement in the context of a world that is moving forward. it would be nice, actually, to be criticised at some point for not being the best system in the world, so we look forward to that in the near future hopefully. however, the background to this update is challenging. we must have a system that can deliver the eu’s paris commitments, but sometimes reality is at odds with this. we were working against the background of the 2014 council conclusions, which was not always helpful. there are challenging internal politics around the relationship between the eu 15 and more recent accession states, with a lively discussion on the absolute amounts and on the conditions that would be appropriate to impose in providing the flow of funds to assist these member states. we also had the difficult issue of indirect cost compensation, warmly embraced by some member states and not by others, leading to a fundamental question as to whether, if some member state governments are prepared to support their industry financially and others are not, eu funds should be used to iron out the differences. we await further developments on state aid rules to illuminate this question. i welcome the compromise that we reached on this, but we did not settle the matter. the discussions will continue. i do not intend to list all the final conclusions of the deal, just a couple that are highlights for me. the 2023 review – in line with the global stock-take of the paris agreement – will include a possible increase in the 2.2% linear reduction factor. this is a major achievement. secondly, there is the substantial withdrawal of excess allowances from the system. and, thirdly, what is called the ‘duncan mechanism’ in tribute to the rapporteur who preceded me – i think we should now call it the ‘lord duncan mechanism’ – comes in if the cross-sector correction factor is applied. if it is not needed, then additional funds go to the innovation fund and the modernisation fund. we have changes to benchmarks and carbon leakage lists, offering a fine balance between carbon leakage protection and ambition. these are just a few points. there is a clear stamp of the european parliament on this agreement – new thinking and new mechanisms which have been taken on board – and i thank my colleagues for this. but sometimes what defines the role of rapporteur is the most frequently asked question: what did you want that you didn’t achieve? well, for me, there are two clear things here: the important issue of environment performance standards – we did our best, we made advances but we didn’t get the specific, clear numerical limit we wanted – and the issue of shipping. we got our recital on the international maritime organisation (imo), but we wanted more. i think parliament has made a very clear statement that this is not good enough. we pass this baton on to others in other pieces of legislation, but i hope they will recognise the job that we did.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank everybody who spoke. it is very kind of you all – well, most of you – to speak highly of the work that we have done, but let us remember that it was a joint effort. when you are listening to a debate like this, it is easy to get hung up on all the detail, all the things that we could have done, or should have done, a little bit better, or the bits we left out and the member states for whom it does not quite fit. so we have to bring ourselves back to basics and remember that the cap-and-trade system gives us the opportunity for an increased carbon price, which creates the incentive for industry to invest. it also creates a huge amount of money for member states to invest in their own industry around the whole issue of decarbonising technology. i think we need to call on all those member states, as we conclude these negotiations and put this into law. we need to call on all of those member states to remember that this does not constitute drawing a line which they do not have to pass. they can see this as just the start of the efforts they make towards achieving our paris commitments. there is so much that they could do, and here we really need to hold their feet to the fire, to make sure they take advantage of the flexibilities that we have given them, and that we have built in, in order to achieve and invest wisely for the future. as all of you know, this will probably be the last thing for which i take responsibility as a rapporteur, but i can assure you that i will be going back to my member state and trying, firstly, to sort out what we are going to do when we are not part of this ets system. whatever comes of that, i hope it will complement it well, that my own member state will continue to be an exemplar in terms of carbon-reduction investment and that we will be able to continue to work together in the happy spirit that we have done.
madam president, first of all i would like to thank mr buzek for the work he has put into the drafting of this report. i understand his point of view that modern economies are undergoing a profound transition in the way they produce, transmit, store and use energy. however, my party and i cannot ignore the fact that the report agrees with the foolish concept of decarbonising europe’s economy and achieving climate targets as stated in the paris agreement. we cannot deny the importance of fossil fuel energy. first of all, human activity contributes only 3% to the global carbon cycle. secondly, coal use is on the increase globally and nothing we in europe can do will stop it. we hear a lot about china’s increase of, say, solar power but not so much about their increasing coal—fired generation. furthermore, the emissions savings achieved by renewables have been exaggerated. wind is intermittent and it requires conventional backup. that means that backup is run intermittently and inefficiently, which means more fuel and more emissions. things need to be done differently.
madam president, today is kashmir solidarity day. it is a time for us to reflect on the many kashmiris who are being killed, raped, tortured and injured and their fight for self—determination over the past 70 years. they are not asking for charity. they are asking for their rights, promised to them through un resolutions. the world cannot turn a blind eye to the grave human rights violations suffered daily in indian—controlled kashmir. the use of pellet guns on children as young as nine is despicable and has been condemned by amnesty international. their use must be banned and the public safety act needs to be reformed so that indian soldiers are accountable for their actions. we need change, progress and action, not just words, on this issue. if we cannot get justice for the kashmiris, then there will be no regional peace. markets and trade can never be more important than lives and human rights. i pay tribute to all those people that have given their lives to the cause and i salute the kashmiri resilience to this oppression. their sacrifices must never be forgotten and we need to support the occupied kashmiris to stop their persecution and suffering, as well as finally giving them their right to self—determination.
madam president, today i launched ‘the one thing’ campaign, aimed at giving young people a space to let us know the one thing that concerns them about brexit. this is especially important now, as the british prime minister has confirmed that britain will not be part of the customs union nor of a customs union. the december joint eu-british report on brexit is clear that there needs to be ‘full regulatory alignment’ between the north and south of ireland. the british government must now explain what the ‘specific solutions to address the unique circumstances of the island of ireland’ are. for sinn féin, this means designated special status; for the irish government it is designated special arrangements. whatever it is called, it must ensure that the north of ireland remains in the customs union and the single market. the assertion by sammy wilson of the democratic unionist party (dup) that a brutal brexit border would result in only a few checks on cross-border trade illustrates either gross ignorance on his part or an underlying desire to see just that, which is what i believe it is. it must be ensured that the current legal framework retains our rights, and it must be ensured that application of the charter of fundamental rights is also maintained. this is about upholding the good friday agreement in all of its parts.
madam president, the uk arts sector is a hugely significant industry, contributing over gbp 87 billion to our economy and providing jobs to more than two million people. it returns more than the automotive, oil and gas, aerospace and life sciences industries combined. our membership of the eu has been key to that success, with the majority of the sector voting to remain. so theresa may’s hard brexit will have a devastating impact on our creative industries. for example, music tours are programmed years in advance and the uk government’s negative position on key policy areas, such as membership of the single market and the customs union, is very damaging. already, we have seen two top orchestras leave britain because of brexit, relocating to belgium and italy, and more will follow. i recently attended the association of british orchestras’ conference in wales, where the sector made it clear that freedom of movement is vital. the costs of a hard brexit will fall directly on producers, with many tours becoming unviable, and this scenario will be replicated across the whole of the creative industries and mean fewer concerts by our favourite bands and musicians. as billy bragg says, ‘music can heal the wounds of brexit’. let’s ensure it can.
mr president, i would like to congratulate prime minister plenković on becoming prime minister and say that we still miss him on the committee on foreign affairs. i, too, regret brexit as a destructive act against the eu, which – no matter how much reform it requires – is still the greatest peace and prosperity project. alone, britain cannot face the common challenges of climate change, mass migration or international terrorism, for example. the uk’s decision now to leave the single market and customs union will also weaken both parties, and poses big problems at the irish border. i also hope that the uk can stay plugged into security and defence structures by cooperating closely with pesco, and as rapporteur of the parliament for montenegro, i also hope that the uk can stay engaged in joint projects in the western balkans. stability in the western balkans must be a common priority for all of us. lastly, i also see some merit in making european parliament elections far more relevant to the people by the spitzenkandidat process and the transnational lists. congratulations, and i think that croatia is a great member of the european union.
madam president, i am getting very concerned. we are supposed to have immunity in this house, but every single time, we seem to be removing the immunity of honourable members. i don’t care whether the person is a fascist, a communist, a democrat or whatever they are: i will go to the barricades to defend their rights. what worries me is that if you keep on lifting this immunity, the immunity itself becomes a farce, and there is no point in speaking freely in this house if you do not have the protection of this house. so can i encourage members – and could i ask you, madam president – that we should not continually remove waivers of immunity from people simply because he might be a member of the front national. it is simply not enough.
madam president, to what problem is this proposal a solution? we are talking about highly competitive developed markets where there is no evidence of market failure and where individual businesses are pricing according to what they regard as the most profitable way of doing it. why do we – sitting in this chamber with absolutely no idea of what those considerations and calculations are for individual enterprises – presume to tell them what their own pricing structure should be? there is a legitimate role for government in setting overall regulations. it is, i would say, legitimate, for example, for this chamber and for the european union as a whole to say that you shouldn’t discriminate against goods or services on grounds of nationality, that you are providing a level playing field for consumers, but this is going way beyond that measure – which, by the way, i think the uk should retain after brexit. this is telling individual companies that, regardless of what their own plans and their own profits show, they need to follow some arbitrary political criteria of ours rather than their own commercial considerations. guys, we are not the best people to decide that.
madam president, i voted against this provisional agreement because the european union emissions trading scheme has been an unmitigated failure. it has generated two billion excess tons of ozone damaging gases. it has generated 600+ million tons of excess co2 via the linking directive. it has created a eur 23 billion tonne windfall for the european union’s largest emitters. it has created the world’s biggest vat fraud and it has created a system of stolen credit netting hundreds of millions for organised crime. this provisional agreement, as usual, ducks the reality and promotes dangerous practices cloaked in commercial investment strategy, because the eu is compounded all of the problems i mentioned by strive towards alternative technologies for fossil fuel generation, notably carbon to help capture and storage, which are clearly demonstrated to be uneconomic and damaging. so, quite frankly, this was an appalling directive.
madam president, today is the international day of zero tolerance of female genital mutilation, a day with which to raise awareness of this barbaric practice. this appalling violation of the human rights of millions of women and young girls is being applied to our most vulnerable. there were 5 391 newly reported cases in the united kingdom for the period of 2016 to 2017. the nhs recorded that the most common age range for this vile practice were children between the ages of five and nine years old. however, we know that fgm is carried out on those as young as new-born girls. these are just the reported figures. the scale of this is far greater: 200 million girls and women globally have undergone fgm. this form of torture is damaging both physically, psychologically and can result in death. we cannot accept such a crime in the name of tolerance, political correctness or cultural sensibilities. this crime cannot go unpunished in the name of humanity.
madam president, hibo wardere is a somali-born british woman. at six years old, she was subjected to type 3 female genital mutilation (fgm), the most extreme form of cutting. fahma mohamed is a bristol teenager who, together with her friends and teacher, famously worked with integrate uk to take a stance against fgm by singing and rapping. i am proud of these women and others in my country who have overcome the stigma of fgm and who campaign to end the practice, whilst also fighting racism and islamophobia. fgm is a totally unacceptable practice, and in order to bring it to an end we must understand the complexity of the phenomenon. fgm is a part of a continuum of violence against women. it’s an extreme manifestation of patriarchy but it is not the only one. in order to eradicate fgm, it is important to view it as a form of violence against women and girls, and as one of the multiple avatars of society’s policing of women’s bodies and sexuality. fgm must also be understood as a cultural practice often viewed as beneficial for the victim. fgm is more common in families where the parents’ background includes a low level of education, and this demonstrates the importance of empowering women, not only when it comes to sexual and reproductive health but also from an economic, political and educational perspective. involvement in political and social processes is always beneficial but it holds particular relevance when it comes to ending all forms of violence against women and girls. lastly, we must bear in mind that fgm is practised in many countries, including in europe. in the uk, many girls are at risk of falling victim of mutilation. it is time the eu and member states embraced a real and viable strategy to end fgm on their territory, and therefore the ratification and implementation of the istanbul convention is our best hope. we must join up the dots and understand the reasons for all forms of violence against women and girls.
madam president, the oral question talks about the best way to mainstream fgm prevention. i would like to say that best way to do that is through prosecution, and i am going to do confine my remarks to that subject. in france, i understand, over 120 parents and two practitioners have been prosecuted in over 50 criminal cases. by contrast, in the uk no successful convictions have been brought to date, despite the existence of a specific female genital mutilation act, from 2005. we don’t see enough emphasis placed on securing successful prosecution. it is not enough to have legislation in place if it is not used. indeed, a landmark uk case collapsed due to lack of preparedness by the crown prosecution service. there is clear evidence that if a mother has been cut then a daughter has an 80% chance of being subjected to mutilation. these women are fellow europeans. their problems are our problems and i would ask you specifically, madam commissioner, to request information from member states on prosecutions and ask them why it is not happening quickly enough and what they are going to do to improve it. because, in my view this has been going on a long time, it is the only way we are going to make it stop. (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from patrick o’flynn)madam president, i make it a policy not to accept blue—card questions from ukip. i don’t give them any more oxygen.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i am very pleased to say, on behalf of the ecr, that much of the accepted thinking over the last year regarding the enlargement strategy has finally found its way into the official policy published this afternoon. all countries of the western balkans have a natural place in the european union and each of them shares a strong desire to join. fulfilling these ambitions must be a key priority in the coming decade. as rapporteur for montenegro, i am very pleased to see 2025 affirmed officially now as a target date for accession. the support for a merit—based regatta principle in which each country is assessed on its own merits and rights is also to be welcomed. montenegro is doing particularly well. the ‘more for more’ approach is vital to maintaining confidence in the process and to preserving the integrity of a rules-based approach. new eu member states should also not seek to discriminate against those still waiting in the queue to join over border issues. 2025 is some way off still, but we cannot ignore rising scepticism in some parts of the eu to all future enlargement, with particular concerns about corruption and organised crime, and we may even see one referendum on the issue in france. i sincerely hope that the uk, which has invested a lot of political capital in the stability of the western balkans over many years, is still able to carry on participating in joint eu projects post—brexit. the glue that holds the region together is euro-atlantic integration, and any disruption would have devastating consequences across the whole continent. my hopes had been raised that we were very close to securing a solution to the macedonia name question finally. i welcome the recent efforts from both sides’ governments on this matter, although it now seems that such hopes have been dashed by populist protest, which is deeply regrettable. but, nevertheless, the western balkans is a key part of our continent and they all belong in the european union in the future.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, it won’t surprise anyone in this chamber to hear me say that i oppose any further expansion of the european union into the western balkans. we have seen the damage that the european union has done in southern europe and further to the east. it is possible to be friendly, close and supportive to a nation without consuming and subjugating it, and this is something the commission should learn in its dealings with all european nations. this whole policy is, to my mind, nothing but naked imperialism or, as it is often described, neo-colonialism by other means. mr president, i am astounded that we are conducting this debate just a few hours after the european parliament released its strategy at 14.20 this afternoon. this lack of transparency would be more concerning to me, and indeed my constituents, had my country not taken the wise decision to leave.
o’flynn (efdd) – mr president, the prospect of eu membership for countries in line to become big net recipients from the budget can provide leverage over their conduct. if used wisely, this can foster a functioning democracy and other norms of an advanced society, so the potential is there for enlargement taking in the western balkans to be a good thing. but that potential is undermined by the eu’s determination to intrude ever further into a central national sovereignty. for example, commanding countries to take in large numbers of young men from africa or the middle east, which is naturally being resisted by newer members such as hungary. the eu should also have more regard as to the likely consequences of further enlargement for current members, notably greece and italy, which are already suffering under eu policy in the areas of migration and the currency union. were the eu a club of friendly advanced countries rather than a nascent superstate then the capacity of prospective membership to do good would be immeasurably improved.
mr president, president trump talks about military might, russia utilises it. what i like about this document is that, as commissioner hahn has indicated, it demonstrates that soft power can really work. it is the attraction of soft power, the attraction of the european union, that encourages the western balkans to go down the path of peaceful resolution of border disputes. it encourages them to continue on a democratic path, it encourages them to develop their human rights, and it encourages them to continue to promote the rule of law. it is a demonstration that the european union can make a real difference to real people’s lives. of course, it also demonstrates to the people of western europe and to the european union as a whole that membership is not a mere bauble to be handed out, that it has to be earned, and they can be reassured that the western balkans will only be allowed to join the european union if it meets our values and meets our expectations in terms of standards of behaviour.
mr president, the debate on the relationship between the eu and the western balkans must fully take into account the perspectives of citizens, and more particularly the younger generation. the high youth unemployment rate in western balkan countries – for example, more than 60% youth unemployment in bosnia and herzegovina – and the overall lack of opportunities has led to an unprecedented and ongoing brain drain which could deprive the country of an entire generation of well—educated young leaders. so offering economic and social opportunities to young people, including ensuring the better representation of women and girls in the labour market, must be the top priority at every level of government. but most importantly, the youth must be trusted and allowed to actively participate in the decisions that affect the future of their country. we must support the emergence of a generation of young balkans to lead their countries on this european path, and so that means we have to invest in people-to-people contacts, youth, culture and education.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i speak as chairman of the friends of zimbabwe in the european parliament. we can only welcome the overthrow of mugabe’s tyranny that took place last november, but i want to look forward now and there is indeed hope for the people of zimbabwe. the international community needs to help reinforce that hope. morgan tsvangirai was mentioned, and i want to put on record our admiration for morgan tsvangirai as the mdc leader who campaigned over so many years for democratic change in zimbabwe. he seriously ill at the moment. i hope i can speak on behalf of all parliament in saying we send our best wishes to him for a strong recovery. i wrote to emerson mnangagwa immediately before he became president urging him to initiate the much—needed political, economic and social changes to set zimbabwe on a fresh course. he must be assured that if he does the right thing then we will give zimbabwe every possible support, but we need to know that the zimbabwean authorities are indeed committed to a new path. that means action against political thugs. just four days ago joice mujuru and her supporters were injured by such thugs on their way to a political meeting in the glen norah suburb of harare. violence and intimidation has to stop. i am most encouraged by what ms mogherini had to say on the subject of support for the elections to make sure they are indeed credible elections, and indeed on an economic package. the possibility of zimbabwe rejoining the commonwealth is under active consideration. i very much hope the zimbabwean government will commit itself to this and it will be invited to send observers to the chogm meeting in london.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i am tentatively optimistic about the prospects for zimbabwe under this new administration. the former breadbasket of africa has been ruined by decades of misrule by a despot whose policies were built more on bitterness over old wounds than on optimism for zimbabwe’s ‘home together’. already there are signals coming from the government for a fair resolution to the farming issue, which i welcome. zimbabwe is a crucial cornerstone for the prosperity and security of eastern and southern africa. the situation is, however, delicate, and we must be sure not to rush ahead with unfairly high standards pressured onto zimbabwe, as the eu usually likes to do. if zimbabwe is to progress it must be allowed to do so at a reasonable pace, led by its own domestic society with region—led support from the southern african development community (sadc) and the african union. it would be a positive move for zimbabwe to rekindle its relationship with the commonwealth and build on the latent trade potential which an organisation of such historically and culturally close countries can provide.
mr president, i would like to agree with all my uk colleagues who have spoken on zimbabwe, and i have hope for that country too, but i do not want to talk about zimbabwe, i want to talk about human rights in south africa. we have spoken about zimbabwe so many times in this chamber, but why is south africa not on the agenda? south africa is the rape capital of the world and 109 rapes are recorded every day. in 2016, there were 42 000. they have one of the highest per capita murder rates in the world, with 52 murders every day. in 2017, there were 463 brutal farm attacks and 94 murders. so far in 2018, today, there have been 38 farm attacks, four murders – that is a 27% increase. but human rights is still not on the agenda. and racial discrimination. we all condemn that in this parliament, yet do you condemn the marxist anc’s black economic-empowerment programme that discriminates against white people because of the colour of their skin? and do you condemn the racially motivated farm attacks and murders from blacks and whites? why are we not having a discussion on the brutal attacks and the human rights abuses in south africa?
mr president, i would like to reinforce everything ms atkinson had to say about the south african farm murders. and having lived in zimbabwe in the 1970s i have witnessed how that country really can work to the benefit of all its citizens. so what needs to be done to get this show back on the road? first, repeal the law that requires 51% of a business to be owned by local people. this is restricting investment. second, privatise the coal and steel industries to raise some immediate cash for the government and allow investment to create jobs and exports. third, privatise the railways, which have virtually ceased to function. they will be needed to transport this new coal and steel. fourth, use the revenue raised from privatisation to compensate displaced white farmers in exchange for the return of their title deeds. fifth, offer the resultant vacant farmland on 99-year assignable leases to competent commercial farmers who can use these leases as security for borrowing. this borrowing will allow them to restart the farm, creating jobs, food and exports. ninety-five per cent of the potential workforce are unemployed. what good are nationalised industries doing them? zimbabwe is the perfect example of how to destroy a country through well-meaning socialist policies.
mr president, southern africa has, in the southern african development community (sadc), a structure that can support zimbabwe’s re-emergence as an important trading partner. i believe that support not just for zimbabwe but also for the surrounding states, such as botswana and zambia, will help zimbabwe to prosper both economically and politically. i urge zimbabwe to rejoin the commonwealth as soon as possible. intra-commonwealth trade, based on historic and cultural ties, can help zimbabwe to prosper and not to be in thrall to yet another exploitative eu free trade agreement, a fate that has already befallen many african countries to their detriment. i am optimistic about zimbabwe’s future, but we must work with them and certainly not dictate to them.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, turkey has been moving in the wrong direction for an eu candidate country for some time under president erdoğan and, sadly, the war in syria and the july 2016 coup attempt have provided ample opportunity for a more openly hostile approach by the ak parti to western democratic norms. we therefore see today a turkey that openly violates civil and human rights at home and pursues a foreign policy objective directly opposed to the aims of its eu and nato allies abroad. the situation in afrin is the starkest of those decisions yet, as only two days ago turkey announced in somewhat sinister terms that nearly 1 000 so-called terrorists had been neutralised since the assault began on 20 january. by ‘neutralised’, we are to read ‘surrendered’, ‘captured’ or ‘killed’. by ‘terrorists’, we are to read ‘members of the kurdish ypg’, who have been bravely fighting against isis across northern syria with the support of us troops, who continue to fight alongside the ypg. the americans have refused turkish requests to remove their troops, paving the way for a potential clash between turkish and us forces. such behaviour from a nato ally and eu candidate country is extremely concerning. finding a way back to the peace talks between ankara and the kurds in turkey will be one of the keys to normalising politics in turkey in future, but ahead of the presidential elections at the end of next year, such prospects seem a distant hope. furthermore, i hope that the welcomed re-election of president anastasiades of cyprus will lead to renewed reunification talks, where turkish cooperation is again vital but has, to date, been lacking. turkey has still not implemented the ankara protocols, recognised cypriot rights to gas exploration, or accepted that it must withdraw its occupying forces from northern cyprus. turkey must do more, and it must do more to support the goodwill that exists on that island – but, sadly, that looks very unlikely in my opinion.
madam president, i would like to take this opportunity to comment not just on turkish human rights abuses, but on turkey’s general disregard for interests other than those of turkey. for example, it would appear that us and turkish troops are on a collision course in manbij in syria, whilst us forces allied with kurdish and arab forces are battling against islamic state insurgents. the turkish government say that manbij is a prime objective in wiping out syrian kurds. turkey appears to be using the fight against islamic state to perpetrate further human rights abuses against the kurdish community, and appears to be willing to endanger a nato ally to achieve those ends. we should condemn not just turkish human rights abuses, but also strongly condemn president erdoğan, his destabilising of foreign policy and his quest to crush all opposition to his despotic rule.
mr president, since mid—december, the fighting in northern syria – both with airstrikes and ground operations – has forced thousands of people to flee. according to human rights watch, refugees who succeeded in reaching turkey have reported that turkish guards shot at them whilst they were attempting to cross the border. in some cases, syrian asylum seekers were denied medical assistance and forced to go back. as the military operations in idlib and afrin continue, the number of people in need of protection is only likely to increase. turkey launched a heavy offensive in the kurdish area, unilaterally and unprovoked. it must take responsibility and bear the consequences. this means respecting the principle of non-refoulement and keeping its borders open to refugees. turkey must meet its human rights obligations and guarantee humanitarian assistance to all. we should not accept any deviation from that.
mr president, over the past year the turkish government has been organising a very worrying crackdown against members of the political opposition and representatives of civil society. last week, we received the welcome news that taner kilic, chair of amnesty international, was released. however, the broader human rights and democracy situation generally continues to deteriorate, and there are still many political prisoners in turkey. so i ask the high representative and the eu member states to step up their diplomatic efforts to end the crackdown against civil society in turkey and push for the release of all political prisoners. as part of a project launched by the committee to protect journalists and human rights watch, i have been twinned with a kurdish artist and journalist best known for being the editor of jinha, a feminist kurdish agency with a staff consisting entirely of women. in 2016, turkish authorities prosecuted her with charges of terrorism for her journalistic activities, and after her release she was prosecuted again and jailed for posting a painting on social media depicting turkish tanks as animals. i deplore the turkish attacks on afrin: this region has been a beacon of hope amidst the general despair, with the kurdish people establishing new models of inclusive democracy that champion gender equality and pluralism as well as respect for the environment. we must do something.
mr president, economic stability and political stability are neither inextricably linked nor are they completely separate, but something between the two. they’re correlated, so i’ll focus therefore on the venezuelan economy. venezuela should, given its natural resources, be a rich country. yet the mistakes of the chavez regime and its over-reliance on food imports, compounded under maduro, led to this: to a society where gbp 100 couldn’t even buy you a dozen eggs; to 2000% inflation. and from a crumbling economy and from political idealism failing – as so often in history – flow human rights abuses. to the uk’s eternal shame, corbyn promoted venezuela as a shining example of socialism in action, rather than to read the warning signs that were there. but to save a country that is in such a state requires not idealism, but pragmatism. malaria, diphtheria and starvation in a nation with venezuela’s resources – or, frankly, in any nation – this should not be.
mr president, i say to commissioner hahn that i think we’re hearing a pretty united house here, concerned about the cost to unrwa and supporting the work which is being undertaken. most people have underlined that this is about humanitarian aid, not about politics. it is about aid to vulnerable people. these people have a face, they want a future and find themselves as refugees, including in syria today. this happens in many countries in the middle east, and that’s why i’m very disappointed that the united states has decided to cut this budget, because, by breaking with their traditional support for unrwa, they’re making political something which should not be so political. i hear what you say about how the eu cannot bridge the entire gap left by the united states, and that other countries have to step up. but we should also recognise that some of those countries – lebanon and jordan – are already dealing with the syrian refugee crisis as well. it is a difficult time and at a time when we’ve got a humanitarian crisis arising in gaza, in particular – archer is telling us about the appalling situation there. i think it is good that the eu has fast-tracked its payments. it is good that eu member states are doing the same. but we really must step up now. we must get other players to the table and get the funding guaranteed and get a long-term solution for unrwa, not just in the short term, but a long-term solution at the united nations so there is a secure funding base on which we can restart peace talks.
mr president, initially designed to be a temporary one—year programme, 65 years later it is a damning indictment of the international community that the united nations relief and works agency (unrwa) is still needed today. 5.6 million people are registered for services provided by unrwa and there are hundreds of thousands more not registered but who still need unrwa’s help. unrwa works to protect the rights of palestinians, rights that are routinely trampled on and discarded by israel, as illustrated in the case of ahed tamimi, a 17—year—old palestinian child who should be in school, not in a prison dungeon. yet we have the international community – disgracefully, i believe – lacking the political will to address the root causes of the conflict in palestine. given the lack of that will, it should at the very least work to protect the most vulnerable, and there is no doubt the children imprisoned in palestine have gone way past vulnerability. unrwa absolutely needs to be adequately funded and member states should increase their funding for the vital services it provides to millions and millions of people around the world.
mr president, the democratic decision to leave the european union will be implemented in every region of the united kingdom, including northern ireland. the committee on constitutional affairs recommends that following the uk’s exit a number of parliamentary seats will be redistributed. this is, of course, a matter for the european union. however, if, as some believe, brexit was driven by a democratic deficit, then the inclusion of transnational lists in this report will only entrench that position further. despite all of its grandstanding, sinn féin’s attempts to allocate three more seats to the irish republic to directly replace the seats lost when northern ireland leaves was rightly rejected in committee. that people living in northern ireland have a right to irish citizenship, and therefore eu citizenship, is effectively a statement of fact, but to infer that this confers voting rights is a political stunt with no basis in law or reality. the eu treaties make it clear that the rights of those holding an irish passport do not include voting rights unless ... (the president cut off the speaker)
the joint report on brexit from december says that the people of the north of ireland ‘who are irish citizens will continue to enjoy rights as eu citizens where they reside’. it also states there will be ‘no diminution of rights’, recognising that ‘rights, safeguards and equality of opportunity’ are important provisions of the good friday agreement and our peace process. only 50 years ago, the civil rights association in the north was campaigning for the right to vote. the brexit dup/tory agenda will result in the fundamental denial of people’s right to vote. in my lifetime, our rights have been denied by unionism and by the british government, and only recently the taoiseach said that we in the north will never again be left behind. so, the dublin government and the eu must stand up for, and with, the people of the north of ireland and make sure that the north of ireland has seats in the european elections.
mr president, welcome to the european union’s 2018 incarnation of georgia orwell’s 1984. this proposal completes the end-stage of the european union project – national sovereignty smothered and, finally, the first open, and equally transparent, step towards a truly federalist europe with a political governing body, with seats given to unelected, unselected meps occupying those transnational seats. the goal of the united states of europe as a concept is well documented. the extinguishing of national sovereignty is also well recognised. we now have absolute clarity, though, with this proposal and the dangerous and thoroughly anti-democratic suggestion of getting to that objective via transnational seats. the european union openly questions and frequently questions itself, asking why there is a democratic deficit among member states. you’ve only got to look to this report and the detail within it to answer that question.
mr president, we have a debate today about picking over the carcass of the folly of uk membership of the eu. we see all sorts of solutions and ideas being put forward to split up the seats that the uk will thankfully be vacating. the real thing that should be happening here is that those seats should be left empty. the truth of the matter is that when you put forward ideas such as transnational lists what you actually do is take the semblance, the pretence, of democracy even further from the citizens. it is hard enough to get around a huge region like my own in the west midlands and to be seen, and to let people know they have got a representative. do you really think you can represent people in different countries on the same mandate? it is, frankly, impossible and it takes it further and further from the people. of course, what has been achieved by the negotiations between the eu and the nest of traitors in the uk government is a period called the transitional period where, during that time, eu rules and regulations will apply. british taxpayers’ money will still come to the eu but we will have no representation whatsoever. these seats should remain empty as a monument to the absolute betrayal of democracy and of the british people that is taking place. this could not be further from the dream of governance for the people, by the people, of the people. it is not happening. the demos is not there. this is not democratic. you look to bring people to a parliament where, if there is any semblance of debate you have to hold up a card. it is then up to the president on the day whether or not it is accepted, and then it is up to the person to whom you are asking the question whether they are prepared to answer the question. how on earth can you kid anyone that this is democracy? quite frankly, the people of the united kingdom have seen what is going on and this year we, the people, in the united kingdom, will rise and in a democratic revolution we will say no to this, no to taxation without representation, and no to further treatment of the uk as a vassal state of the eu. the time is coming.
in writing. – this report states that the ‘distribution of the european parliament’s seats must follow the general provisions of article 14 of the treaty on european union’ and makes some useful suggestions as to how the allocation of seats might be improved in future. i represent scotland, where a majority voted to remain in the eu, and i regret that much of this report is based upon the likelihood that the uk will leave, thereby making 73 seats available for redistribution. considering the proposals on their merits, i support in principle the committee’s suggested redistribution of seats, which will correct some of the current distortions and improve on the degressive proportionality principle. i also support the idea of reserving the remaining seats for potential future enlargements of the eu. indeed i very much hope that scotland will choose to become a normal independent nation again, and perhaps make use of such an arrangement when we return as a fully-fledged eu member state. i am totally opposed to the notion of using some ep seats to create a transnational list, and i will vote in favour of the various amendments which seek to delete that principle from the report.
mr president, i was the rapporteur that introduced this particular rule into the rules of procedure many years ago. it has never been used before and i can confirm that your interpretation is exactly what was intended. (applause)
mr president, you have obviously put the cat amongst the pigeons among colleagues. perhaps a simple solution to this is that we actually take a vote on the proposal for a decision again.
mr president, the board said ‘four’.
madam president, this report is absolutely none of my business. the whole basis of the report is that by the time any of this actually happens, the united kingdom will not be in the european union. i believe that it would be unethical for me to cast any affirmative vote on this subject because it would be just as wrong for me to tell the european union what to do post-brexit as it would be for the european union to tell the uk what to do post-brexit. for that reason the record will therefore show that i abstained on everything throughout this report.
madam president, in 1946 winston churchill made a speech at the university of zurich, one bit of which is always quoted in this house. the section where he says that he wants something – ‘a kind of united states of europe’ is how he puts it. very few people quote what he goes on to say, which is that he hopes that britain and america, and maybe one day even the soviet union, will look on as friends and sponsors. i suspect he would rather approve of the proposal we have just voted on. the change, which means that britain is leaving, but that there is a more federal view of how european democracy happens after that. the two things indeed being linked, because the withdrawal of the british veto facilitates a number of these federalist measures. a year ago, this would have really bothered me. i would have railed against the idea and i would have talked about the national parliament being the focus of people’s loyalty. now, i wish our friends and neighbours every possible success. more than 70 years on, we are belatedly realising that great vision of a united europe with britain as a friend and sponsor.
madam president, for precisely the same reasons as on the previous report, i believe it would be wrong for me to cast any affirmative vote on this issue. i abstained on this throughout because this is none of my business as it will affect only the eu 27 and only post—brexit. i believe it is, of course, perfectly reasonable to hold an opinion on it, just not for my opinion to be foisted upon others. so, in that spirit of an opinion, i just have one brief word of caution regarding spitzenkandidaten. that is that this never worked well in the uk, not least because it could not be an issue because the uk has no meaningful voice from the largest political group in this place. there is a danger, therefore, that it ends up marginalising certain member states and i would urge parliament to consider carefully in future whether the current direction could end up having unintended consequences. again, i say this in that same spirit of cooperation and friendliness.
madam president, i believe that female genital mutilation is an abhorrent evil in our society, and indeed it is an evil wherever in the world it is practised. there are some words in this report which are not phrased in the way that i personally would have liked, but surely we can all agree that this evil must be stopped. wherever it happens in the united kingdom it must be prosecuted. those who are responsible for allowing something so appalling to happen must face justice. where parents fail to protect their children or if children are sent overseas for this to happen to them, there must be prosecutions. the law is the law, and the law must be enforced. too often, we have seen police forces turn effectively a blind eye to this, and that must be stopped. *****
madam president, i rise to place on record my objection to what happened today under rule 21 of the rules of procedure, which states that early termination of the office of a vice-president may ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, when we talk about socio-economic inequality, there are often two simple solutions that are offered, you either make the richer poorer, or you make the poorer richer, and i believe that actually what we should do is focus on pathways out of poverty. one of the most inspiring parts of my job in london, is meeting or helping the many local community projects tackling poverty in their local neighbourhoods. they are often inspired by local people who want to make a difference, so it is disappointing that when politicians or commentators talk about poverty, they tend to focus on what the state can or cannot do, or whether large ngos are effective or not, too often neglecting the inspirational local community projects in the hearts of our communities. though, in some ways, both the left and the right have failed the poor. while the left believe in top-down government, taxing people more to distribute more money to the poor via more public servants, more trade unions, etc., we all know of areas where lots of money has been spent over the years and we still see deprivation in those areas. but many on the right argue that poverty is best tackled by cutting taxes, creating more jobs with additional wealth trickling down to the poor, but they forget that the welfare state was created since private provision did not reach everyone. so while state welfare and large ngos do have a role to play, last month the ecr group held a global poverty summit which brought together local community projects from across the world to tell their inspiring stories of how they tackled poverty at a grass-roots level. so, whether the left call it cooperative socialism, or the right call it community conservatism or localist libertarianism, i hope that we can all pay more attention and champion the role of grass-roots anti-poverty projects in all our local communities, rather than top-down state or top-down wealth, and i see the left laughing and insulting these very many community projects. allow me on a personal note to end on that equality. i realise i am the first non-white leader of any political group in this parliament, but i’m still shocked by the lack of racial diversity not only in this house, but across all eu institutions, and if the eu is going to have any credibility on the issues of diversity and equality, it needs to get its own house in order. let us, across the political spectrum, reach out to young people in all our countries and tell them that whatever your colour, your gender, your religion, your orientation or your background, you should not be afraid to put yourself forward for public office. the eu is often accused of being a rich white man’s club. it is time to take action if the eu really wishes to live up to its motto of ‘united in diversity’.
madam president, the society that puts equality before freedom ends up with neither. we’re here again, talking about the european social pillar, one of my favourite subjects. it is a do-gooders charter. it is more intervention by the state into the lives of individual people and into businesses. it is the dead hand of the state pressing down upon all of our economies, seeking to alter and change things to suit the view of the elite in rooms like this. what about giving people equality of opportunity rather than equality of outcome? the poor do not want to be treated like clients of the state; the poor want to work their way to more prosperity. the reality is that when you hear the lover of the big state talking about equality, what they want to do is take all of our levels of income and bring them closer together and level it down. the lover of freedom doesn’t mind if we’re going up, as long as we’re going up. everyone’s level of wealth and income goes up according to their ability and their talents and their skills and their economic ability within their country. let’s make our people wealthier. let’s make the whole peoples of europe wealthier – and here’s the way we do it. we free them. we free them to have free market enterprise. we free them to express their talents and skills. we free them to make money, and we free the nation states so that each and every nation state can compete according to its ability, can make the right environment for its people to trade and make money in, and can each and every one of them unleash a real entrepreneurial spirit and allow the poor to get better conditions and more wealth for their families through hard work. free our people. free our nations, and wealth will come with free enterprise.
madam president, the real reason for the rising social and economic inequalities among european citizens is the eu’s open-door, uncontrolled mass migration from asia and africa of low-skilled and unskilled workers. this depresses wages and stresses social and health services to breaking point. many of them are at that point now. this is one of the main reasons why great britain is leaving the eu. our workers are angry. they are losing their jobs, and they are losing their health service. thanks to angela merkel’s open invitation to migrants, we have been importing real poverty at a time when labour is being replaced by robotics and computers throughout europe. this has led to violence, social disruption and racism. look at what is happening in sweden. the euro, which is essentially a soft deutschmark, has impoverished the people of southern europe and created mass unemployment in spain – as you, ms rodrigues, know – and in portugal, with financial collapse and eu direct rule in greece and the removal of their freely elected government. the european union fears brexit, really fears it. britain is a free-market alternative to the eu’s economic model which is, on the other hand, an east-european-style socialist command economy that has failed miserably over the last 50 years. why would you want to return to this? why must so many people in this place – many of you who worked for east european totalitarian regimes – want to return to that human misery? why? why won’t you learn? britain will sit on the eu’s doorstep, and show your system up for the sham that it is. we will attract other countries, such as hungary, poland and the czech republic, to come and join us and see what a real free arrangement of sovereign nations is all about.
mr president, we heard from a previous speaker about whether the eu institutions had been involved on romania. my understanding is that romania has been working to achieve the process of judicial reform since the accession treaty and that the institutions have been continually involved. we have a debate today; the justice minister will come before the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs shortly; and i agree with those colleagues who say it would be better if he were in a position to answer many of the detailed criticisms today, but i understand the rules. i broadly agree with what ms fajon and ms in ’t veld were saying, which is that we should acknowledge what progress has been made. we should acknowledge that this is not a black and white debate and we should acknowledge, of course, that are now clear and pending issues and criticisms. but there should be room now for dialogue and i think most sensible people in this debate would understand that. there are still the pending issues but self-criticism has been made and, with an independent constitutional mechanism in place, romania can display, and has displayed, a willingness to have viable institutional dialogue.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. – mr president, a year ago the house backed my proposal to establish stronger ties with the private sector, marking a revolution in eu development financing, a new way of mobilising private capital, key to wealth creation and the fight against global poverty. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development on this proposal, i supported the overall increase in the eu guarantee from eur 27 billion to eur 32.2 billion in order to address the root causes of migration. as part of the external investment plan, together with the eib, this marshall plan for africa is of paramount importance in implementing the shift from global grants to loans, promoting investment rather than handouts. international development is not just about eliminating poverty, it is also about delivering security, stability and economic opportunities to poor and fragile communities, thereby preventing citizens from having to flee their home country in search of a better life. for the west – eager to stem the flow of refugees and migrants from africa and the middle east – supporting development is a much more effective approach than building walls and razor-wire fences.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i want to thank the rapporteur, ms gardiazabal rubial, and also mr siegfried mureşan, who chaired the trilogues, for their very constructive work. following fruitful cooperation among the three eu institutions, i believe we have finally agreed an excellent compromise. the commission welcomes the agreement on the compromise package, which was approved successfully by the committee of the permanent representatives (coreper) on 1 december and by the committee on budgets on 4 december by a large majority. this compromise will allow the european investment bank to continue rapidly implementing its economic resilience initiative in support of the southern neighbourhood and the western balkans and to continue supporting eu external policy objectives in eligible countries. as soon as adopted, the text will enable the eib to contribute rapidly to the new objectives by providing up to eur 2.3 billion of additional financing to private sector beneficiaries. the increase of eur 5.3 billion in the size of the eu guarantee fund over the period 2014-2020 will also reinforce substantially the eib’s capacity to grant loans in the neighbourhood, as well as in asia and latin america. it will allow the eib to act effectively in line with eu external policy priorities. the compromise will increase the flexibility for the eib to switch amounts under the regional ceiling allocations from the current 10% between regions to 20%, but only in the direction of high priority regions for the union, in particular, ukraine and migration-response-related regions or any forthcoming challenges within the remaining part of the mandate 2014-2020. the climate-change dimension of the mandate is also reinforced. it includes an increase of the target from 25% to 35% of total eib financing operations outside the eu by the year 2020. on taxation and non-cooperative jurisdictions, the compromise text will align with provisions agreed for the efsi 2.0 and the european fund for sustainable development legislative files. the outcome is very welcome and reflects successful negotiations. as regards asset management, following negotiations in council and parliament, a cross-file compromise was agreed. the eib will continue to undertake the asset management of the guarantee fund while the commission will do the asset management of the new european fund for sustainable development guarantee fund. it was agreed to review the situation in 2019. honourable members, i want to thank you for your excellent cooperation. this is a big step forward and it enables us to be more efficient in order to achieve our external policy goals.
president of the european investment bank. – mr president, it is a great pleasure to be here today on the occasion of the formal adoption of the european investment bank’s revised external lending mandate (elm), which is a key tool for the bank’s activities outside the european union. i will take the opportunity to thank the members of the committee on budgets, in particular the rapporteur, madam gardiazabal, and commission vice-president katainen for their excellent cooperation on this difficult matter. the mid-term review of the elm began in 2016 and i’m pleased to say it once again recognised the elm as a highly efficient instrument that allows the eib to deliver external and development action with real impact on the ground and at a minimal cost to the eu budget. the increase in both scope and size of the revised mandate is, i hope, a sign that you as co-legislators believe in our ability to deliver eu foreign-policy goals under this mandate. i thank you for this endorsement and for your support in ensuring the elm was adapted in such a way as to allow the bank to deliver in supporting new and continuing priorities outside the eu up until 2020. some key changes have been made to the elm to allow us to address better the latest eu external priorities. we have been called upon to give particular support to countries outside the union affected by migration, whether host countries, countries of transit or countries of origin. significantly, the scope of the guarantee has been extended to allow coverage for private-sector lending operations under our new economic resilience initiative, allowing the bank to take more risk in this area. this is fundamental to the success of the resilience initiative in the southern neighbourhood and the western balkans. the overall increase in the elm ceiling from eur 27 billion to eur 32.3 billion will also help us meet our objectives under the economic resilience initiative while at the same time ensuring that we continue to meet ambitious lending levels across all regions covered by the mandate. we have demonstrated our ability to react to evolving eu priorities, not only with the resilience initiative but also when we increased our lending to ukraine to eur 3 billion over three years as part of the union’s special support package to ukraine. and we have stepped up considerably our support for climate action. having committed to providing a minimum of 25% climate action financing (and, by the way, we did 27-point-something in 2017), at 33% for external lending we are already almost reaching the objective of getting to 35% by 2020. so we are on a very good track in this respect. we’ve also supported additional requirements for the bank in terms of transparency and accountability, and i know how important this is to the members of the european parliament. this is particularly the case in the fields of tax avoidance, fraud and evasion, non-compliant jurisdictions, the prevention of money laundering and the fight against terrorism. i want to assure you that we take these requirements seriously and i will speak more about them later in the debate on the eib’s annual report. no sooner have we finalised the revision of the elm that will take us to the end of the current multiannual financial framework than we now have to prepare the landscape for eu spending post 2020. i look forward to exchanges with you on this in the coming months. i can already say with confidence that, given the success of the elm to date and its ability to leverage investments to an order of 30-40 times the budget provisioning required, i’ve no doubt that it will continue to be a key tool for the eu post 2020.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the external investment plan was set up with the aim of tackling the root cause of migration by helping to achieve development goals in third countries through loans and grants, financing projects to create jobs. this is another version of the idiotic juncker plan which is economically daft. it is a plan to pump-prime businesses with government money. when will the eu learn that this does not work? governments do not create jobs. businesses create jobs, and those sort of false jobs are unsustainable. give these third world countries trade deals not handouts. we need to give these people trade deals so that they can create businesses themselves. as for today’s ludicrous inclusion of tunisia on the financial blacklist, mr president, for money laundering or something of that ilk: they have done a lot to stop it but they have been included on this list and it is going to damage tunisian businesses and send waves of migrants to europe. what can be more ridiculous? over the past 10 months the european investment bank (eib) has given 136 loans, worth seven billion, to finance projects in non-eu countries, making trade much easier than throwing away money. at the same time, the european investment bank owes britain gbp 35 billion and refuses to pay this bill in 2019. we want our money back. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think i can manage, i am big enough and ugly enough to manage it. well, thank you for your question. well, ‘idiotic’ – perhaps i was being very naughty. perhaps i shouldn’t have said ‘idiotic’. perhaps ‘economically illiterate’ might have been better, so i hope you'll excuse me, i should use the word ‘economically illiterate’, but the juncker plan was economically illiterate, as illiterate as these plans that you're trying to put forward at the moment. thanks again for your question.
blue-card question. – i thought i would do the honour of giving you a question as well, since you were so kind as to ask one of me. don’t you see the problem – that handing money to people to create fake businesses is simply a waste of the taxpayers’ money? what you should be doing is helping to encourage trade, and you should know this, sir, because you lived in an east european country, which was dominated by socialism and communism for the best part of 50 years. that experiment was a catastrophe in russia and a bigger catastrophe in eastern europe. it led to authoritarianism, dictatorship and robbing people of their savings. how can you come here and promote the same nonsense?
president of the european investment bank. – mr president, it is a great pleasure to be back today for the second time and to thank again the rapporteur and the co-rapporteur for their excellent work and cooperation. i notably appreciate the explicit support you give to the european investment bank in its role as a catalyst for investments to support growth and jobs, both within and outside the european union. in 1958, the european union was already in full swing – or the european economic community was in full swing – when the bank was founded and began its work on the basis of the treaty of rome, and i can tell you that we celebrate the 60th anniversary of the bank with pride and with thanks and appreciation for the support received from this house. in the past 60 years we’ve operated in 160 countries, we have engaged in close to 12 000 operations globally and dispersed over eur 1.1 trillion. and this has mobilised up to eur 3 trillion of investment, a very efficient use of eu resources. a good deal by the way! after all, only around eur 14 billion was ever paid in, in cash, by the member states, a little more than 1% of the total investment this bank has contributed to generating. so it has been a good 60 years – and i believe that if we are the ‘good news’ institution of the european union we should tell the good stories. the largest share of eib group financing, close of eur 30 billion, last year went to small and medium-sized and mid-cap enterprises, the backbone of the european economy and jobs. we estimate that this financing sustained 3.9 million jobs in more than 285 000 firms. one area where europe is lagging behind in terms of investment is the innovation sector, so i am particularly proud of the fact that in 2017 we managed to increase lending for innovation to close to eur 14 billion –that is at the heart of competitiveness and ultimately of sustained and sustainable growth. moreover, in 2017 we financed close to eur 7 billion in environmental projects and eur 18 billion in infrastructure. the eib once again met its target for climate action, with approximately eur 19 billion of financing, representing over 27% of total eib financing in 2017. but what i really want to draw your attention to is this. in 2017 we approved more projects than ever – 901, roughly a 15% increase from the previous year – but the average size of the projects we financed is considerable smaller than previously. this means that we are enabling more and more firms and public entities to invest, and we are also getting better at assessing our impact on gdp and jobs. as the report from the commission’s institute in seville points out, eib-group-supported investments in 2015 and 2016 alone are expected to create 2.25 million extra jobs and to generate a 2.3% increase in the eu gdp by 2020. a big part of why we are able to do this is the investment plan for europe, the juncker plan, which, as you know very well, is backed by a guarantee from the eu budget and the eib’s own resources to finance riskier investments. i have already talked about this plan and we are very grateful that, with parliament’s decision in december, it has been extended to the end of 2020 with an increased goal of mobilising eur 500 billion. by the end of 2017 we had approved 717 european fund for strategic investments (efsi) transactions, mobilising eur 257 billion, or 82% of the original eur 315 billion target. that means we are well on track to reach the goal in the coming months. the efsi is working, and it’s working well. additionality is key. three out of four efsi clients are new to the bank and this clearly demonstrates how much the efsi has changed the eib group. it has changed our dna! most efsi operations are higher risk, so-called special activities. the efsi is a great example of what the eib, the eu bank, can do to help scarce human resources achieve more. it is a spectacular endorsement of the fact that the paradigm shift from grants and subsidies to loans and guarantees is a very strong tool in europe’s public policy toolkit, and we should now think about the lessons to be learned from the efsi plan, inside the european union, in relation to our activities outside the european union. and we already discussed the sustainable development goals and the climate goals in the previous debate. for this reason, we are engaged in extensive dialogue with the member states, the commission and this house to make financial instruments more effective in the union’s multiannual financial framework (mff) post 2020. the report also stresses how important it is that eib continues to be a financial institution of good practice, leading by example. i can assure you that we are continually in contact with other international financial institutions, international organisations and relevant authorities to ensure that we apply best banking and accountability principles. in preparation for this plenary debate we provided you with the state of play on the recommendations tabled through the previous report. i am open to discussing how future arrangements could work even better, and we will, of course, continue to inform you regularly on our activities and their impact on the ground. thank you very much for your attention. i’m looking forward to the debate. and again, thank you for your support.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, first of all let me highlight our excellent partnership with the european investment bank (eib) – the eu bank, as president hoyer rightly likes to call it – on the financial implementation of our political priorities. the eib is an indispensable partner in financing infrastructure, supporting smes, boosting employment and delivering on climate action, sustainable transport and external policies. the commission welcomes the report and i would like to congratulate the rapporteur again on a good job. allow me to restrict myself to three issues of particular relevance to the commission. first, on compliance, which features prominently in your report: the commission has taken action to prevent the use of eu funds in support of projects that contribute to tax avoidance or tax evasion. let me stress that there was already, in the financial regulation, a prohibition on support for projects leading to tax evasion but the commission has proposed to extend it to include tax avoidance in its scope. rules have already been adopted to this effect in respect of the european fund for strategic investments (efsi) and european fund for sustainable development regulations and the external lending mandate decision. a similar approach is expected to be included in a new financial regulation still under discussion by the legislators. therefore, the commission welcomes the calls to enhance compliance on tax matters. we are currently preparing guidelines that will provide clarity on the new legal provisions linked to non-cooperative tax jurisdictions. in that regard the commission expects that the eib will improve its internal policies to reflect the new legal environment. the second point is on geographical balance and cohesion. the size of the national economies, by definition, influences the volume of eib activities. in relative terms, however, smaller member states benefit more than it appears at first glance. with the efsi, for instance, the top five beneficiaries in terms of gdp are estonia, greece, bulgaria, portugal and spain. but the commission takes concerns about coverage and geographical balance very seriously. efforts are ongoing to place more emphasis on using local knowledge and cooperating with local and regional actors. the commission and the eib are working very closely with national and regional promotional banks, which have local expertise and understand the local financing needs. the revision to the financial regulation will make it easier to combine financial instruments and efsi financing with other sources of eu funding such as the structural funds. this should lead to more projects in the regions less covered so far. furthermore, under the efsi, the european investment advisory hub provides more targeted technical assistance at local level and the commission encourages the eib to extend its local outreach. finally, in relation to the number and types of financial instruments under the next multiannual financial framework (mff): as you know, the commission is currently working intensively on the next mff. we share parliament’s concern about the multiplication of financial instruments and especially the complexity of the rules that apply them. we want to continue providing support to all sectors that are in need of eu support, but we need to do so more efficiently under a single rule. the partnership with the eib will remain a central pillar in delivering these financial instruments. it will be shaped by our successful common history and also by constructive criticism from parliament and other stakeholders. today’s report forms an essential part of that input.
blue-card question. – there is considerable concern about eib investments that may lead to increased carbon dioxide emissions. a recent example is yesterday’s announcement of a eur 1.5 billion loan for the trans adriatic pipeline, which will lock us into a fossil fuel future. since we are all now agreed that the eib has to work within the framework of our paris commitments, would mr mureşan agree that we should have no further fossil investments by the eib?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, with the commission focusing its attention on sustainable finance in 2018, it’s important to recall that the eib is a key actor in the successful implementation of the commission’s upcoming action plan. however, the eib has not done as well as we would expect on climate action, even though it has just met its 25% target. for instance, in 16 eu member states, eib support for climate action did not reach even the level of 20%. climate action investment in 2016 was predominantly located in the eu’s stronger economies, and this seems to be the rule rather than the exception. seventy per cent of efsi support for renewable energy was concentrated in just one country, belgium, while 80% of energy efficiency within the efsi was allocated to france, finland and germany. these aren’t the countries that need the sort of support from this investment bank, and we need to spread the renewable investment wider and to the other economies in europe. to ensure sustainability of investment in coordination with the commission, the eib needs to evaluate their national and collective public investment to ensure that the eu is on track to meet its climate change goals as agreed in paris within the next five years. in order to achieve this the eib should only agree future lending compatible with the 1.5 °c climate limit.
blue-card question. – mr zanni, i’d like to ask you what you think about this: britain is owed somewhere in the region of gbp 35 billion, which obviously we want back in 2019. what do you think that’s going to do to the bank’s finances, and will they be able to pay it back? have they got the money? because we want it back – they’re certainly punishing britain as hard as they can, so let’s punish them. do you think we should, sir? give me an answer; you’re italian.
mr president, i thank ms gardiazabal rubial for a very thorough report. it demonstrates well the value of an investment bank driven not solely by the need for commercial return but also by the urgent need for investment in the parts that commercially driven investment banking cannot reach. there are always areas in which the market will fail and there will always be projects that cannot be delivered by the market alone, and that is where the contribution of the european investment bank (eib) will remain essential. the priority areas for the eib’s operations – innovation and skills, smes, climate and the environment and our infrastructure – encompass some of the most important priorities of the european union budget. the low-carbon economy and the shift from the internal combustion engine will require substantial investment across the union in power network infrastructure. the completion of a digital single market that enables rural as well as urban communities to engage will require substantially different forms of infrastructure investment, which will represent the changing face of cohesion policy. these real needs will require a european investment bank that is agile as well as forward-thinking. unfortunately, the united kingdom, which has a 16% stake in the eib’s capitalisation is intending to leave the european union but, however long it may take to refund the uk’s stake, it is worth remembering that the uk has received more than eur 30 billion in investment from the eib. what a pity that will come to an end! (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – thank you mr howarth, it is always fascinating listening to you, but i do believe you’re from the north east, am i correct?
blue-card answer. – was that the question? i was originally. i represent the south east.
blue-card question. – you represent the south east. well, how are you going to explain to the people who elected you – the ordinary working people of britain – that you do not want our eur 35 billion back? that’s a lot of hospitals, that’s a lot of infrastructure, that’s a lot of nurses. how are you going to explain that, sir? they have decided to leave. try and explain it to me, sir. i’d love to hear.
blue-card answer. – first of all, i will not allow mr coburn to put words into my mouth. i have never said that i do not want the european investment bank to return the british investment stake in it, but it has to be able to return that stake over a period in which the loans that the uk has received – which, as i have already told him, are worth gbp 30 billion – are amortised, and therefore you will find that the return in that stake and the other things cancel each other out. when you talk about ordinary people, let’s talk about what this investment has delivered – like secondary schools in exotic places like yorkshire; like crossrail in london and the thames valley in my constituency; like the thames tideway tunnel; like smart meters for seven million homes in the united kingdom, which enables those people to save energy and pay less for their energy. why will you not join me in backing the uk’s continued involvement with this investment bank, if and when we do leave? (applause)
mr president, according to the rubial report which we have discussed today, the european investment bank (eib) is considered to be the financial arm of the eu and the key institution that sustains public and private investment in the eu. the european investment bank is owned by the eu taxpayers; the united kingdom represents 16% of the eib capital. although it is one of the largest shareholders since article 50 has been triggered, the european investment bank only guaranteed three loans worth gbp 285 million to british projects. over the same period, the eib gave more than 700 loans to other eu member states. this funding was worth more than gbp 40 billion. in the meantime, mr hoyer, as president of the eib, stated in the german press that we will not get back our capital – an equivalent of almost gbp 35 billion – before 2054. this is a scandal. british taxpayers want their money back – not in 2054, not in 2021, after the transition period that the prime minister is advocating, but at the end of march 2019: on the day we leave the eu. we would like it back before the eib squanders it on flaky projects. and, mr howarth, the money that was spent by this is our money. we contributed it, so we are just getting our own money back.
mr president, good evening sir, good evening chamber and thank you very much for the opportunity to address you. well, what did we actually learn from this report? what are the financial activities actually being conducted? let me start with a very simple list. the eib has involved itself in geopolitics, notably in the ukraine, stirring up tensions there. it has also involved itself in offshore vehicles and some rather unsavoury, always interesting the word unsavoury, counterparties inside and outside of europe. small wonder then, that well over 100 cases, on public record i would remind you, of alleged fraud involving eib funds are opened every year. now for decades the eu has disguised the true size of its budget via funding from the european investment bank. the eib is supposedly mandated to only lend to projects which were in line with the objectives of the eu. yet its portfolio has ballooned to well over eur 500 billion and this doesn't include the 500 billion the eib manages on behalf of the juncker fund. in short, the eib has extended its reach to eight times the size of the stated eu budget. were it a school report, could do better i think would be the result.
mr president, shrinking space is a trend that can be observed globally. for instance, in israel, the situation of human rights defenders and civil society organisations has severely deteriorated in the past few years. in addition to systematic human rights violations by the state of israel in the occupied palestinian territory, the israeli government has now launched a violent crackdown against civil society. the recent ban on bds-supporting organisations from entering the country is an additional attack on freedom of expression in israel, and although i am not in favour of a total boycott of everything israeli, i find it very important that the organisations that do support it are able to say it. i have been personally targeted by some of these right-wing attacks on freedom of expression. ngo monitor has targeted me and my staff because i called them out and exposed their far-right anti-human rights agenda. under the pretence of transparency concerns, they have managed successfully to attack organisations that work to end human rights violations in the occupied territories – and that includes representatives from breaking the silence, the organisation that gathers testimonies from ex—idf soldiers against the occupation.
mr president, women human rights defenders face gender—specific threats and obstacles and need to be protected accordingly. the multiplication of feminicides against women human rights defenders in the last few years has been a devastating example of the need for safety measures to protect them. in iran, the women human rights defender atena daemi has been in prison for years for her work on women and children’s rights. on 24 january, she and her colleague golrokh iraee were beaten in prison and transferred. they are now on hunger strike to protest their treatment. the woman’s right defender mansoureh behkish could spend 11.5 years in prison for her work with mothers of imprisoned or executed people. after years of harassment and imprisonment, she now faces a heavier sentence. so the eu and all member states must push for all these women to be set free. and one last word about taking into account the obstacles faced by trans and queer human rights defenders: they often face the same threats as women, but they are not visible in our policies or our discourse, and their safety in general is an issue that is not addressed.
madam president, i think during my entire lifetime this has come up, and probably in most member states you’ll have heard this over the years: should we change the clocks or not? just a point for my colleagues: as somebody who was formally in the airline industry, believe me, jet lag isn’t a clock moving forward or back one hour, twice a year. jet lag is something completely different. i think the original directive was quite logical in terms of harmonising the biannual change, so clearly at least we changed the time at exactly the same time throughout europe and throughout the european union. i’m personally totally unconvinced by the scientific reports which, quite frankly, are inconclusive. furthermore, on the grounds of subsidiarity, this must be a member state decision and should not be a decision made by the european union and imposed on member states. a proposed assessment by the commission in my view is a complete waste of taxpayers’ money at a time when there are far more important issues which we should be focusing upon in europe. i therefore say, certainly on behalf of my delegation, that we shall not be supporting these proposals – despite all of the hard work done by colleagues.
author. – madam president, as egypt makes its transition to democracy, it faces a very serious internal security threat, as illustrated by the large number of devastating isis terrorist attacks that were seen across the entire country, particularly in the sinai and aimed at the copts. as we have seen in our own countries, finding the balance between ensuring security and honouring civil liberties in these circumstances is always difficult. nevertheless, we are right to raise our human-rights concerns with such an important international partner. the continuing use of military courts for trying civilians, the reported use of torture to obtain confessions and the increasing use of capital punishment are all causes for grave concern. finally, i would like to welcome the calls in the resolution today for further investigation into the killing of italian researcher and british resident, giulio regini, and the call for greater cooperation in this regard from the egyptian authorities.
madam president, when we debated egypt last october the commission outlined the aspirations of the egyptian people for security, for democracy and economic growth. i had real reservations about the nature of our partnership then, and have even more so now. we raised our concerns about gross human rights violations, but how does the sisi regime respond? almost 30 egyptian civilians executed in a month; 24 sentenced to death by military courts. therefore my questions to the commissioner are, will you clearly outline the repercussions if the egyptian authorities fail to impose an immediate moratorium on the use of death penalty, and review legislation to meet fair trial standards? when will member states take measures to stop companies selling equipment to egypt that helps them repress their citizens. and how will we insist that march elections in egypt are free and fair, and leverage our eur 11 billion in aid, if we are not even drawing a line in the sand on capital punishment, a key objective of our human rights policy?
author. – madam president, heaven knows haiti has its problems. years of corruption, natural disasters and earthquakes would test any country, so what is unique to haiti? what is holding them back? my first speech to this house was after the 2010 earthquake, when children were being sold into slavery. but today we still see the terrible plight of children there. haiti has half a million children at risk, in slavery and being trafficked. the haiti custom known as restavek holds the most vulnerable children as slaves and servants for host families. so what is the haitian government doing to protect these children? well, when a government’s budget puts more into cleaning offices than providing health services, you know something is wrong. corruption is endemic and this has to change. poverty, unemployment, poor health services and lack of education must cease to be the reality for haitians. after all, on the other side of the island, in the dominican republic things are not so bad. so it cannot just be geography. the children of haiti deserve care, education and protection from their government. this house needs to send a strong signal, and i urge you, colleagues, to support this motion.
member of the commission. – madam president, the protection of children’s rights is a top priority in our external action worldwide, in particular in development and humanitarian aid. we have been actively engaged in the fight to end child labour, boost access to education and, of course, strengthen children’s rights. i totally agree with you regarding the powerful role of education in such difficult conditions on the ground, and that is why, as commissioner, from the beginning of my term of office i decided to increase our budget for education in emergencies eight times. it is quite important to realise that sometimes, in such conditions, education is the only way to protect children. in this regard, haiti is no exception. the haitian population – and in particular, the most vulnerable groups, including children – have been particularly affected by natural disasters and instability. we are also fully aware of the so-called restavek practice, which exposes children to exploitation, sexual abuse and isolation, condemning them to illiteracy and perpetuating poverty. the european union is very sensitive to these major human rights issues and that is why among our top priorities for cooperation with haiti is the promotion of education and human rights, with several programmes under the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) aimed at fighting these practices, which are shameful, frankly speaking. children’s rights are also one of the priority issues for the periodical eu political dialogue with the haitian authorities. we, as the european union, clearly intend to maintain and further increase our involvement in this issue. at the most recent political dialogue, which took place in port-au-prince on 30 january, we conveyed our concern regarding the precarious situation of children and their rights. in particular, we reiterated the need to follow up on the latest universal periodic review recommendation in this regard. two eu projects, each worth eur 0.5 million, have been approved: one focusing on access to justice and legal protection for children, and the other dealing with the protection of children in urban areas near the border with the dominican republic where, unfortunately, there is a higher incidence of child trafficking. these projects will be implemented until 2020. the european union will also continue to advocate the ratification and effective implementation of relevant international conventions such as the un convention on the rights of the child, international labour organisation (ilo) convention 182 on the worst forms of child labour, and ilo convention 138 on the minimum age for admission to employment. these are our activities in order to alleviate the suffering of children in haiti. thank you for your attention.
mr president, i note that we are discussing the european investment bank, but we have not discussed the fact that the british are owed 35 billion and we would like our money back. that means that all the stuff they are talking about is irrelevant and it has to be looked at again.
mr president, i welcome this report. the far snazzier 378 new carriages for trains in east anglia is thanks to eur 60 million from the european investment bank, the amazing facilities at stanford-le-hope superport in london gateway (eur 100 million), the galloper wind farm off the suffolk coast (eur 225 million), and schools across luton and hertfordshire, like westfield academy in watford (eur 63 million). that is what being part of the european investment bank has meant for the east of england, and i say ‘long may it continue’. i hope that the uk government takes note that the investment bank’s aaa credit rating is higher than its own and so prioritise britain’s continuing to maintain the closest possible relationship into the future, so that our companies can continue to finance big-ticket infrastructure projects.
mr president, i supported the resolution on human rights in turkey, but i want to focus on afrin, where turkey is justifying its intervention as self-defence against terrorism. yet there has been no attack from afrin on turkey. this is a blatant violation of international law, with turkish bombs targeting hospitals, civilians and children. turkey is even teaming up with the jihadist militia to kill kurdish fighters, who have been our key allies in pushing back the daesh. language used by authorities on social media reeks of ethnic cleansing, leaving little room for doubt about the turkish agenda, and this is yet another blow to the geneva process. we need to break silence on the turkish invasion – not only in the un, but also in nato – ensure humanitarian access to afrin and put this high on the agenda of the upcoming syria donor conference, and adopt a leading role on syria, bringing the geneva process back to the forefront and making the eu strategy adopted last year worth its name.
mr president, when i was growing up in south america in the 1970s venezuela was the country that people emigrated to in order to get away from poverty and oppression. how quickly the application of socialism can turn a prosperous, functioning, modern economy into a disaster zone! 800% inflation, running out of food and basic medicines – and, incredibly, documented cases of malnutrition. all the way through the chavez experiment we had voices on the left in this house and in the national governments cheering it on and saying that it should be a model for our european governments. now, suddenly, it wasn’t socialism at all – it was sort of an experiment that went wrong, like all of the others, like yugoslavia, like romania, like cuba, china, russia. it’s always wonderful until it goes wrong, and then it was ‘never proper socialism in the first place’. invariably the pattern is the same, with the displacement activity we just heard to the effect that, you know, something else bad is happening in honduras and therefore we shouldn’t care at all. the reality is it was perfect textbook socialism control of an economy that reduced a once—wealthy country to poverty and dirt. when are we going to learn the lesson? (applause from certain quarters)
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, on behalf of the enf group i would like to make a request to change the agenda by having a joint debate on jihadists. specifically, we wish to replace the debate on thursday morning ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, on behalf of my group, we wish to replace the debate on thursday morning on the nart report, on cutting the sources of income for jihadists, with a joint debate on jihadists, comprising the debate on the nart report, from the committee on foreign affairs (afet), and council and commission statements on jihadist brides returning to europe. the reason for this is that frontex last week estimated that there are a thousand jihadi brides planning on returning to our continent. these people have given up their right to their citizenships, be they french, german, british, swedish – they have revoked their citizenship rights. they have rejected our way of life and frontex says they are an evolving threat: they are terrorists pure and simple and they should not be allowed back onto this continent. if you don’t want more jihadist terrorism in your countries i suggest you agree to this urgent debate. as gavin williamson, the conservative uk defence secretary, said, a dead terrorist can’t do any harm.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, with the defeat of isis, which is undoubtedly led by war criminals, the conflict in syria has now finally reached the end game. as turkey continues its own offensive against afrin as a means to prevent any semblance of kurdish governance along its borders, we now see the assad regime seek to defeat the remaining rebel strongholds across syria. the offensive in eastern ghouta on the outskirts of damascus, home to some 400 000 civilians, is the latest target. it is those civilian, including women and children, who are being killed on a daily basis by bombings, that we must keep upmost in our minds at this time. it is they that will bear the brunt of this brutal seven—year tragic conflict. i too welcomed the recent un security council resolution imposing a ceasefire to allow for very short humanitarian aid to get through, but it needs to be enforced. russia does now have an opportunity to demonstrate that it is compelling the assad regime to adhere to the terms of that ceasefire, but also to demonstrate its adherence to international humanitarian law and, in particular, its duty and obligation under the geneva convention to protect all non-combatants. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, with friends like that, who needs enemies? can i come back another time? (referring to remarks made by members of the efdd group.) so what came out of last friday’s council meeting? a clear signal that there is still a long way to go to persuade member states to sign up to a bigger budget and also how to select the next commission president. a number of eu member state governments know that their voters do not want them to simply sign blank cheques to fund the ambitions of the commission and the leaders of two or three of the larger member states. members of this house can no longer dismiss those voters, those politicians and those governments who question the agenda of political integration or simply label them as being anti-eu, for once you step outside the eu bubble, it is clear that the call for more europe, whatever the problem, is the voice of an elite, not the voice of citizens in many of our countries. national governments and voters want to feel that they get value out of the eu for what they pay in. not all of them want to see a 1950s agenda of political integration. on the whole, the voters want to see a budget that is well managed and matches their priorities, a budget that provides security and well—functioning asylum and immigration systems, and a budget that encourages a cleaner environment, innovation and job creation. but – and members of the ecr group would want me to be very clear on this point – a budget should not be used to buy solidarity, to bribe member states into taking asylum seekers, or to control or punish the actions of individual member states, especially when the member state pushing for the policy itself broke the rules and, in the process, nearly destroyed the eu’s asylum system. so, as president tusk has already admitted, agreeing a budget before the next election is probably unrealistic, but even if all of you here and the eu institutions cannot agree on a budget, those politicians facing their electorates in 2019 should all be clear about what modernising the budget really means, about how the eu will face the massive hole after the uk leaves, and whether the eu budget will be one of coercion rather than cooperation between 27 equal member states. so the ecr group’s question to the council and the commission is simple: is the eu facing a future where decisions continue to be made by all 27 member states, or a future where decisions are dictated by the few? (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, this debate is of course taking place because you have to talk about how you are going to fill the shortfall of money left when britain leaves the european union. i will say something about brexit. what the commission is proposing is not a withdrawal agreement so much as a ‘uk not really leaving at all’ agreement – leaving in name, but not in reality. you intend to impede and delay that process and overturn it if at all possible. now i do not blame you, because you do not want us to leave and you have no incentive whatsoever to help us do it, but i do blame the british prime minister. what britain needs now is a leader with the courage and spirit of a boadicea, and instead we have got ‘theresa the appeaser’. in the referendum, the british people voted to leave the european union, and what that means is that we don’t give any more money to the european union. it means we are not bound by european union law. it means we don’t have open borders and it means that we are not subject to the jurisdiction of the european court of justice. to make that happen, the government should take control of the process. the british government should stop asking the european union how it might leave please, and it should start telling them how it’s going to work. (applause)
mr president, today’s draft brexit document is just a work of pure fantasy, but it is also dangerous one, particularly on northern ireland. we will decide on our borders for our citizens. to paraphrase margaret thatcher, we have not voted successively to take back control of our frontiers in britain only to see them reimposed at a european level, in a european superstate, exercising a new dominance from brussels. no, no, no. the uk is not for turning. and the only common sense that has been spoken in this chamber today was the ecr’s mr henkel. what matters is people’s jobs, industry and their gdp. your companies want to have a free-trade deal with us. our companies want to have a free-trade deal with you. if you do not want to see this parliament split apart – because that is what is happening because of the populist vote: my side of the parliament is actually gaining control of governments or being in opposition – then i suggest you listen to mr henkel if you don’t listen to us.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i am always hearing about new values, i am always hearing about human rights, democracy and the rule of law, and yet in 2011, when journalists in poland were being apprehended, held and sacked for being critical of the government, what did the commission do? nothing. why? well, of course, because mr tusk, as the then prime minister, was pro the european union. but when you get law and justice in power, who are critical of the european union, here you are, mr timmermans – just because they tried to clear out the communist old guard and modernise their system – on the verge of invoking article 7 and taking away their democratic rights within the union. and it is the same story in hungary, where viktor orbán quite rightly refuses to accept your ludicrous migrant quota programme and he is now cast as the devil. maybe the real reason is that he is taking on soros, perhaps the most dangerous man in western democracy today. ‘keep going, viktor orbán’, is all that free democrats can say. and you are happy to interfere, mr timmermans, in every single member state where you think you see an infringement, apart from – i had nearly forgotten – in the case of catalonia. nine hundred and fifty people get beaten up by the police because they want to turn out on a sunday morning and express an opinion – a totally clear violation, mr timmermans, of people’s human rights, an absolute abuse of any sense of a democratic process – yet you say, in that case, that it is none of our business. but, of course, they are a pro-eu government, so the iron fist of the european union is reserved purely for your critics. you said today you hoped that the united kingdom would change its mind and reverse brexit. well, looking at the way you are treating poland, i would have thought the answer must be a very big ‘no’. this, for poland, is the modern-day brezhnev doctrine of limited sovereignty. you rebelled against that system, polish people, and i hope you go on and rebel against this one. (applause from certain quarters)
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, i am pleased that the eu have taken so many off the black list – especially tunisia, which has worked so hard to eliminate the problem of money laundering. despite assurances on this, the eu still put tunisia on the blacklist and damaged its economy. this had severe consequences for businesses and, in turn, jobs in tunisia. this will create yet another wave of economic migrants desperately risking their lives crossing the mediterranean and flooding an already-full jobs market. i want to see tunisians and others remain in their countries or tunisians remaining in tunisia, building their businesses and employing their fellow tunisians. the european union are just as keen to put britain on a blacklist after brexit, as they believe that our successful, low-tax economy is tantamount to money laundering. no it’s not – it’s just a threat to your command soviet economy that you’re trying to create here in europe. you just don’t get free market enterprise, which is why britain is leaving the eu. the eu should stop extending its new cortical tentacles into north africa and the rest of the world on the pretext of money laundering. let’s be frank: the eu just hates free enterprise.
blue-card question. – we understand from code of conduct group minutes that a member of the screening panel, representing one member state, blocked the inclusion of 11 jurisdictions in the tax haven black list. given that these 11 territories include some of the uk’s most notorious offshore tax havens, including bermuda and cayman, i would like to ask mr kofod whether he shares my suspicion that this member state was the uk. does he think this is consistent with the uk’s stated support for tax transparency, and does he agree with me that in future these deliberations in council should be made public?
blue-card question. – i just want to ask a simple question. i do not see why the european union should use its weight, casting about the world in some sort of neo-colonial way to tell other countries what their taxes should be and what their taxes should not be. i find this most unsatisfactory. i wonder why you think neo-colonialism is a good thing to bring back?
madam president, we have long suspected that political pressure in the council is undermining the strength and credibility of the tax haven blacklist. some minutes recently fell into our hands that confirm these suspicions. they reveal that one member of the screening panel disagreed on the evaluation criteria for 11 jurisdictions, several of which have played a prominent role in recent tax scandals: for example, bermuda, the british virgin islands, guernsey and jersey. so it does not take too much detective work to deduce that this one member was the uk, keen to protect some of its most notorious offshore tax havens. to end this politicisation of the blacklist we need an open process, which is why my green group has written to the council presidency demanding greater transparency and accountability on the process of blacklisting. we will use the opportunity provided by parliament’s new special committee on tax rulings to extend our role in scrutinising the blacklisting process.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, in 2013, when greens were on the streets with environmentalists and beekeepers campaigning for a ban on all neonicotinoid pesticides due to their harmful effects on bees, it felt like we were banging our heads against a brick wall. five years later, we find ourselves pushing against an open door, as there is widespread agreement about the negative effects of these substances and more and more people, including michael gove, are coming together to call for a ban. but insuring that our bees survive and thrive is not a single-issue matter. as noted in this report, intensive farming reduces the range of flowering crops for bees to feed on, and the heavy load of agricultural chemicals bees are exposed to weakens them, making them vulnerable to stresses like wet weather, a lack of nectar, diseases, and parasites. bees are an essential part of our agricultural system, but the web of nature is delicate and complicated. we must promote a farming system that works with and not against nature if we are to give bees a chance.
madam president, i wonder how many meps have seen the disease in sugar beet called virus yellows? it is absolutely devastating. aphids infect the young plant with this virus, and within weeks the leaves all go yellow, and yields can be as low as 25% of what you might reasonably expect. neonicotinoid seed dressings have prevented this problem. the green lobby wish to ban these dressings in the interest of bee health. sugar beet is a biennial crop. it is harvested in its first year before it flowers. bees are not interested to visit it at this stage. if these seed dressings are banned by the eu, beet growers will be forced to apply repeated sprays of the insecticide called cypermethrin, with all the ground being covered each time. seed dressings, on the other hand, affect less than 1% of the ground. we are already witnessing some resistance to cypermethrin insecticides. the more they are used, the worse this problem becomes. colony collapse disorder and verroa mite are the big enemy of bees, not sugar beet seed dressings. if they are to be banned, a viable alternative must be found, and for goodness sake, let us look at gm technology, which has a solution to this problem.
madam president, a recent report published by john mann, a member of the british parliament in my region of the uk, has evidenced a significant inequity and unfairness in the way arts, culture and sport are funded. london has received gbp 8 from the arts council in the uk for every gbp 1 received by former coalfield communities in my region. for sport england it was gbp 4 to gbp 1. i suggest it is now time for all public funding for sport, the arts and culture – including eu funding – to be audited with regard to that geographic inequity and unfairness. whether you live in a city, a rural village or a former industrial community, all young people and, indeed, all citizens have an equal right to access to the arts, culture and sport.
madam president, terrorism in europe can be fought effectively only with close cooperation between national authorities. so i welcome theresa may’s commitment to the uk’s continued participation in europol and the european arrest warrant. ms may’s munich speech was, from beginning to end, an argument against britain leaving the european union. but let’s take her at face value. she says the uk will respect the remit of the european court of justice when participating in the agencies, will continue to align its rules on data-sharing and will do all that is necessary to ensure that evidence gathered is admissible in court. it remains to be seen quite how she intends to sell that to the brexit extremists in her party, who oppose the ecj on ideological grounds and would be soft on terrorism. i look forward to more of this pragmatism on brexit and i believe the eu27 recognises that the uk is essential to intelligence against terrorism, and they should respond quickly and positively.
member of the commission. mr president, i apologize for the delay, which is totally beyond my control, but i had to catch a train this morning and the snow delayed it a bit, which deprived me of the pleasure of hearing the previous speakers. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr maurel, on his report, which i consider to be of very high quality. i shall come back to the proposals in it in a moment. i am pleased to be able to present to you one of our commission's flagship proposals on tax transparency as you prepare to vote this afternoon on a proposal on intermediaries. the recent scandals the panama papers, the paradise papers have shown that banks, accountants, tax advisers, lawyers some lawyers have played a key role in favouring certain multinational companies and in organising schemes that allow rich individuals to escape tax. in the face of this phenomenon, we need more transparency, with a simple idea that is to strengthen the capacity of member states to prevent, to detect this aggressive tax planning that deprives governments and citizens of legitimate resources. this is why, last june, the commission adopted a proposal to shed more light on the practices of these intermediaries. in short, it is about obliging advisers to inform the tax authorities of certain - not all - crossborder arrangements they sell to their clients which may help them to evade tax. i would like to begin by summarizing in a few questions the proposal i had the honour to put forward last june. first question: why would these reporting requirements for intermediaries help to reduce tax evasion? the proposal gives member states more information on tax planning mechanisms that could facilitate tax fraud and evasion. the national tax authorities, if the proposal is adopted - which i hope it is - will then be able to react more quickly to the risk of tax abuse. it will also act as a deterrent to those who favour aggressive tax planning mechanisms, as tax authorities will be in a much better position to challenge such planning with early warning systems. who are these intermediaries? these include bankers, lawyers, financial consultants, tax advisers, accountants, etc. including - as seen through a number of spectacular cases - sports agents. of course, i want to say this because i do not want to give the impression that this proposal stigmatises professions that are useful to the common good and that contribute to the functioning of justice, not everyone in this sector is associated with aggressive tax planning and not every tax set-up is a set-up of aggressive tax planning. what types of arrangements should intermediaries communicate to the administration? they will have to report on any crossborder arrangement containing one or more of the markers designated in the proposal by the english hallmarks. these markers are elements or features of the transaction which could allow tax evasion. for example, the use of special arrangements involving favourable tax regimes in countries that do not respect international good governance standards. who is required to report these devices to the tax authorities? the intermediaries will have the primary obligation to report these schemes, but this obligation may be transferred to the taxpayer in certain circumstances. for example, where the intermediary is protected by confidentiality or professional secrecy, where the intermediary is established in a third country or where there is no intermediary because the scheme has been designed in a way that is 'in-house'. member states will automatically exchange the information they receive through a central directory managed by the commission, which is fully accessible to all member states. the report you are debating contains views and ideas which i share. for example, the commission recognises that the lack of reaction from tax authorities to the reported schemes should not mean that they cannot be challenged in the future. we also agree that tax administrations and financial intelligence units on money laundering and terrorist financing need to coordinate better. the rapporteur is right to emphasize this. however, on your proposal to give the commission full access to the central register - although i can of course understand and appreciate it - i think it is fair to say that we know that the member states will not accept it. we are not a tax authority, we do not have the same standards of tax secrecy, so while i have sympathy for the proposal as such, i think it involves a number of upstream institutional reforms which we do not have at the moment. nor do i think we should harmonise the role of accountants any further or provide for the publication of penalties for administrations, intermediaries and taxpayers who fail to comply with their obligations. of course, this does not change the fact that if an intermediary fails to provide the information requested, then national sanctions will apply. the proposal requires member states to ensure that these penalties are sufficiently severe to discourage non-compliance and we will ensure that this is the case. in conclusion, let me stress how much progress has been made in three years to increase transparency and cooperation between member states on tax matters. on this matter of intermediaries, i am pleased to note that the subject has been put on the agenda of the next ecofin meeting on 13 march, which is proof that the matter is moving forward. i would naturally ask you not to let up the pressure - i trust you to do so - for this work to continue now at member state level in partnership with the bulgarian presidency. on our other proposals, member states agreed to the automatic exchange of information on financial accounts, advance cross-border tax rulings, country-by-country returns of multinationals - i still think these should be made public. they also agreed on new rules that will give tax authorities access to anti-money laundering information, an idea proposed in the wake of the panama papers. and of course, i am not forgetting our proposal in april 2016 to make country-by-country returns for multinationals public to allow citizens and civil society to exercise more control over tax practices. i know that some member states are still resisting, and i regret that, but this is in line with history, and i am sure that we will soon reach an agreement, it is our shared responsibility. i know that the council, the commission and parliament are on the same page and see the need to be ambitious and to move things forward. i would like to thank the european parliament again for its important contribution to our work and i look forward to the continuation of this debate and the vote in your house, which i await with great confidence.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the panama papers demonstrated the key role played by intermediaries such as banks, accountants and lawyers in helping their clients create offshore structures for tax evasion, tax avoidance and money laundering, so we welcome this revision to the directive on administrative cooperation, whose aim is to ensure that aggressive tax planning schemes are reported to tax authorities so that they can investigate where necessary. it creates an obligation for intermediaries to disclose potentially aggressive tax planning arrangements, and this information will then automatically be exchanged with other member states. parliament has strengthened the commission’s proposal by requiring an obligation for auditors to report suspect schemes when statutory audits of their clients’ businesses are being carried out and by proposing that the commission itself should have access to the data exchanged. so we are glad to support this proposal as part of our ongoing work to counter the tax avoidance industry.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, these proposals requiring mandatory exchange of tax information undermine tax sovereignty of the nation states, individual privacy and attorney-client privilege, and also the directors’ duty to arrange the tax affairs of companies in order to pay as little tax as possible. we in britain believe that the taxpayer has the right to do everything possible within the law – i say within the law – to minimise their tax exposure. you should not have to pay any more tax than is required: not one penny piece. taxpayers should be allowed to enjoy the fruits of their hard labour, and not have it wasted by the state. the european union wants to maximise taxation throughout europe to pay for the fat-cat salaries and the gilded pensions of eu bureaucrats, under increasing bureaucratic tax bunching. this attitude to the rights of the individual is one of the reasons the uk is leaving the eu, and i encourage the czechs, the hungarians and the poles to do likewise. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, i think the city of london will become a fiscal paradise and i think europeans throughout europe will be wanting to put their money into great britain and into the enterprise that is the city of london, so that they are better off. and, of course, we are the bankers of europe. many countries, including italy, would be in tremendous trouble if they could not borrow money from us. their banks are in danger of collapse, as is the entire euro system, hence why we are leaving.
blue-card question. – i wonder if you agree with me that all this is in preparation for a pan-european income tax in the future? do you think the people of your country will be as pleased as the people of all the other european nations to be hit with yet another whopping great tax to pay for the ‘folies bergère’ that is the european parliament?
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would also like to thank the rapporteur and my fellow shadow rapporteurs for the constructive way in which we have worked together. i believe this has led to a good report with realistic recommendations. the changes we suggested in this report can be embraced by law-enforcement bodies across europe, for example by creating a platform where data can be shared. the small amounts of money that are needed for terrorists to carry out their criminal acts in our cities mean that we need to be better at monitoring even small transactions, including traditional forms of exchange, such as hawala. we also need to recognise that daesh move money into legitimate businesses but in countries with weak institutions, which is why we need to support institution-building in fragile states. this report also stresses that, while we must deal with terrorist financing, it is ultimately through tackling the root causes of poverty, social exclusion and human rights abuses that we will defeat the destructive ideology that breeds terrorism. i have mentioned just a few of the examples of the practical solutions that are outlined in this report. our citizens rightly expect us to keep them safe, and that is why i believe this report is important. it is a demonstration of the practical ways that the eu works for the people across europe.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, it goes without saying that tackling and tracking terrorists’ financial resources is one of the key tools in our fight against global terrorism. i too welcome many of the recommendations in the nart report and strongly support the overall endorsement of greater cooperation amongst the eu member states in this area. it’s clear that terrorism and its financing know no borders and this can only be tackled at the multilateral level. in the uk there is some evidence that isis may well have sold some of its antiquities smuggled out. as the uk leaves the eu, external and internal security will be one of the key areas where it is vital, no matter what else transpires for britain, to stay plugged in. so i welcome the prime minister, ms may’s positive comments in this regard during her munich security conference speech and i hope that accommodation can be found to avoid a security cliff edge if no deal were to transpire during phase two of the negotiations. finding ways to ensure data protection regulation alignment between the uk and the eu post-brexit will also be one of the keys to unlocking coordination in the long term between the eu 27 and a post-brexit britain.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, commissioner, despite the myriad rules and regulations introduced into the banking system, i strongly believe that the only way to stop the flow of funds to jihadists is to physically deny them their safe havens. we know sympathisers raise funds across the globe and extort money through kidnapping and other crimes to support these wicked people. however, the greatest funding comes from control of a territory, especially territory such as we’ve seen in iraq, with natural resources such as oil and gas. it is imperative that we prevent jihadists from controlling such areas and incumbent on nation states – not the european union – to protect their citizens by empowering their military forces to take whatever necessary action.
madam president, this year the commission on the status of women has chosen to focus on rural women, and rightly so. women in rural areas are too often overlooked, despite their crucial role in their communities. they are more affected by climate change than men; they are more dependent on natural resources; and they play a significant role in ensuring food security for their communities. their role in the fight against malnutrition is crucial, and their empowerment is necessary. i am happy to report that this report highlights the importance of women’s involvement in citizenship, but we must remember that fair political representation will never be achieved if girls’ human rights are not fulfilled. this means eliminating fgm, giving girls access to reproductive health and menstrual sanitary products, and fighting against rape culture, child marriage and all forms of gender-based violence. later this month, i’ll join with colleagues to take our work to the united nations in new york, but i am very concerned that mr trump’s administration has refused to grant visas to many women activists who planned to attend, and that this refusal is a way to silence the grassroots women’s movement. i therefore call on the eeas and the member states to use all diplomatic channels to help ensure that these attendees can obtain their visas.
mr president, you’re talking about member states upholding the rule of law, and about the murder of journalists. and, given that we have nils muižnieks sitting here and going to address the house, i think it is important that we remember the murder, by loyalists, of human rights lawyer pat finucane and the fact it has been evidentially proven that there was british collusion in that murder. so here you have a member state involved in the murder of a human rights lawyer – pat finucane.
mr president, i voted for a candidate on three occasions, and on three occasions the vote has been registered and then has disappeared. the system is not working.
madam president, some years ago i had a constituency case involving a fruit winemaker in sussex. fruit wine was redefined from being a spirit to a wine, so it suddenly fell within the eu’s directives on bottling. this guy – who employed, i think, eight other people – suddenly found that they had to change not just his bottles, but his labels, the cases, the prices and everything, because he was using 140 cl and 70 cl bottles rather than the mandated 150 cl and 75 cl bottles. now, here’s the point: that winemaker was not exporting anything. there was no cross—border dimension. he was trading – like the majority of small and medium enterprises – in a fairly limited radius of where his business was situated. the problem with the way that the single market has evolved is that it no longer concerns itself only with issues of trade, but presumes to dictate to even the smallest and most local of businesses – and that reduces consumer choice and reduces economic growth.
madam president, both in the report and in the debate we are being too loose in our language. when we talk about tax havens, and paradis fiscal, we are running together two things. one is something which is secret and therefore illegal, which not a single member of this chamber is going to defend. of course it would be wrong for people to escape their legal responsibilities. the other is places that simply have lower tax rates than we would like – and those places, i would argue, are providing a service by providing some constraint on the appetites of less continent governments. this running together of tax avoidance and tax evasion, which runs through so many of these reports, is conflating two very different things. one is a serious criminal offence; the other is something that people do in the uk every time they buy an isa or premium bonds, or any other legal device that reduces their tax exposure. if we in this house make that elision, how can we expect citizens to respect the difference?
madam president, what bothers me about this motion is not just the intrusiveness and the presumption about telling a sovereign country how to organise its internal affairs, it is the asymmetry that we see over and over again in this chamber. whenever a government is criticised for some domestic policy, you can bet that it is a government that is unpopular in this chamber because it is patriotic, or because it stands up for its national interests, or because it refuses to endorse the goal of the united states of europe. this is a classic example: there were judicial reforms made by the previous polish government that resulted effectively in the packing of the bench, with not a peep of protest from this chamber. but when the current government undoes those reforms to try and restore a measure of balance to the judiciary, the sky falls in. all of you who voted for this measure know in your hearts that, if this had been a goody—two—shoes federalist government, this motion would never have come before the house.
madam president, i voted in favour of this very important report. there is nothing more important than the upholding of the fundamental rights of citizens across the european union. i want to speak today though, about a group of people who do not always see their fundamental rights upheld, and that is people with a terminal illness who sometimes find themselves facing a real challenge and difficulty in upholding their fundamental right to work. yesterday we launched a new group in parliament, of meps from across the house, to campaign for stronger legal protection for people with terminal illness in the workplace, and i am grateful for support from colleagues across the house for that group and for that cause. i would also call today on parliament itself to sign our voluntary charter, to properly protect and support people in the workplace with a terminal illness, so everybody, across the eu, has that fundamental right to work properly upheld.
madam president, what is in a jar of honey? in this jar – i am confident – it is pure honey produced by buzzing suffolk bees and harvested by members of the west suffolk beekeepers’ association that i had the pleasure of meeting last week. but honey is the third most adulterated product in the world. twenty percent of samples taken on imported honey do not respect our high standards. honey fraudsters add sugar syrup to their product or harvest it early and artificially dry it out to cut time and costs. they con consumers and endanger legitimate beekeeping with knock—on effects for the number of pollinators. that is why i support this fight back with improved testing procedures, better labelling and higher penalties for fraudsters. producing honey is hard work. this little jar of liquid gold represents the nectar from two million flowers so let us swarm to the defence of our hardworking bees and beekeepers.
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, i want to apologise to the house because my government has not come up with a definitive document, and this is a great shame because we voted nearly two years ago to leave this sclerotic union. however, any document that includes ecj oversight and doesn’t take back control of our fishing waters is unacceptable. there is another reason as well, because any document that has been produced by mrs merkel’s people, mr verhofstadt, the socialists and the communists opposite, will be totally unacceptable to the british people. so i suggest we vote on that, but do you know what? i can guess what the vote might be.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, unusually, i am asking to add to the workload of the house because we have a chance to make a real difference to the peace process in the korean peninsula. last friday, president trump completely turned his entire policy upside down and decided to negotiate and talk rather than bomb north korea. he is now facing huge resistance from americans who are saying that he should not be prepared to go and talk. the south koreans have sent out a whole delegation of people to fan out around the world to seek support for the peace process. our parliament generally, mr president, is always behind the curve. if we have this debate tomorrow, we will have an opportunity to be at the point or ahead of that curve. of course, we could have a great debate in april when everything has been settled or the dust has not been settled, but this time we have a chance because we have been talking to the north koreans for the last two and a half years to be able to be ahead of the curve, to contribute to that process by supporting the initiatives of the president of south korea, who has done something remarkable in trying to avoid a world war. we need to provide support and tell the people and the president of the united states that the 500 million people represented by this parliament would like him to talk rather than bomb.
on behalf of the group ecr. – mr president, i hear what mr preda is saying, but we would be closing the stable door after the horse has bolted in april, whilst here we have a real chance to make a huge difference to that process.
on behalf of the group ecr. – mr president, i am happy to go with whatever the house wants. if you want to have a vote, let’s see.
member of the commission. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your work. you have invited me here today to make a statement on behalf of the commission on the commission's integrity policy and its working methods, including the appointment of mr martin selmayr as secretary-general of the commission with effect from 1 march this year. let me first explain the context. on 21 february the commission took a number of decisions concerning its senior management, in what is known as a 'package'. why are we doing this? in a large number of directorates-general that we know in our services, in a large number of 'senior management' positions, we have a decision almost every week. but that would be a disruption to our services. that's why we do this regularly in the package. it is only in this way that we can achieve a balanced overall development in the interests of our institution, for example with regard to the different nationalities. we are also taking into account the age of service, the age of retirement and the objective of effectively increasing the proportion of women in the workforce. the last package was prepared by my predecessor. it was discussed and adopted by the college at the end of june 2015. the commission has already taken a number of decisions on the basis of the proposals contained in the white paper on growth and employment. in fact, at the end of june a package was due for decision which was exactly the same as the decision on the present package a few weeks ago. we have a procedure in place for this. let me emphasize three points: we take these decisions on the basis of the statute of the european union. it is our right and our duty. and that's exactly what we did this time. we have taken this decision in agreement and with the participation of the portfolio commissioners, the coordinating vice-president, myself and the president. all the decisions of the college of 21 february were taken on my proposal, and the decision on the secretary-general was taken on a direct proposal from our president, as is also provided for in the responsibilities within the commission. all decisions, including the decision on the new secretary-general, were approved unanimously by all the members of the commission. i would like to refer to the minutes of the commission meeting of 21 february, which we have made public, as we do after every meeting, in accordance with our rules on transparency. secondly, i have no doubt - and it has not been questioned - that mr martin selmayr has all the qualifications required for the post of secretary-general of the european commission. he has many years of experience in key positions in the commission, he is an excellent lawyer, he has high communication skills. he is certainly perfectly suited to the task. he is a man of diligence, talent, qualifications, pro-european attitude and political sense. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. as regards the procedural issues raised publicly in recent days, it can be said that the procedure was followed in all its details and in due course in this package and subsequently in the transfer of mr martin selmayr to the post of secretary-general in accordance with article 7 of the staff regulations. first the call for the deputy secretary general, then an assessment centre, an external evaluation of candidates, the interview with the advisory committee within the commission and then the interview with the president and myself the day before the decision. it was a correct selection, in accordance with the rules of the staff regulations, which i had to ensure and which i have ensured as commissioner responsible for personnel matters. the election of a secretary-general is not governed by nationality or party affiliation, if any. the only thing that should be at the centre of attention is the qualifications required to perform this function, in order to ensure that our institution functions as well as possible and to guarantee the work of the commission in accordance with the guidelines laid down by the president of the commission. and for that, we think the candidate, the elected official martin selmayr, is perfectly qualified. in short, we can assure you that the formal rules have been observed, the procedure has been in accordance with them and the candidate has also fully met our expectations as regards qualifications. that is why we ask you to control this decision, but also to accept it.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commission. the fast-track appointment of martin selmayr to a eur 20 000 a month job was done without any openness, without any transparency. in fact, his photograph was on the commission website before the meeting even took place, so well done on that score. what you have done, i think, is to bring a bit more light onto the commission. i want the citizens to know that the commission is the government of europe. it is unelectable. we cannot vote for them, we cannot remove them, and yet they have the sole right to make law, and people need to understand how their money is being spent. this is juncker’s favourite bureaucrat, a fanatic, who is now the most powerful bureaucrat in the world, and all of it done without an open procedure. you have done the peoples of europe a great service. it is the perfect stitch-up. it smacks of nepotism, unaccountable government, abuse of public funds. thank god the uk is leaving.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, 12 million women in the eu have jobs that depend on the export of goods and services to the rest of the world. whilst trade can liberate the poorest of nations, it is of paramount importance that women are protected by labour laws avoiding issues with precarious work, and that discrimination be eradicated, and that there are equal opportunities for men and women. promotion of free trade empowers people to be economically active, lifting people out of poverty, boosting education and creating higher standards of living. but i believe gender equality should be brought about by cultural change with voices of both men and women. incorporating gender mainstreaming into policy is not the answer. therefore, it is an absolute priority that during the negotiations with the uk, the eu be fair. at the expense of stubbornness and bitterness at the uk’s exit, and fear of other eu countries following suit, the eu could risk jeopardising the livelihood of those women and men whose jobs are reliant upon trade. it is a clear case where politics from any source cannot be allowed to interfere with good sense and the wellbeing of women everywhere.
madam president, i wanted to make a point and speak as a woman who has been in the chamber listening to the whole debate. sexism is a system of oppression that affects every aspect of life. it must be tackled at every level of decision-making and in every sector. unfortunately, in many cases, the fight for gender equality and trade agreements is disregarded or left out in favour of other interests. i am happy that this report on eu trade insists on the importance of adopting a gendered approach. trade includes a wide variety of issues and sectors, which affect women and lgbtiq+ people. it is absolutely crucial to properly assess the impact our commercial policy has on gender equality. i would like to thank the rapporteurs for stating that the eu’s trading commitments should never overrule human rights. this must always be our first priority. unfortunately, the conservative government’s chasing of post-brexit trade agreements at any cost will mean that human rights, gender equality and social justice will be sacrificed on the altar of neo-liberal values. therefore, it’s time to stop brexit and continue the collective fight for a fairer world.
madam president, the istanbul convention is a key instrument for the fight against gender-based violence. when i speak with women’s rights defenders from all over the world, i realise how lucky we are to have such an instrument in europe. this is why i find it appalling that this convention’s ratification is so problematic in some member states, including my own. the fact that governments are reluctant to ratify this key instrument shows how little they care about women’s safety. in some countries the excuse is that the government cannot afford to ratify and implement the convention. in these cases, i say that not to do so will cost women’s lives. in bulgaria, the use of transphobic and homophobic arguments against this convention is very disappointing. it is therefore particularly worrying in the context of the bulgarian presidency of the council. i call on the bulgarian government to revise its position on this crucial issue and stand by the istanbul convention.
rapporteur. – mr president, i am delighted to have the chance to present to parliament this new regulation on cross-border parcels. the regulation started out as a proposal in 2016 as part of the european commission’s digital single market strategy, with the objective of helping to boost cross-border e—commerce by improving parcel delivery. thanks to the hard work of many mep colleagues and staff, the commission and the estonian presidency, we have a provisionally agreed text today. i urge everyone to support this text in the form of the new cross-border parcels regulation in tomorrow’s vote. the initial aims of the regulation were to help secure a more efficient parcel sector, increase transparency of tariffs, and assess prices where necessary. together, i believe we have secured these aims and also added a stronger focus on consumer needs and the interests of small- and medium-sized enterprises when ordering goods from other eu countries. as emphasised in recital 2 of this regulation, article 14 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union highlights the place occupied by services of general economic interest, such as postal and parcel services, in the shared values of the union, as well as their role in promoting social and territorial cohesion. the main elements of the regulation are as follows: we have agreed to expand the scope of key provisions to a certain extent where necessary to all cross-border parcel delivery service providers, not just those designated as providing a universal service. this is right, especially since universal service providers do not always have a large share of the cross-border parcels market. the regulation also covers multinationals and newer players in the parcel sector, including those with alternative business models. on the provision of information to national regulators, article 4 applies not only to cross—order parcel operators, but to all parcel delivery companies, other than those with fewer than 50 persons working for them. regulators can also, where justified, include smaller companies with between 25 and 49 workers. as part of this duty, parcel companies will give information each year on the employment status of workers delivering parcels, along with details of the sub-contractors they use. this, in my view, will help to expose the activities of some businesses who do not give their parcel workforce proper terms and conditions of employment, and instead require them to operate on a self-employed or precarious basis. it is encouraging that this aspect of the regulation has been particularly welcomed by trade unions. rules on cross-border parcel tariffs in articles 5 and 6 empower and enable national authorities more specifically to monitor delivery prices and assess cross-border prices that they deem unreasonably high. whilst the regulation does not impose a cap on prices, it will allow users more easily to compare domestic and cross-border tariffs. parcel companies will have to disclose prices ,and these will be published by the commission on a dedicated website. where parcel delivery is subject to universal service obligations, authorities will have a clearer power to investigate further, where necessary, taking into account the likely impact of prices, including on anyone who is disabled or who has reduced mobility, and smaller companies and citizens in remote areas. the factors that authorities shall take into account in any assessment also include any relevant costs, quality of service standards and volumes, as well as tariffs of comparable parcel delivery services providers. the existence of price regulation and abuses of dominant market position may also be taken into account, if necessary. these provisions have been drafted, as has the regulation as a whole – and i emphasise this point with care – to make sure that the principles of the postal services directive are not undermined or contradicted. in line with the 2011 consumer rights directive, article 7 of this regulation emphasises that consumers are to be provided with proper information on delivery options and charges payable and complaints-handling policies, where applicable. given the concrete evidence on problems with parcel deliveries in quite a few cases, i would have preferred this provision to be stronger, but it is still a good start. there is indeed plenty of evidence on problems with parcel deliveries. finally, i am pleased that the commission is working with the support of parliament on a comprehensive study on parcel delivery, and the regulation underlines that standardisation work should include environmental considerations and require a first review two years after entry into force, including on affordability, consumer protection and standards issues.
vice-president of the commission. – mr president, i would again like to thank parliament for its work on this regulation, which is part of our efforts to improve cross-border parcel delivery in the european union. the commission is following closely and welcomes steps to improve interoperability between national networks, as well as the development of technical standards by the european committee for standardisation. we are also monitoring progress on the commitments made by european universal service providers to introduce new services, such as cross-border track-and-trace and common labels. terminal rates are negotiated in the universal postal union, where the european union is an observer. new rules apply from the beginning of this year and are already lower for china. we are aware of the issue, but it must be agreed among 192 members. it is essential that we support all these developments by removing obstacles and aligning rules across europe. this is the aim of the digital single market strategy where we plan to conclude all pending legislative initiatives by the end of this year.
rapporteur. – mr president, i listened with great interest to all the contributions to that debate. you could tell, particularly from the contributions from colleagues from the committee on the internal market and consumer protection and the committee on transport and tourism, that it was very much a team effort. thank you very much to everyone for their kind comments. it is absolutely right – and the commissioner put this well – that this is an important step for ecommerce and for the digital single market. i absolutely agree with that and also that this regulation will go some way towards dealing with the issues around pricing. it also fits in very well with the geo-blocking regulation. in terms of price transparency, we still have some way to go. i welcome the comments from mr telička about small retailers and making sure this regulation works for them too. on the point about chinese companies and tariffs, part of that has to do with issues regarding the universal postal union rules. i do not think that point was answered by the commission, but we should go back to it. in terms of privatisation and the impact of privatisation, i do agree in principle with the colleague from the gue/ngl group, mr pimenta lopes. that is why i made the point at the beginning on article 14 and the importance of services of general economic interest. we must not trample over the services and workforces that are of key importance for the functioning of the european union and for our social cohesion. i hope that we can continue to work on this agenda together.
in writing. – i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on achieving a consensus on this important issue. some aspects of it were controversial but she was able to build broad consensus. the cost of sending parcels across europe can vary massively. even posting the same parcel on the same journey in opposite directions can cost very different amounts to the customer. in order to better understand this market and monitor its proper functioning, the provision of information on tariffs, company structures and staffing are essential. in turn, this gives consumers more transparency and choice. there is still much work to do to improve the functioning of the single market – a market that we in wales would very much like to remain a member of.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i never thought i would see the day when i would stand in this chamber and congratulate our rapporteur. mr lundgren has done an excellent job with this report and i thank him for all his hard work. when it comes to hgvs, i cannot think of any member of this house better qualified for the task. however, this does not depart from the fact that the cpc driver certificate of professional competence is a damaging piece of legislation. it has brought misery and hardship to countless drivers in the united kingdom and across the continent of europe and i have long campaigned against this unnecessary nonsense. now that the european commission has declared that it will not recognise british driving qualifications after brexit, how short-sighted is that? this surely is an excellent opportunity for her majesty’s government to do the right thing and get shot of the cpc once and for all.
mr president, in a competitive eu market with continuing cross—border services development and a continuous shift towards a digital economy, transport companies often tend to offer more services, but without investing enough on their drivers’ training and skills development or their working conditions. now there is evidence that this has unfortunately caused more accidents involving trucks on eu roads. the efficiency and safety of the road transport business rely heavily both on the quality of vehicles used and on the skills of the drivers employed by the transportation companies. it also relates to other aspects of the road package, which is why i have tabled separately an amendment to this directive in relation to hired vehicles as drivers need to be aware of the issues around that too. for this reason, the qualification and periodic training of drivers and the ability to verify these skills and enforce the legislation that regulates them across the eu must be regularly updated to match changes. ensuring the highest possible safety standards is critical, which is why driver training must also focus on protecting vulnerable road users, such as pedestrians, cyclists and persons with limited mobility. in fact, we do need european-wide standards because we need to make sure that we are protecting workers and vulnerable road users across the piece.
madam president, implementing the cop 21 objectives must be a joint effort at all levels; therefore, cities and local authorities have a great role to play. in greater manchester – in my constituency – the labour mayor, andy burnham, is holding a green summit on 21 march, as part of an initiative to make manchester the greenest city in europe. manchester vote to remain, by the way. the green summit follows extensive stakeholder consultation and brings together environmental experts, interest groups, partner agencies, academics and local people to accelerate greater manchester’s green ambitions. young people are absolutely key to tackling climate changed, as proved by the eco group from st christopher’s high school in accrington, also in my constituency. these informed, passionate and creative young people are the leaders of the future. they came to the european parliament for child rights day in november and met with michel barnier’s brexit team. they know that the uk cannot tackle climate change alone. the fight against climate change is a global challenge that we must keep fighting together with our european partners.
madam president, anglian water have 4.3 million customers. they generate gbp 1.2 billion in revenue and last year paid out gbp 320 million to their shareholders. anglian water sounds quite profitable to me but the company, with a subsidiary in the cayman islands, had a corporation tax bill of zero. not a single penny to help fund our vital public services. and now they want to replace their pension scheme with one that’s a lot worse for their workers. local staff who have contacted me are rightly angry. i am of the firm belief that anglian water can well afford to pay for their staff’s pensions. it is a drop in the ocean for them. and so my message to them is clear: don’t water down your work force’s pensions. think again – you have the power to stop this tidal wave of anger from your workers.
madam president, this parliament is debating what the eu relationship with britain will be post—brexit. for most people, brexit is undefined, negotiated by the unprepared, seeking unspecified outcomes which will end in an unmitigated disaster for the people of ireland. so, if the british government refuses to live up to its commitments on the border of ireland and on no diminution of our rights, the brexit negotiations should freeze. the british government’s rejection in march of what they agreed in december is an absolute scandal but, you know, it is not new. those of us who are used to negotiating with the british know only too well how hard it is to hold them to their commitments. they claim to support the good friday agreement in all of its parts, they say there will be no denial of our rights, they say that they do not want a hard border but, from where we are standing, it looks like they are designing the uniform, training the dogs and sharpening the razor wires.
madam president, this coming sunday, the world water forum begins in brasilia. it’s very ironic to consider that this high—level event on such a crucial issue takes place in brazil, a country which is shifting to a dictatorship, where land-grabbing and disregard for environmental concerns are widespread. the recent decree putting the military in charge of rio’s police, fire services and prisons is highly unlikely to solve the city’s security problem. the eu and its member states must make a much stronger reaction to the increasing state repression. our governments should support the alternative water forum set to take place next week. this grassroots platform gathers organisations from around the world, including green cross, who fight for water to be recognised as a human right, rather than as a commodity. i stand in solidarity with them, and in particular with the indigenous communities in brazil and elsewhere, who are fighting against corporations trying to seize their lands and their natural resources.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, two thirds of the british people think the european commission is trying to bully us in these negotiations and they are right. the eu is bullying us, it bullies member states, it bullies its next—door neighbours, and it even bullies the third world with its neo-colonial policies. of course it does, because the europe of the junckers, the barniers and the selmayrs is power without accountability. well, at long last, you have met your match in donald trump. now, you may well scream and shout about his aluminium and steel tariffs, but the eu puts tariffs on 13 000 goods coming into it, meaning that shoes and bras and food are more expensive for simple, ordinary folk who do not understand this because it has never been properly explained to them. the sheer hypocrisy of criticising trump when you already have put tariffs on steel and aluminium amazes me, but it does show the folly of us going for a transition period. it shows the utter stupidity of the labour party, wanting to sign us up to this permanently, because in this usa dispute we now find ourselves trapped, impotent and unable to act. we need to be free. we voted brexit, we voted to make our own trade policy and our own trade decisions. we could do a deal with america in 48 hours. we need to act. just yesterday, the trump administration were describing us as their best ally in the world. ms may, we did not vote for a transition period, we voted to leave this organisation, we voted to leave the customs union, we voted to leave the single market. so, please, ms may, at this summit next week, do what trump has done: stand strong against the european commission, against the unelected bullies. bearing in mind the italian elections – and weren’t they wonderful, folks? – it is pretty obvious that the game is up anyway. so she will be doing not just the british people a favour, but the whole of europe too.
on behalf of the enf group. – mr president, i agree with nigel. this debate is rather pointless. just like mr gualtieri said, it is like the titanic – it is sinking very fast. the resolution is a federalist’s delight and it is business as usual here, yet all around you, rome burns. literally! the populists are winning elections, kicking out the old guard, the very people who wrote this resolution. across the southern eu states there is horrifically high youth unemployment. in italy nearly 70% of the youth voted for populist parties. yet you come up with this framework that actually just reflects the old order, not the new. however, i do detect a realisation that trying to punish the uk would damage your economies too. when i was in america, in washington, in december, wilbur ross, the secretary of state for commerce, said to me, don’t take that poison pill that the eu offers us if you want a trade deal with us. my friend, nigel farage, is absolutely right, we can get a deal together in 48 hours, because we’re two proud trading nations. you lot haven’t got a clue. you’re a protectionist racket. that’s what trump told you and that’s what wilbur ross told you, and that’s what you are.
mr president, you have heard from two united kingdom speakers. you’re now going to hear from a third, a fervent brexiteer, and one who is very, very pleased at the position the united kingdom is taking and the fact that it is prepared to say ‘no’ to the european union, that we do not wish to continue being a vassal state. could the bullies in this chamber – there are two of them at least, i am not going to bother to name them, they have already been named – take some very clear messages back please? the united kingdom does not wish to be a vassal state. we really take exception to being told that we should continue having the jurisdiction of the european court of justice and that we should continue to be under the onerous single market and customs union regulations. because, quite frankly, brexit means brexit. if you want to make brexit hard, be aware. actions have consequences and for you, european union, the consequences will be very, very tough and very negative for you.
madam president, the emerging position of the eu27 and the resolution that we have before us in parliament today cannot be a surprise to the uk government. they respond, in fact, to the ambiguities and the contradictions in that government’s position. the biggest ambiguity of all is the idea that you can have frictionless trade with the rest of europe while leaving the customs union and the single market. colleagues, the single market and the customs union are precisely the tools with which our countries have organised frictionless trade across europe. you cannot walk out from them, abandon them and still have frictionless trade. the customs union also is a vital question when it comes to the northern ireland border. all of us are waiting with bated breath to hear how you can turn that border into a customs border but not have any customs controls. how do you do it? how can it be done? (interjection: ‘electronically’) electronically? so, all these nice wizardry things? i think they want to send harry potter to find some solution to this border. (applause)the leaked government figures, by the way, show that this solution would reduce uk gdp by 4.5% over the next decade. no wonder they wanted to keep those figures quiet and how embarrassed they were when they leaked out. no, there will be deadlock, i fear, in these negotiations, which will continue for so long as we have a government in britain that is divided internally, that has no majority in its own parliament and which continues to lose public support on this issue. it is time for a change within britain if these issues are going to be properly addressed.
madam president, as a british mep i am experiencing both sides of the brexit negotiations and what makes me really sad is that it is the european side that is active in protecting citizens’ rights and environmental standards, while the tories are using brexit to ride roughshod over them. i noticed this especially in the area of tax, the main area of my work here in parliament, and where our resolution makes clear that the uk will not achieve a trade deal with the eu unless we match european standards in the fight against tax avoidance and money laundering. so i am glad that my work here on tax won’t be wasted, but i am sad that i must use my role as an mep to protect these high standards in the uk after brexit. the situation is similar with citizens’ rights where my own government did little to defend our interests, as though the one million british people who work in the eu or have european partners or children just don’t matter to them. brexit is a clear example of ideology triumphing over reason and, as such, it is the epitome of bad government.
madam president, we have had the commission’s draft withdrawal agreement and we have had mrs may’s response. the commission wants unconditional surrender and mrs may will settle for conditional surrender. the eu referendum was brought about and won by the uk independence party, and ukip’s position is no surrender. when the british people voted to leave, they voted to take back control: no more money to the eu, no more eu laws imposed upon us, no more open borders. brexit must mean exit. our future relationship with the eu will be one of trade, friendship and cooperation, something that ukip has argued for for the last 25 years. we will not accept subservience to the eu. we want full independence and the return to our former status as an independent, democratic nation state. (applause)
madam president, this morning we have heard of the european union’s desire for a close partnership with the uk post—brexit. yet there is no spirit of conciliation and compromise, and nowhere is this more evident than in the draft legal text on northern ireland and the republic of ireland which this resolution supports. this is aggressive interference in the internal affairs of the united kingdom. it would be disastrous for northern ireland economically. it violates the principle of consent – a core principle of the belfast agreement – and it goes well beyond the belfast agreement in its north-south proposals. in fact it is a text that no british prime minister could agree to. it has achieved the seemingly impossible of uniting the british parliament against it. last week my party told mr barnier that we wanted practical solutions on the border. these proposals are a very far step away from it.
madam president, amidst all our talk – quite rightly – about the single market and the customs union, i think a point worth making is that scotland voted to remain within our european union. that is our starting point and that is our domestic issue, but we will be in touch. don’t forget about scotland. but in this debate i’d address my remarks to people outside of this chamber. to the people in england, the people in the united kingdom, i say as a friend of both, who voted leave: i get it, your anger is justified, your anger is real; but i assure you, your fight is not with the european union. you were told, you believed the promises; you were told by serious people like david davis that there was no downside and a considerable upside to voting leave. well i tell you, dear friends, this is what the future looks like, and it’s pretty bloody bleak: a diminished uk, a diminished europe, a poorer citizenry, a poorer society, a poorer economy. nobody voted to make themselves poorer. there are no unicorns; there are no windmills for every voter; there is no gbp 350 million for the nhs. they lied to you. you were right, you were genuine, to take those promises at face value. but as we get to the end point of this process, we see what the reality is. there is no shame in changing your mind. there is still time to change course.
madam president, fear, dread, alarm, panic, terror, pain. that is all that you hear, from those on that side of the house, will occur to britain once we leave the european union, not the positive message that we have campaigned for: one where britain will be independent, looking outwardly to the rest of the world and still being friends with the european union. this paper that you present today is one more attempt at fear, but this fear is to try to shackle britain and undermine us. the reality is that it is the european union’s fear of britain: fear of britain succeeding, fear of britain leaving this club and doing well. but i will tell you that britain has never feared looking forward to the future. we weren’t in fear when we came to your aid from the times of nazism to communism. we weren’t fearful when we had to tackle our own economic problems, and we will not live in fear living outside of the european union. we will embrace it and look forward to a bright future. you ought to learn that lesson now. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card answer. – what i will say to you is that britain will not return to the european union. what you will find is that more countries will want to leave the european union. because when our economy is growing faster than yours, when our regulations are not imposing costs on the small businesses that you have, and when you finally realise that it is politicians and democracy and the people that make the decisions over their lives, not unelected commissioners, then you will see that more of europe will want to leave and join brexit as well.
madam president, let us negotiate as equals. do not try and bully us. we are not norway or canada: we have almost double the population of canada and ten times that of norway. we are a true world power. we offer europe friendship and cooperation, but be of no doubt: there will be an independent, free, prosperous british lion off your shores. you will not chain us. do not be fooled by political has-beens coming from the uk, like blair and clegg, desperate for publicity, acting as some sort of third column trying to stop brexit or, worse still, agree a deal that will leave the uk so weak we come back, cap-in-hand, in decades to come. be of no doubt: that will not happen. we are offering you tens of billions of pounds in aid, to plug the holes in your budget, just as my father and grandfather endured rationing in order that food could be sent to a starving mainland. we are your friends – your powerful friends – but do not push us too far. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – thank you, mr flack, for giving way and taking the blue card. may i congratulate you for being the very first united kingdom conservative to actually contribute to this debate today. does it not strike you as strange that, of all your colleagues, who are acting as the midwife to the brexit vote – we have heard plenty from the brexiteers, the charlatans, the shysters, the useful idiots today – you are the first united kingdom conservative – the government of the united kingdom – to actually speak today? do you not think you could have said something more than warm words, flannel and nonsense? (applause)
blue-card answer. – you consider the offer of friendship and cooperation bad words – that’s what the british conservatives and the british people are offering. the british conservatives sit here as part of a very large and powerful ecr group. we are a diverse group with diverse views.
madam president, most people in the chair are not as observant as you, so may i congratulate you on that. can i ask mr smith to please withdraw his remarks on brexiteers? they are unparliamentary and demean this parliament.
madam president, as a point of order on parliamentary language, i would ask mr smith to withdraw the use of the word ‘shyster’. as someone of jewish heritage, he should be fully aware and understand the power of that term and how demeaning it actually is.
madam president, when mr smith was speaking, i raised my green card and you ignored it. are you being fair in this debate? you have been very vocal about the irish border in the media. can i please green card mr smith about that? it was relevant to the point he made.
madam president, ‘i am european’ is the title of a campaign that my party, plaid cymru (the party of wales), launched last week calling for people to have the ability to retain their eu citizenship after the uk leaves the eu. the petition received more than 5 000 signatures in just the first few days. last wednesday, the house of commons debated and backed a plaid cymru motion on this. no one has the right to strip people of their citizenship against their will. that’s the view of many legal experts but that’s what will happen unless there is action now, and it’s a question of political will. i welcome the fact that this resolution again proposes that the eu27 examine how to mitigate the loss of rights of uk citizens, and i urge the commission and the council to recognise that for many, their european citizenship is also an essential part of their identity.
madam president, two weeks ago the commission published its draft withdrawal agreement containing proposals on northern ireland that, at best, show a disregard of the belfast agreement and the principle of consent. at worst, they read as an attempt to use brexit to pull northern ireland away from the rest of the united kingdom. then last week, leo varadkar and donald tusk chose to dismiss the prime minister’s reasonable call between brussels, dublin and london on border issues. this kind of attitude is putting strain on relationships and risks hardening opinions on all sides. i would say to mr tusk that you are playing a high-stakes game with the united kingdom, and with northern ireland in particular. you are in serious danger of overplaying your hand. we want and need solutions that avoid a hard border and respect the constitutional integrity of the united kingdom and the belfast agreement. we can only do that if we all work together.
blue-card question. – first of all, thank you very much for taking the blue card. i have one very simple question, which is: on the basis of what you said, and which attracted a great deal of support, will the european parliament in your opinion – i am asking you to make a prediction – vote in favour of any agreement that is reached between the european commission, the european council and the british government? do you think that the european parliament will vote in favour of it or vote against it?
mr president, i just want to say briefly in this debate that i am disappointed that none of the realities of the uk leaving have really been touched upon from the eu point of view, such as the fact that the uk will become the largest single market of the eu when we leave – bigger than china, the united states and japan, for example. we have a gbp 75 billion deficit with the eu of your goods, and we employ 1.5 million germans through cars, etc. the city of london is very important in funding eu businesses. i have heard none of this today. what we need is a super canada deal, one that is bigger, better and deeper than the one with canada – which is entirely achievable – and a strategic partnership agreement on foreign affairs, defence and security. i thank mr verhofstadt for his support for the uk in respect of the dreadful attack on our soil. when it comes to security, we are as one.
mr president, this brexit government still has no plan: no plan on northern ireland, no plan for its citizens, and no plan for businesses. no clear plan is a dereliction of duty. the church times wrote, and i quote: ‘when a government sees an impending threat to the people in its care, it fails in its duty if does nothing to remove that threat’. ms may and her conservative government are failing in their duty of care to the country. as the so-called ‘party of business’, it would appear they have no business plan. you can’t run a corner shop without a business plan, let alone a country. the single market has massive benefits, but it also has rules. this resolution is clear about those rules, and it is reasonable to defend them. but whatever the deal might be, we as the liberal democrats demand the people have a say on it. we here will have a vote. it’s likely the parliament of wallonia will have a vote. as my hashtag says, #giveusasaymrsmay.
mr president, as the resolution recognises, the logical consequences of the uk conservative government’s red lines are customs checks and delays at dover and elsewhere, which will seriously impact the supply chains not only of uk businesses, but also businesses in the eu27. theresa may’s red lines have boxed the uk into a corner, with a free trade agreement now the only option. this will be damaging for the eu and a disaster for the united kingdom. whitehall’s own assessment of the impact makes for bleak reading. if the uk ends up with only a free trade agreement, it can expected a gdp drop of 5% nationally, including in my south-east constituency. under wto rules, which the likes of ukip want, that would be even worse. none of this seems to bother the uk conservatives, who seem to have abandoned uk business entirely, but it will not be their wealthy chums who suffer from this. it will be ordinary people. it is high time this government dropped its red lines and negotiated with an open mind.
in writing. – scotland’s coastal communities must not be made to suffer as a consequence of brexit. a london tory government deemed our fishing communities expendable on our way in to the eu and it would be no surprise if the industry is deemed by the uk government to be expendable again on the way out. this resolution calls for a new bilateral partnership agreement and it is vital that the uk agrees only to a deal which will benefit our fishing industry, fully adhering to international law. the agreement must allow scottish fishermen to fully benefit from our resource-rich waters. and our fishermen’s interests must not be bartered away for the interests of the city of london or any other sector. the key word in this resolution is ‘agreement’ – and the uk government must only agree to a deal which fully protects our coastal communities. as part of that deal, fishing powers must be returned to the scottish parliament so that we can benefit scotland’s coastal communities, managing our rich fishing resources sustainably and entering future fisheries negotiations as a normal coastal state. i call upon the uk government to give our fishing communities the priority they deserve in this negotiation.
mr president, last week in salisbury, my constituency, a man and his daughter were poisoned with a military-grade nerve agent. a police officer who attended the scene was also poisoned. yesterday, the british prime minister announced it was highly likely that russia was responsible for this outrage, either through a direct state—sponsored assassination attempt or because it allowed a deadly substance to pass into the hands of others. today, we are awaiting an explanation from moscow. this must be a wake-up call for all of us. we in the west are being tested: the annexation of crimea, cyber—attacks in estonia, and the use of chemical weapons in salisbury. a disturbing pattern is emerging, one we have to meet firmly and with a united front. (applause)
mr president, i rise in relation to the rules related to the conduct of members of this house towards one another. this morning, in the debate on the relationship between the european union and the uk, a member of this house, mr alyn smith from scotland, quite rightly used some language to criticise brexiteers like myself. but he used one particular word in that criticism, which i feel that you, as the president this this chamber, would actually recognise as being highly disgraceful and would warrant an apology. he called brexiteers shysters. as you know, the word shyster is derived from the german word for someone who defecates. but it also is a very poignant word for those of us who have jewish ascendants or jewish relations in our family, as i do. shyster is used to criticise jews on a regular basis for being dishonest and for various other aspects. i believe that mr smith may not have wanted to use that phrase in that context, but now recognising the strength of that, he should apologise. i would ask you to seek that from him.
mr president, i refer colleagues who might not be familiar with the english word, the definition of ‘shyster’ in the collins english dictionary: ‘shyster, plural shysters. if you refer to someone, especially a lawyer or politician, as a shyster, you mean that they are dishonest and immoral [...] a person, especially a lawyer or politician, who uses discreditable or unethical methods.’ there is nothing about jewish anything in it, and nothing could have been further from my mind. indeed, the allegation is as ridiculous as mr woolfe is himself. i refute it absolutely, and i would urge the house not to waste time on such nonsense. (applause)
mr president, thank you for taking the point of order. i rise under rule 11, section 3, and to quote the rules of procedure, ‘the conduct of members shall be characterised by mutual respect’. whatever mr smith’s inadequate comments just now, the fact of the matter is that he has violated the values and principles of the european parliament, of which we had an outstanding example from mr fox’s comments earlier on. notwithstanding, the request is that the president deliver to mr smith a formal reprimand. (applause)
mr president, i don’t normally get upset by anything, but mr smith is the master of the politically correct. he’d hound anyone to the gates of hell if they said anything politically incorrect. i don’t normally worry about these things, but on this occasion i think he’s gone over the top and i think he should apologise. normally he’s not so silly, so i think he’s not doing himself or his political party any good.
mr president, it is quite extraordinary the way in which we conduct the debate on customs and borders as though we were still living in the 19th century, as though crossing an international frontier involved greasy customs officers in peaked caps and epaulettes opening all our bags. in fact, almost all clearance is done online and in advance these days, and that process is accelerating as technology improves. in particular, i think developments in blockchain will within a few years make all customs checks between advanced economies redundant and this is something we should greatly look forward to. what an irony that people who see themselves as being forward—looking and futuristic are, when it comes to the question of borders with non-eu countries, the most determinedly stuck in the past.
mr president, i was proud to be the ecr’s shadow rapporteur on this report. we made very useful progress. we made it clear, firstly, that stronger monitoring mechanisms are needed to measure the contribution made by cohesion policy in fighting climate change; secondly, that greater autonomy is needed for cities so that they can adopt their own mitigation plans free from brussels’ interference; and thirdly, that support should be given to the collaboration between businesses and cities in spearheading green tech and decarbonisation. these are all points which i and the ecr were happy to support, but we could not support paragraph 20, which reiterates the need to increase the post—2020 cohesion policy budget. this was a separate amendment which was not included when negotiating the compromises. it has been the long—standing position of the uk delegation and the ecr group not to support further spending in this area. i therefore advise the ecr to abstain, as i did.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on foreign affairs. – mr president, eu leaders in rome last year vowed to be big on big issues and small on small ones. that is why the committee on foreign affairs is calling for an ambitious approach to foreign policy in the mff. i don’t need to rehearse all the crises that the european union is expected to deal with – they span the globe – but what i want to make clear is a call for sufficient resources to meet these expectations, for more flexibility in order to be in step with fast-changing global developments, and for better coordination. but let none of this be a blank cheque to undercut long—term policy objectives in favour of short—sighted goals, such as cracking down on migration or decreasing transparency. i have a few questions to the commissioner. how will the commission ensure better coordination of the external financing instrument? it should go hand in hand with increased transparency. concretely, what evaluation mechanisms will be put in place to monitor the spending of taxpayers’ money on foreign policy and ensure that it is in line with clear and agreed objectives? finally, do you agree that the role of this house is key in ensuring solid support for eu action and that it is really important that we have agreement before the end of this mandate?
blue-card question. – thank you for accepting the blue card. you mentioned the reduction in revenues following brexit. would it not be sensible for you to be looking at actual reductions in the scope of the ambition of this union, to suit the new financial reality that will come from the – far less – revenue you will get following brexit, rather than seeking to continue to be all things to all men, even when you know that the money is going to run out?
madam president, cut your coat to suit your cloth; spend to suit your income. the anti-logic of this place rejects sound and sane economics. instead, you look to ever more desperate ways to squeeze the taxpayer until the pips squeak. interference in member state tax systems, introduction of new eu-wide taxes, abolition of national vetoes. in short, spend, spend, spend and spend again. soon, reality will hit. the truth is that sooner or later you will run out of other people’s money. the time will come when the grand ideas of this project will be unaffordable, and this will reach even this place. some reality is starting to come through now, but when the real truth of financial sanity really hits you, that will be the end of this place and this project.
madam president, there is no greater impediment to the creativity of an economy, no more destructive force to social cohesion in a nation, and no greater threat to the future of europe than the fear and reality of unemployment. it is with a great deal of pride that i can support the priority my group is giving to combating unemployment, particularly youth unemployment, in the next mff. we need, commissioner oettinger, the programmes that the european union runs in this area to be effective and to be properly taken up. the priority is indeed jobs, but the priority is also the transformation of the economy through investment in knowledge, technology, innovation, investment, science and research, because the old economy that we have will not do. it will not deliver the jobs that those young people need. if the future of europe is the future of freedom, then it is also the future of hope for the next generation.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, for all the posturing that went on in the chamber this morning during the brexit debate, one might suppose that the eu is in a position to send britain packing with no departure agreement. however, this motion blows such an idea out of the water when it notes that the december deal to launch phase two of brexit talks included an undertaking that the uk ‘will contribute to and participate in the implementation of annual budgets for 2019 and 2020 as if it had remained in the union’. in cold hard cash over two years, this equates to nearly eur 20 billion net, yet as brexit secretary david davis made clear, nothing is agreed until everything is agreed. were the uk simply cut adrift, you would have an enormous immediate financial black hole and no obvious means of filling it. the conclusion surely is that it is time for the eu to drop the brow-beating and the bullying and come to a sensible deal. the truth is that it cannot afford to do otherwise.
mr president, i would say to the high representative that just hours after un security council resolution 2401 was passed for a 30—day ceasefire in syria, on 24 february, the assad regime’s air force was recorded to be bombing across eastern ghouta again. this was a fateful start to a ceasefire that was declared this week a failure by the us ambassador to the un, nikki haley. i note her warnings that if a solution cannot be imposed by the un, then the us may be forced to take action independently. further comments from russia suggesting that it would retaliate against the us directly in the event of any attacks against the assad regime must be a cause for the gravest of alarms. as tensions between the uk and russia increase following the recent assassination attempt of a former russian spy on british soil, such high stakes diplomacy come at the worst possible time. the dismissal today of one of the most sensible voices in the us administration by president trump – that is us secretary of state, rex tillerson – is also of grave concern for what’s going on in the world. right now our priority for the eu must be securing a durable ceasefire in syria and getting the geneva process of negotiation back on the table.
mr president, recent events in syria have shown just how drastic a rethink western policy needs. we have reached a point where a supposed cornerstone ally, turkey, is conducting military operations against fellow allies in the fight against both isis and the assad regime. whilst this is nothing new, the audacity of their fight in bringing them on a collision course with american personnel in the region is. but the issues go much deeper. the syrian people have suffered for seven long years. for what? to remove assad when it is now clear such an objective is unachievable without further mass slaughter and further instability? how many lives does your naive power politics take? all your foreign policy has done is destabilise the middle east. we have seen for decades now the suffering caused by your failures both at home and abroad. what will it take for you to wake up and change direction? let’s look at how we can speak honestly with every nation and look for solutions without choosing sides for military adventurism. interference in the internal affairs of sovereign nations is only neo—colonialism and stores trouble.
mr president, eastern ghouta is fast becoming a hell on earth. assad continues to drop bombs not on terrorists but on civilians and to loot their health supplies. four chlorine attacks have been reported since the start of the year. president putin dismissed these as ‘fake news’ and ‘boring’. the un security council is weaker than ever. the us is right to push for a new resolution closing loopholes that allow attacks on terrorists by russia and assad. the eu is the largest humanitarian donor in this conflict and has leverage. how will we use it? so my questions to you, high representative are: how are you preparing the ground for a unified eu position that increases pressure on russia? what is being done to ensure a revision of the un operating principles so we can stop assad from dictating the global aid response? one of the most harrowing reports last week was that of women and girls across syria facing abuse in accessing aid. it is important that the april conference finds effective ways to stop this ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, two weeks after un resolution 2401 was passed, the situation has only got worse in eastern ghouta. bombs continue to rain down with impunity on homes, schools and hospitals, and the evacuation of the wounded remains impeded. more than two million people, half of them children, are living under siege and have been prevented from receiving a single aid convoy of vital food and medicine. all these actions are a breach of international humanitarian law. the ceasefire was blatantly ignored. there is a complete disregard for civilian lives. i welcome the un investigation into these crimes to bring those responsible to justice. we call on all parties to fully implement the un resolution urging the syrian government to abide by international humanitarian law and immediately allow the safe delivery of humanitarian aid across the country. my hope is that the upcoming conference on the future of syria will be an opportunity to mobilise international support for a un-led political solution. after seven years of raging war, unspeakable suffering and collective failures, it is high time we give syrians a positive message.
mr president, it has been seven years now that the syrians have been asking us: what have we done to deserve this? a matter of days ago, the unhcr found a four year—old wandering the desert trying to escape, but today he was stunned and silent, no longer even putting that question anymore. what is happening in eastern ghouta is that russia and its cohorts are carrying out bombings and causing people to flee. then, that very same state, russia, is poisoning the minds of europeans against those fleeing syrians when they come here seeking refuge. what is happening today in syria is nothing but a stain on the conscience of humanity, and the international community’s inability to face the perpetrators within a un framework is paid for in the blood of syrians. high representative, you face an impossible situation, and yet today in this very house, we hear voices that are sympathetic to the russian line. we must be ready to face... (the president cut off the speaker).
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, whilst the collapse of the soviet union heralded an advance in democracy, in individual liberty and economic wealth unprecedented in human history, as we know, its ideology lingered on in some quarters. having visited cuba and knowing how warm and welcoming the people are, i was pleased to see the thawing of relations between the western world and cuba, led by the united states. they have suffered for too long under a dictatorial communist government, and i have no doubt that their reintegration into the global system will highlight once again the benefits of the western liberal order. madam high commissioner, if the eu is to help in the process of reintegration it must do so by working with the cuban people in a fair and equitable manner, and not impose the usual neo-colonialist trade agreement that benefits the few and penalises the majority. mr president, it is my fervent hope that as cuba develops the last echelons of this particularly nasty brand of socialism practised in venezuela, north korea and elsewhere will likewise follow suit.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on culture and education. – this year’s annual growth survey takes place in a new political landscape, with the recent adoption of the european pillar of social rights as well as the november communication from the commission on strengthening european identity through education and culture. i welcome this political shift, but we must make sure it translates into concrete measures and results. the annual growth survey shows an overall reduction of unemployment, a reduction of early school leaving and a rise in high education attainment. this is good news, but we should not be fooled by raw figures: this progress does not benefit people from different social backgrounds in an equal way. vulnerable young people and young people from lower social and economic backgrounds are still at high risk of unemployment. their background and postcode still massively impact their educational path, as well as their future economic and professional opportunities. we must ensure that the jobs that are created are of high quality, in line with the ilo’s decent work agenda, and continue to fight precarious employment situations.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i think the employment report acknowledges the need to bring together the semester, the social pillar – as we were hearing – and also the sustainable development goals: i do not think we should forget those. i welcome the council’s recognition of the need for the greening of the economy, employment and society, and that echoes some of what is in the employment report. i look forward to seeing us strengthen that dimension – that just transition dimension – within the semester. it is important for the direction of amounts of investment, of training and, indeed, the development of the society in which we live. we heard some of the challenges from a colleague earlier. also, i think we do need to be looking to see member states adopt national action plans to reduce child poverty, because i think when we are looking at breaking that cycle we need to be doing much more. i think it is appalling that we are still seeing in parliament reports requests for decent nutrition for children in one of the richest regions of the world.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, commissioner malmström, thank you for your statement this morning. the united kingdom and the european union are close allies of the united states – the uk both as a permanent member of the un security council, and as a nuclear power. the close cooperation between the uk, the eu and the us through nato and other international forums is the cornerstone of international peace and security. so it is with great regret that we now see the impact that the us decision to impose tariffs on steel and aluminium will have on us here in the eu. the ecr therefore welcomes the uk and the eu’s clarity that tariffs are not the right way to address the global problem of steel overcapacity. instead, a multilateral solution is needed. nonetheless, it is right that the uk and the eu seek to defend our domestic industries from us tariffs, but any countermeasures by the eu must be in accordance with international trade law and should not exacerbate an already tense situation. we should lead by example, to demonstrate that we believe in free trade and the rules-based multilateral trade system. i would like to reiterate the uk’s commitment to working closely with the eu and its partners to consider the scope for exemptions as outlined by the us. however, i would like clarification on three points. firstly, canada, mexico and australia have been excluded from these measures, with the us citing their close security alliances for this decision. does the commission believes that the us is seeking for the eu to negotiate a security agreement to address those concerns? secondly, is the commission re-evaluating its measures to tackle the overcapacity of steel? thirdly, which eu markets will be most affected by diverted trade to europe because of these tariffs?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, first of all some basic facts. china has been dumping steel. the european steel association (eurofer) set this out in a statement in october 2015. secondly, in the united states there are whole communities – indeed large towns – whose industry has been hollowed out, indeed devastated, by competition, competition that has likely been unfair. thirdly, when running for election, the president of the united states made promises. these promises included tariffs. now we, as a party, favour free trade. indeed, one compelling reason for brexit is that the european union is itself protectionist, despite what mr weber said. before anybody blue cards me, that is what the customs union is – there is an external tariff wall. to give just one example, the eu imposes duties on agricultural goods that can be up to 67%. we would of course prefer it if the president of the united states did not introduce new tariffs. nevertheless, it is important to understand the reasons. if i may make a suggestion to the eu national governments, the united states would be much more likely to take note of what continental european governments want on tariffs if those same european governments were to spend the two percent of gross domestic product on security that is their obligation. that would be better for a peaceful world than the large eu tariff walls.
mr president, insulting world leaders, be it trump or even prime minister may, appears to have become the norm. but let me just remind you of some key facts here before we start throwing bats and whatever at the usa. the european union is the largest protectionist trade block in the world: eur 17 billion a year charged to exporters via the common external tariff. even the commission admits to 5 000 non-tariff barriers. and then we have all of the red tape and the regulation, which equally acts as a tariff barrier or a barrier to trade in some context. therefore, to keep criticising mr trump and the usa because of his trade policy is not going to be in the least bit helpful, because he’s going to be able to come back and say: ‘what about in your own backyard? why don’t you sort out to own trade policy in the first instance?’ diplomacy is going to be absolutely pivotal here. we don’t need revenge, we don’t need retaliation and we don’t need penalty. just remember how important the usa market is for european member states. (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, we welcome the acknowledgment of the importance of our relationship, our common values, our close connections and our historical links. we share the aspiration for a strong and effective partnership covering trade, foreign policy, internal security and areas of thematic cooperation, but we cannot support a resolution which ignores the parameters set out by our prime minister. to suggest that the best solution would be membership of the single market and customs union, to pay into the budget and to accept the jurisdiction of the ecj is to call for eu membership in everything but name. that would mean undertaking all the obligations of eu membership but with no say, which would be neither democratic nor sustainable. differences remain and tough talks lie ahead, but i believe there is nothing preventing us from reaching a unique and mutually beneficial agreement, reflecting the new rights and obligations, apart from the political will and a sense of pragmatism. it is overwhelmingly in the interests of both the uk and the eu27 to have a unique deal with the freest possible trade and the closest possible security relationship. let’s make it happen.
mr president, thank you as usual on the swift and sure way in which you got us through this lengthy vote. the british problem, or from our perspective the european problem, is very simply stated. right from the beginning we wanted to be in a common market, not a common government. even as late as february 2016, if david cameron had been able to come back with any significant retrieval of power, it is clear that he would have won the referendum. but faced with the choice, the other 27 or the commission, or from whatever breakdown, it was clear that people would rather lose the second-largest financial contributor than set the precedent that powers could float back rather than just upwards. so we find ourselves now having to look for such a deal from the outside. i have to say, there were a lot of voices in this house that before the referendum used to argue for precisely that, particularly among my federalist friends who used to say we need to find associate status for the united kingdom: in the market but outside everything else. i understand that people are affronted, that the referendum has jangled nerves, but surely that’s still the best outcome for both sides.
mr president, the european union has rightly prioritised the issue of cybersecurity, in my opinion, for some time. cybercrime is costing the eu citizens and businesses throughout. the barroso commission in 2013 said one of the strategic priorities on cybersecurity was to drastically reduce cybercrime. this remains a noble aim. but sadly, the reality is that cybercrime has grown five times within the last four years, and this is expected to grow even further in the coming years. we need to ensure our intelligence agencies and police forces across europe have all the necessary tools and comprehensive policy framework to take on these criminals. equally, it is vital that we continue to raise the awareness among citizens of the importance of protecting their data against viruses and malware. while the united kingdom will be leaving the european union, we are not leaving europe, and it is vital that we continue to work together, particularly on issues of security and cross-border crime. hackers and other criminals seeking to attack us do not make a distinction between the eu and non-member states.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i speak for my group, but also with ms gräßle i co—chaired the delegation last week to slovakia. this was a difficult delegation, and i think we both express our shock and sympathy to the family and friends of ján kuciak and his fiancée, martina kušnírová, for their loss, and we did so at their residence, which was a very moving moment. i think the entire delegation understood, in that moment, that this attack to silence journalists has shocked the entire country, and it is right that the european union sends a delegation and tries to understand why this silencing of journalists anywhere in the eu is in fact an existential threat both to that country and to the european union, as has been expressed. together with my colleague ms gräßle, we had the task of trying to understand what was happening in the country. we spoke to journalists, to ngos, to representatives of the protesters, right through to the prime minister, president and all of the ministers and, as ms gräßle will say, to the highest audit and agricultural payment agencies’ authorities. we tried to understand what was happening. but this debate centres very much on the question of press freedom. what i would have to say is that from the journalists we understood that they regard themselves as free to express what they want to express. but also in our investigation we understood that there were also threats existing before ján kuciak was murdered, and this investigation is an urgent one. for this reason, as commissioner king has mentioned, there is a lot of cooperation with outside agencies. but we would urge not just assistance from europol, but we would request – and we did request in slovakia – that there is a joint investigation team and that there is that level of urgency and an opening of the investigation so that there is maximum trust and people see that the investigation is as open and as trusted as it can be. the question of fundamental rights and press freedom is one for this whole house and indeed for the commission and council to consider. what happened to ján kuciak is something that we will investigate over the coming days: the connections between the allegations of corruption that we investigated without fear or favour. i would say that the entire delegation were not fearful of asking those difficult questions. in the final sentence, if i may, i would just say that we will make those observations clear in our report. please read our report. but i would say that, if we have to protect journalists either in slovakia or the rest of the eu, we will do it.
blue-card question. – thank you for accepting the blue card. you describe a series of nations and scenarios in those nations that appear to be talking about something riddled with corruption and whole systems that don’t seem to work. would you agree with me then that, if we are talking about huge sums of taxpayers’ money going through the eu to be distributed into these kind of systems, there is a basic flaw in the system, whereby you are actually slushing money into a system which is then being stolen, effectively, by criminal organisations, be they state sponsored or oligarchs?
blue-card question. – i listened with interest. you talk about tax harmonisation and, obviously, less competition on tax, which will mean that tax rates inevitably will go up, i would suggest. are you not concerned that, if tax rates across the eu are higher, that would inevitably lead to large companies upping sticks and moving their operations into more competitive tax environments outside of the eu, and therefore we all lose out because we lose the jobs, the business and the wealth?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, tax harmonisation: an attack on the principles of competition and national sovereignty. of course, if you can eradicate competition you can raise taxes all across the eu, which is actually what you want to do. you seek to rush in this new, fiendishly complex scheme so it may even affect the uk during the dreaded transitional period. the committee even wants to reduce the threshold for this, from eur 750 million a year down to zero, over a seven-year period. we need simpler taxes that can be set at a national level and encourage competition, not an effort to stifle competition. by removing the chance for nation states to compete on tax, you inevitably increase tax levels and make us all less competitive. what is the impact of this? companies fleeing the high-tax, regulation-filled eu could move elsewhere. smaller eu countries which currently manage to actually prop up their economies by being competitive on tax, such as ireland, will be penalised. of course, when tax is increased, the whole economy of all of the eu will be suppressed and held down by this wet blanket of desire to control and to tax all the time. i hope that the uk adopts a very competitive position on corporation tax policy post—brexit. i would like to see us competing as an island off the coast of the eu that gives a real competitive advantage to business, that says: we want you here; we want wealth creators here; we are a friendly nation to people who want to make money and we are not like the eu, which is addicted to endless taxation so that they can spend on huge schemes. we, in the uk, should favour business, growth and employment.
madam president, i wonder if i might just remind the chamber that the common consolidated corporate tax base was first attempted and shelved in 2011, and it is hard to understand, or even identify, what has fundamentally changed since then. a little bit of risk analysis here: we do have two member states, ireland and the netherlands, who currently shelter the big internet giants and who do give them a certain amount of tax advantage. but the risk analysis for them is: are they actually going to support this, and are there other countries that are as yet unidentified that might react in a similar way? i am just going to return for a moment to this aspect of tackling american companies. we talked this morning about trump and what he is doing in terms of protectionism. has anyone done the risk analysis of what might happen if we implement this? equally, remember that the big entrants in the market are now china and india. are we actually sending a message to them that they are not wanted in the european union?
madam president, one of the areas the eu is not meant to interfere in is that of national tax sovereignty, yet here we have not one but two reports, tang and lamassoure, that propose eu tax harmonisation by harmonising the corporate tax base. indeed, they set a floor – a base level below which corporation taxes cannot be set. will that floor be 33% as in france? president macron has called for a binding, harmonised range of tax rates, backed by a penalty of lost cohesion funding if it is not followed. this is simply tax trespass. pity poor ireland with its 12.5% corporation tax. mr varadkar, stop exaggerating border issues for your eu paymasters and wake up to eu proposals that threaten your entire economy! for the eu proposes to abolish unanimous votes – so bye-bye to the irish veto. will plans to consolidate taxes, to share them round the whole eu, end all national budget control? that fits with the proposed eurozone common finance minister. a common corporate tax base is simply an … (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, corporate social responsibility (csr) has been defined as the responsibility of companies for their impact upon society. it refers to companies voluntarily going beyond what the law requires to achieve social and environmental objectives during the course of its business activities. the commissioner has told us how well companies of all sizes across the eu are leading the way in the development of csr policies. many companies are progressively integrating csr into their company strategies on a voluntary basis, and businesses which acknowledge that they are a part of the community where they employ people are to be welcomed and encouraged. in my own region of the west midlands we have a brilliant example of csr: cadbury’s, the well-known chocolate company developed bourneville, a model village on the south side of birmingham for its factory workers to live. it was described as one of the nicest places to live in britain. they put social responsibility at the heart of their company’s ethos. csr is not just a benefit to society, it benefits the company too, often helping them to compete in the labour market and to become an employer of choice. i would like to see the commission and member states continue to promote the voluntary take-up of csr initiatives. but let’s ensure that companies always retain the flexibility and the freedom to shape their own csr policy according to their specific circumstances and the needs of their employees.
mr president, it is not unreasonable to expect major companies to pay a fair share of tax and be aware of their effect on the societies in which they operate. after all, individuals with far less power and wealth are expected to meet these basic benchmarks. the eu’s approach to corporate social responsibility is, in fact, not all that well developed. for many years the eu served effectively as a facilitator for tax-dodging by corporations, enabling smaller member states, such as luxembourg or ireland, to strike sweetheart deals that eroded the tax bases of larger members. it is now attempting to construct a new system that will make profit-shifting and other aggressive avoidance more difficult within the eu, but this would be better done globally by the oecd. other measures to improve corporate responsibility can be implemented at a national level, so long as governments are not shorn of powers to do so. for example, rules limiting the salary of the highest-paid employee of a corporation to a fixed multiple of the lowest-paid employee could be put to national electorates in elections. too often in recent years, the corporate sector has taken refuge behind high-profile, politically-correct sponsorship schemes which provide a sheen of good publicity, which is then used to camouflage a generally ruthless approach on such issues as importing cheap labour rather than training local labour. a survey published on monday by the financial times showed that, over the past decade, the effective tax rate paid by multinational corporations has plummeted, even as the tax ramp on workers has got worse. all of us on the right of centre in politics would do well, i think, to recognise that nothing has done more to undermine the standing of free-enterprise economics than the excesses of multinational corporations. unless there is big improvement in their behaviour, it is likely to give radical leftists a way into power, bringing with them all kinds of prosperity-destroying ideas.
mr president, the eu’s policy on corporate social responsibility should include a gender aspect. here are some specific measures the commission can take. firstly, encourage corporations to increase the representation of women and lgbtiaq+ in management positions and at all levels. secondly, support lifelong learning for women at work, including trade union learning, particularly in male dominated sectors. thirdly, ensure adequate work conditions and rights for women and lgbtiaq+ people throughout the supply chains. fourthly, avoid sourcing material from conflict areas where there is widespread gender-based violence. with regard to ethics and csr, can i applaud the tireless work of the ‘art not oil’ coalition whose powerful culture and sustained campaign depicting oil soaked birds was successful in persuading the tate art gallery to dump the multinational bp.
mr president, i wanted to put on record my enthusiastic support for europass. in my previous life, before i even thought about entering politics, i discovered europass and have enjoyed using it ever since. i also encouraged the many young people with whom i used to work to use europass. this included neets, and i can report that it was a very empowering experience for them. now we have the prospect of an improved and updated europass, and what is particularly good about the revision of this online tool is the way that it will be more inclusive and accessible for people with disabilities, for example. the new version will also enable migrants and refugees to log and showcase their skills and qualifications, and their formal and informal education. we know that they have much to offer. so we now need to see this excellent tool supported at member state and european level, with a raft of socially progressive policies, programmes and resources in the area of education, lifelong learning, mobility and new employment initiatives.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i’m speaking on behalf of my political group, the s&d group. i’m very glad that a temporary solution was found to sustain the work of the european youth orchestra, as it is the only organisation of its kind that brings together young people from all 28 eu member states every year to work together culturally and artistically at the highest levels of excellence. the orchestra, established in london since 1976, recently moved its headquarters to italy. yet another illustration of the loss of cultural influence that brexit is already bringing to the uk, with the capital of culture scheme sadly excluding uk cities. since its formation, the orchestra has provided a route to employment for thousands of europe’s young eu musicians and attracted a global reputation for its excellence. the amended regulation aims at ensuring the financial survival of the orchestra until 2020, given its unique institutional nature and its history. however, it is important for the sustainability of the organisation that it diversify its revenues and increase its visibility and ensure full transparency and greater geographical balance in its selection process. we must also ensure that we use this opportunity to debate the role of arts and culture in europe’s development, and that we design stable and coherent funding schemes in the future creative europe programme. ensuring better independence and transparency in decision-making also demands better involvement of the cultural sector in the assessment and implementation of creative europe. and i hope, commissioner, that you will revisit the list of concerns that i brought to you personally last year from culture action europe.
author. – madam president, before talking about the technical side of the conflict minerals supply chain, it’s maybe worth pausing and remembering why we are having this legislation at all. because it’s not a technical issue, it’s about human rights. it’s about combating violence against women and girls, and it’s about improving governance in some of the world’s most fragile and poorest countries. i’ve been an mep for almost 20 years and i’ve seen many great speakers in this chamber. but one of the most memorable was dr denis mukwege, who came here in november 2014. dr mukwege spoke passionately about his country, the democratic republic of congo, and about its enormous mineral wealth. he made a direct link between the illegal exploitation of that wealth and the appalling abuse of human rights and violence against women, the rapes and worse of women and girls, who he treats in his hospital in panzi. i visited the hospital in panzi and if you can go, please go, it is an extraordinary place, and dr mukwege is an extraordinary man. what he said struck a chord with many of us here, because back in november 2014 parliament was examining the proposal from the commission on how to tackle conflict minerals. we had, to be frank, a rather thin proposal from the commission, which talked about voluntary measures. i’m looking at judith sargentini here, and i have to pay her tribute because she fought for many years for legislation in this field before the last elections. but when dr denis mukwege came, it did have an impact. people started to listen. parliament listened. you listened, madam commissioner, neven mimica listened, and eventually the council even listened and we brought in a mandatory system. and now we have to make that mandatory system work. we are seeing some progress. i would like to pay tribute to global witness, and amnesty international as well, for pushing us along this path. global witness published a report last summer. they surveyed a number of mineral-exporting companies, showing that whereas none reported on due diligence in 2013, almost 50% were reporting by last year, and as the legislation takes hold we expect that number to increase. but the report also showed gaps. only one gold-exporting company was reporting, and the standard of reporting was extremely weak. that’s where our accompanying measures come in. we need to work with these companies to improve reporting and standardise the content. and we need to do more. the 2014 commission communication lists 14 areas of work. late last year, we saw the first development cooperation instrument (dci) proposal come on stream, it was a good project, and what we are asking today is a timetable for the other proposals which need to come between now and 2021. we need projects with companies – yes – but also with governments. we need projects with civil society, with women’s organisations. and we need the eu to step up its diplomacy. we need to be asking these countries, when we have our political dialogue, what they are doing about the due diligence on conflict minerals, and we need to be asking our member states as well what they are doing to ensure that this legislation is implemented and that the oecd due diligence guidelines are actually effective across the european union. we need regular reporting back to this parliament, and we also need the council and the public at large to be kept informed. why do we need to do that this? we need to it because we need to make this legislation work. we need to deliver on the promise made in addis ababa on financing for development and on ensuring more domestic resource mobilisation. if we have legal channels for mineral exports, we will have better tax revenues in some of these countries. we need to deliver on sustainable development goals, not least of which is sdg 16 on good governance, and this would help tackle corruption and stop fuelling armed conflicts. most of all, we need to do it because we owe it to the people, to the women and the children whom denis mukwege spoke about and whom he treats in his hospital. it would be a real legacy of this parliament and your work, commissioner, over the last five years, if we could make sure that this legislation takes hold and is effective, and if we could see a change in the future.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, ultimately, the goal of the developing world is long-term economic growth that is sustainable and which will lead to the reduction of poverty. this cannot occur in an environment where corruption is commonplace. where corruption and uncertainty are rife, few entrepreneurs will risk their money in business ventures where corrupt officials help themselves to the proceeds, so a lack of investment leads to stagnation, and a fall in investment kills off any growth. because there is no trade parity with sub-saharan africa, the true value of the natural resources is not met, and it is all too easy for the black market economy and criminal manipulation of the nation’s resources to happen. despite over usd 1 trillion in aid from the west to africa over the last 50 years, the situation has, in fact, become worse. there is a correlation. we continue to call for fair trade with africa, and not aid. if we allow africa to develop supply chains by cutting back tariffs and trade barriers on finished and manufactured products, rather than distorting supply chains by forcing africa to export raw materials, there would not be a market to be exploited in conflict minerals. you would see professionals filling up the entire supply chain from engineering to marketing, which would improve the whole economy and force the people in power to manage their resources more effectively, making corruption much harder.
member of the commission. – madam president, honourable members, thank you for this very interesting debate. we need even greater ambition and better collaboration among public and private players to speed up the deployment of an alternative-fuels infrastructure in the european union that is available and easy to use for all consumers. we will do our share of the work and take further steps to improve consumer awareness and buy-in to this market. first, as part of the third mobility package, in may 2018 we will publish a common methodology for alternative-fuels price comparison. the idea is to inform consumers about the cost of driving for 100 kilometres in an alternative-fuel car versus a conventional car. the information will be displayed at petrol stations and via dedicated online tools, which we will help member states to develop. second, timely, reliable information about the location and availability of recharging points will have a major impact on consumer buy-in. we are therefore helping member states in collecting information on the location and availability of charging points. this information will be available at national access points, to be freely used in consumer-friendly apps.
author. – madam president, i speak in my capacity as chair of the delegation for relations with the countries of south asia. we all deeply regret the state of affairs in the maldives, not least as there are elections due in september this year. the people there deserve a free and full choice of candidates who can campaign robustly. i welcome reports in today’s news that the state of emergency there is unlikely to be extended, and i hope that turns out to be true. the issue of the judicial system is crucially important in events there and, looking at some of the recent events, many of us are left wondering about certain legal decisions and what has motivated them. there is a need for a credible and consistent system of justice, which is able to operate independently, regardless of who brings a case or who is accused. courts should never be a political instrument for political parties, so we need the whole system to be free of harassment, intimidation and corruption, from wherever that comes. there is not only one source in this.
author. – madam president, it is now almost three years since our first resolution in this parliament in relation to the political crisis engulfing the maldives. that resolution was a response to the 13-year prison sentence handed down to the country’s first democratically-elected president, mohamed nasheed, on trumped up terrorist charges, which were condemned by the un working group on arbitrary detention. at that time, we criticised the politicisation of the judiciary and cautioned against any further backsliding on the rule of law. three years on, the situation has significantly worsened. freedom of expression, assembly and the press have been stifled, members of parliament and protesters have been routinely arrested, and now we see the country under state of emergency rule aimed at strengthening president yameen’s hold on power. aside from the urgency of these domestic issues, we have seen repeated accusations of maldivian-flagged vessels involved in oil transfers to north korea and reports of an increasing numbers of citizens being recruited by isis/daesh. it is vital that we see an end to the state of emergency now, see all elected members of parliament allowed to take up their seats, and find a course to ensure that genuinely free and fair elections can take place as scheduled in september 2018, with opposition candidate nasheed being allowed to stand. we, in the european union, must continue to apply pressure to achieve this outcome, and i welcome today’s resolution.
author. – madam president, my group is alarmed with the deterioration in human rights, democracy and rule of law in the maldives, particularly in the run-up to the presidential elections. a functional parliament and an independent judiciary are fundamental pillars for a working democracy, therefore any interference with the work of the supreme court is unacceptable in a country that calls itself a young democracy. we call for the immediate lifting of the state of emergency and the implementation of the supreme court order to reinstate opposition mps and release political prisoners. the state of emergency cannot be used as an excuse to violate the constitution and crack down on members of civil society, the media, judges and political opponents. we encourage the regional actors to play a positive role in helping to resolve the political crisis in the maldives. if the situation does not improve, we ask the eu to consider targeted measures in order to promote human rights and democratic principles. it is time for president yameen to stop ruling with an iron fist and enter into a genuine dialogue with opposition parties and civil society, ensuring free and fair elections. it is in the interest of all maldivians.
madam president, a decade ago the first democratic elections and the adoption of a new constitution provided important cause for optimism on the path chosen by the maldives. democratic transitions take time, but as someone who has consistently called for strong eu support for the maldives, it pains me to see the turn that has been taken over the past few years. opposition, journalists, human rights activists, face attacks from authorities and extremists, and the recent state of emergency further encroaches upon the vital rights and freedoms. so my questions to the commissioner are: what measures can we take to support the un-facilitated dialogue between all parties in the maldives in the run-up to the elections that have to take place this year? secondly, do you share the concerns over reports that china has despatched a fleet of 11 warships to the east indian ocean in a sign of support to the maldivian authorities, further increasing military build-up in the south china sea? i would say it is crucially important that we have regional actors who are at play, and it is important that we get support for the s&d amendment.
madam president, i was humbled to meet salih mahmoud osman last december when he came to visit the european parliament. ten years after receiving the sakharov prize, the arrest of mr osman is unacceptable. as part of a crackdown against free voices in sudanese society, peaceful protesters demonstrating against rising prices are arrested. the situation in the country is very worrying, as widespread violations of human rights are reported on a daily basis. the high representative must use all means at her disposal to urge the sudanese authorities to release mr osman and all political prisoners. i also repeat my call to the eu and member states to step up efforts in presenting mr al-bashir to the international criminal court. he must be brought to justice regarding the grave accusations of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity filed against him. i would also like to thank ngos such as front line defenders and waging peace, without whom we could not do our important work of standing up for human rights. waging peace in particular drew attention to boris johnson’s support of the uk-sudan trade and investment forum, billed as ‘an opportunity for foreign business and investors’. be quite clear: there must be no trade that disregards human rights.
madam president, i am speaking on behalf of my colleagues, julie girling, molly scott cato, and myself. we all represent salisbury, in the south-west of england. it is also the city where i live. as british pro-eu meps, the brexit resolution meant this has been a difficult week, but the unwavering solidarity ... (interruption by the president)
madam president, as i said, as british pro-eu meps, the brexit resolution meant this has been a difficult week, but the unwavering solidarity we have received from this chamber, in the face of the nerve agent attack, has been deeply appreciated. our constituents will be reassured by your determination to work with us to ensure their future security. (applause)
madam president, can i ask whether ms moody condemns her party leader for not condemning what is going on in russia, and i would say to you, colleagues, i’m flying to russia this afternoon ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, thank you. that was very gracious. it is a serious point of order. ms moody’s was not a point of order. this was a political speech, not a point of order, and she should not have been allowed to do that.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, thank you very much for updating the chamber on your conversation and your briefing from the british prime minister. i know that the british prime minister is extremely grateful not only for the european support, but also for the international support shown for these actions that were deemed necessary. all of us, many of us, would have wished that the solution could be achieved through diplomatic aims. we wish it could have been achieved through the united nations, but we all know that russia has vetoed no less than six times any attempt to address this issue in the un. does that mean it is time for inaction? no. what it means is actually that we have to use this in a targeted way. the american president, the french president and the british prime minister have been quite clear that this is not about regime change. it is not about taking sides in a civil war. it is a limited action making sure that we reinstate international norms and rules regarding the use of chemical weapons. the previous speakers have already mentioned how hideous and heinous these crimes are: the use of chemical weapons against your population. we have not been able to solve this purely diplomatically up to now, but now we have sent a message from the international community: limited action based on stopping the use of chemical weapons. nothing more, nothing less. and let’s all be clear. whatever our views about other issues and whatever our views about those other issues that divide us in this house, the use of chemical weapons whether on the battlefield, against civilian populations or used to poison individuals, is something that we should all take very seriously. we all know that there are norms that have to be respected, and these norms have been crossed and ignored by the syrian regime. let us continue to cooperate as the international community, as well as within the european union, and let us be clear, but now making sure that we pursue the diplomatic channel with even more vigour, with even more determination, having sent a signal that the use of chemical weapons is clearly unacceptable. can i thank colleagues from across the chamber, from across the political spectrum, for their support and the support that they have shown to the national leaders who were involved in the strike.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, concerning the casus belli, on the verge of outright victory over isis in syria, can anybody explain to the world why assad would contemplate chemical bombing his own people and risk international opposition and even attack? the assad government would have nothing to gain at this juncture by the actions of which they stand accused. regarding the western reaction, virtue bombing by western powers without proof of syrian government involvement will bring no good. the only people who are celebrating at the moment are the supporters of isis and other islamist groups, who oppose assad. the clear lack of any long-term strategy in the middle east and experience of repeated failures in iraq and libya do not bode well at this time. this is hellish stupidity by the misguided, misinformed governments of the uk, the usa and france. i remind you that before this awful proxy war kicked off, syria was one of the very few countries in the middle east where religious minorities and women were respected in practice and in law. the neo-conservative hawks once again have made the wrong call, with terrible consequences for the many.
mr president, across the european union, 10% of our carbon emissions are absorbed by our forest cover. so how we manage and use our forests is of crucial importance. as well as our forests playing a key role, so do other forms of land use. agriculture needs to deliver its part and the land use, land-use change and forestry (lulucf) text explicitly refers to agro-forestry and agro-ecology, as practices that can deliver on climate change. wetlands, including peatlands, can absorb staggeringly high amounts of carbon. for instance, there is more co2 stored in the peatlands of northern england than in all of the forests of the united kingdom, france and germany together. wetlands, including peatlands, will be included mandatorily in the lulucf accounting as of 2026, which was not in the commission’s or the council’s proposals and as such it is a win for the parliament. the lulucf proposals also recognise the role of long-life harvested wood products and deadwood, both of which have the potential for storing carbon for long enough to be relevant for our climate action. increasing the range of products to which harvested wood goes, including long-life engineered construction timbers, such as cross-laminated timber and laminated veneer lumber, can help countries improve their climate action. the s&d recognises that the legislation falls short on forest land, but this new lulucf legislation means that how we use land is being recognised as of key importance in how we tackle climate change.
mr president, there are four greenhouse gases of the five that are produced by farmers, and one of those is called nitrous oxide. farmers produce nitrous oxide by cultivating leguminous crops. so the way they can reduce their nitrous oxide emissions is to grow fewer leguminous crops. however, the commission and the green lobby are so concerned about the importation of 30 million tonnes of gm soybeans that they want farmers to grow more protein crops. protein crops, by and large, are leguminous crops so this is a very contradictory message. there is another greenhouse gas called water vapour, and how do farmers emit this? they emit this because of the transpiration through their crops and their grass. the only way they are going to stop emitting water vapour is to keep the ground permanently ploughed so that there is no grass and no crops to transpire water. isn’t this a wonderful debate? finally, i would like to remind all the meps in here that forestry, which many of you have been talking about, is not an eu competence and therefore you cannot legislate over it.
mr president, i would like to thank both of our rapporteurs today for the work that they did. i was particularly involved, as a shadow, with mr gerbrandy, and i take my hat off to him because he had a fairly difficult and rather a bold approach at some points, and i know that was not in line with his own personal views. that is always a difficult thing to do, so thank you for that, gerben —jan. i just want to take this opportunity to look ahead rather than trawl through the details, and what is obvious as we reach the end of this climate package – or at least this iteration of the climate package – is that we cannot continue to work in this way. it takes far too long, we get far too involved in small details, and we lose sight of our aim. so what we need to do, it seems to me, is to put this to one side, accept that we have the mechanisms in place and start looking in the spirit of talanoa, which is about checking progress but then seeking ways to increase commitments – and we need to seek ways now to increase commitments in europe that do not involve going back through this long process and are actually there because people want to do it.
madam president, the equal pay scandal at the bbc is yet another reminder that no sector is immune to gender inequalities. following carrie gracie’s public denouncement, the extent of the pay differences between men and women in media and entertainment in the uk has been truly exposed. but we know this is true everywhere in europe and in all sectors. the creative and cultural sector, which is historically seen as female—friendly and where women outnumber men across the sector as a whole, is a sector guilty of gender-based discrimination. however, pay gap is not the only issue. in a world of images and narratives, positive representation of women is key to combating prejudice and encourage necessary mind shifts. as a cultural activist and as a feminist, i see a link between the way women are represented in our society and consequential gender-based violence. when women are absent from the public sphere, they are disempowered, objectified and subject to violence. when women are represented according to patriarchal prejudices and stereotypes, a culture of bullying and violence prevails. that’s why we need women in decision-making positions in the media sector, as in all sectors.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i would like to echo firstly my congratulations to mr enrique guerrero for his excellent report. commissioner, you spoke mainly about the future instruments and i want to limit my brief comments to the future because we just had a meeting of the coordinators of our committee and we talked about the ideas that are floating around at the moment on the multiannual financial framework (mff) and the new programmes. the key messages that were coming out are, one, that the mff should deliver on the sdgs, that there should be no reduction in the amount of funding available – despite brexit – and, if the european development fund (edf) goes into the budget and the edf and the development cooperation instrument (dci) are merged, that should not be an excuse to cut the overall amount. the focus must be kept on poverty reduction, as set out in the treaties and money not put into short-term priorities like migration because poverty eradication requires long term predictable funding. you said humanitarian aid should remain outside of any new instrument, and i think we welcome that very much. as enrique guerrero said, there should be a clear strategy to reach the 0.7% aid. there are lots of questions though that our colleagues have and i’m sure we’ll have time in the next few months to address those, particularly about how the reserve will work –you are talking about a huge reserve. how will parliament’s budgetary control be exercised? will we have continued new off-budget instruments like the trust funds? with issues like the private sector getting more involved, have you got the expertise inside the commission to make sure the kind of mistakes that some countries have gotten into with the private sector are not repeated in the european commission?
madam president, responding to economic, social, environmental and democratic challenges requires a collective strategy in order to achieve social justice and develop a fair and inclusive model for the 21st century, which will put at the forefront, not only economic development but, more importantly, the collective and individual well-being of citizens. touching upon all the key policy areas, cohesion policy is indeed the right tool to address these challenges. structural funds have ensured increasing economic and social convergence of european regions, thanks to a very concrete and effective model of solidarity. cohesion policy has helped vulnerable communities and regions, ensuring they do not fall behind. i saw this with my own eyes on a mission to slovenia recently and i see it on a regular weekly basis in my own north west england constituency. understanding the real impact that brexit and the loss of the structural funds will have for uk regions is crucial. that is why labour meps have called for brexit regional impact assessments, which must take account of the loss of billions of pounds of eu regional development money, funds that come directly to the poorest areas such as liverpool, blackpool and rural cumbria. the failure of successive uk governments to tell this story is shameful and other member states should not make the same mistake.
madam president, today the court ruled that 23-month-old alfie evans should not be allowed further treatment for his condition. i pay tribute to the nhs staff who have worked tirelessly for him and who care for little boys and girls like alfie every day, but tom and kay are being denied the right to keep their child alive with the help of doctors in italy who stand ready to help. what they want is what every parent would want for their child. they want alfie to be given every chance to prolong his short life. they don’t want his life to be a matter of legal dispute; they want to care for him in the best way they know how. it is not clear to me why his parents are being denied the right to decide the most dignified outcome for their own child. i hope a solution can be found with alfie’s best interests at heart; one that respects the love that parents have for him as well as the dignity and sanctity of his life. as an mep there is frustratingly little that i can do for them, but as a parent, i stand in solidarity with tom and kay at this difficult time. like millions of others, i am also praying for the beautiful, strong and courageous alfie.
madam president, media freedom is essential to democracy, but since 2009 the iranian authorities have systematically targeted bbc persian service journalists based in london and their families in iran. many of these journalists are european union citizens. in 2017, the iranian authorities commenced a criminal investigation, alleging that the work of these journalists is an offence against iran’s national security. this was accompanied by an asset-freezing injunction, preventing over 100 current and former journalists from buying or selling property inside iran. arrests and detention of family members in iran and ongoing surveillance and harassment – including threats to the children of journalists in london – continue, as does the spread of fake news designed to discredit female journalists especially. i am urging high representative mogherini to raise this matter urgently with the iranian authorities, because we must stand against these attempts to silence journalists in europe.
madam president, as a representative of a large kashmiri diaspora in the north-west of england and as a human rights campaigner, i have always stood in solidarity with the people in indian-occupied kashmir who are fighting against military occupation. sadly, the situation for civilians in indian occupied kashmir (iok) is worsening. last week, four civilians and an indian soldier were killed in a gun battle. these terrible deaths provoked further violence between protesters who had gathered. this incident occurred in a context of growing human rights violations, particularly against women. recently, the abhorrent practice of braid chopping has been used against women. these terrible attacks deny women of their dignity and are extremely worrying. the indian state enjoys complete impunity for these human rights violations and this is unacceptable. i am saddened to see, for instance, that india sits unperturbed at the commonwealth summit this week, whilst my kashmiri women friends demonstrate outside on the streets of london. i therefore call on the high representative to strongly condemn the use of force against civilians, and to use all diplomatic means in her power to deescalate the situation.
madam president, i have a comment on a very important directive we are discussing these days, the directive on combating money laundering. the fight against organized crime is a very important issue, a very important issue. on the other hand, it is always necessary to think about what the legislation actually looks like. and i am speaking here because recently in the czech republic i have been approached by czech antique dealers, people, small traders who are honest in their trade and are afraid that if the directive is adopted in the form discussed here, it will not punish money laundering but will bully small traders, small entrepreneurs and will significantly complicate their work. and we should take these voices very seriously, they are eu citizens, and we should consider whether the legislation we are passing, which is passed in good faith, can instead harm and work where it should not, namely harm small and medium-sized enterprises.
member of the commission. – madam president, the commission considers the strong, free and vibrant civil society in the eu and in all our member states as very important. civil society organisations and independent human rights bodies play an essential role in promoting, safeguarding and raising awareness of eu common values. they are also key players when it comes to ensuring the effective enjoyment by everyone of rights under eu law and under the charter of fundamental rights of the eu. the importance of preserving and protecting the civil society space is particularly clear in times when fundamental rights and values are under pressure. we are aware and concerned about alarming reports and studies, including from the eu fundamental rights agency and the council of europe, which point to a pattern of pressures civil society is facing in many parts of the european union. policymakers in every democracy should engage in a regular and transparent dialogue with civil society and independent human rights actors, both as allies and as critical minds, and support the development of a sustainable environment for these actors to strengthen their role and perform their functions independently and effectively. as reflected in the draft resolution you are going to vote on today, this also entails a positive obligation at all levels to provide these actors with adequate financial support. the eu budget can provide value added in upholding common european values such as democracy, freedom, the rule of law, fundamental rights, cultural diversity, equality, solidarity, sustainability and peace. working together with national budgets and complementing other efforts at european and national level, the union has been providing concrete support to civil society and independent human rights actors in many key areas. with a view to the post-2020 eu budget, we are exploring ways to create a values framework in the eu budget with broader funding programmes in a scope aimed at promoting and protecting eu values. we want to further enhance synergies between the current different funding programmes to give eu value an ever more prominent and visible place in our funding priorities. we want to reach a critical mass of funding to have an impact on citizens’ daily lives. in this context, we are determined to make the best of this opportunity to strengthen the added value that the eu finances can provide to support, empower and build the capacity of civil society and other independent actors whose activities promote, safeguard and raise awareness of common values at national and local level and help the strategic enforcement of rights under eu law and the charter. maintaining our civil society strong, independent and pluralistic requires our joint efforts, and we welcome the continued engagement of the european parliament on this matter.
blue-card question. – ms in 't veld, do you not think that financially supporting these social actors means that they will be beholden to governments and to the european union, and therefore will actually act in their interests rather than independently and in the interests of people as a whole? i find it utterly incredible that anybody would believe that those who will now have a financial interest will be able to act independently.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, this year is marking the 70th anniversary of the adoption of the universal declaration on human rights by the united nations in paris at the time and therefore i think it is a good opportunity for us to consider what is actually happening on those issues within the european union. we'd like to say that we promote democracy, rule of law, human rights on the international stage. i chair one of parliament's delegations and i know that the support that we give for human rights organisations in countries where those rights are under attack and where defending them can lead to torture, imprisonment, impunity for those who attack such defenders and repressive laws designed to stop such bodies being effective, is crucial and really important to keeping democracy alive at the grassroots. worryingly, i think we're seeing an increasing number of these signs in a number of our member states. legislation designed to stop the effective working of organisations defending human rights, rule of law and democracy. media attacks on the concept of defending human rights. the fundamental rights agency, talks about the stigmatization of human rights defenders. politicians who want to withdraw from the european convention on human rights and we see journalists who put their lives on the line by investigating corruption. so the european values instrument i think is an important proposal, designed to support organisations who uphold and promote the values on which the eu claims it is founded and these are universal values. this is not a selective choice. this was the choice made by those who have joined the european union and i think that that direct support is crucial and will only strengthen the way in which the european union can say that it is acting without double standards but applies the same standards internally as we do externally. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think the member has a point, and i think that at times it’s very well worth our while reminding ourselves that these are universal values. but, nevertheless, in terms of the european treaties, in terms of the charter of fundamental rights, we have also given ourselves a really high standard to live up to, and therefore i think if we are not seen to be doing that ourselves we also give other countries an opportunity to say that we speak, as it were, with two different voices. so this is why i think that the instrument is important in helping us maintain our own standards where we’re also talking to others about universal rights.
madam president, i couldn’t resist answering the point made by mr henkel. he talked about european values. it is not that european values are exclusive to the european union; it is that the european union is not just an economic entity, a single market, it is that values go along with that and they are not exclusive because we also observe universal human rights. that is the point. the point is that, with that, a strong independent civil society is essential. the fundamental rights agency recently said that ngos within the european union are facing overall budget cuts and economic crisis. ngos are diminishing, so this work by mr boni, supported by all the major political groups, is essential to ensure that that important part of democracy is supported, and supported independently. this flexible instrument is important, and supported, because it provides that distance between the ngos and the european union, but allows them to be active and vibrant. these are the core values that are shared by all eu member states, but we have a duty to support grassroots organisations that are defending human rights independently. without active and critical civil society we would not be a union based on democracy, rule of law and fundamental rights. i, myself, was a chair and a director of an ngo. i know about flexible funding, which is often difficult with regard to bureaucratic eu funding. that’s why it is essential that here, in the parliament, we support a european values instrument, which supports the work of local ngos and national ngos that are doing such important work on the ground. this is a very good moment for the european parliament and we should support mr boni’s work. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – before mr boni produced this work, we had a lot of meetings with ngos; a lot of preparation was done. this is why i say it was a good moment for the european parliament. as the commissioner has said, a lot of preparatory work was done and i do believe there are many challenges in those member states, but i think that because of that work – and indeed we are meeting with civil society following this debate – we will provide a mechanism that is more flexible than now to ensure that support happens. but you’re right to say that it will be a challenge, because independence with eu funding is not an easy equation, but it’s critical. just on this final point: an earlier point was made that with funding doesn’t come independence, but with civil society many of these ngos would simply go bust.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to welcome president macron. the european conservatives and reformists (ecr) group welcomes a leader with a bold vision and a desire to shake things up, for too many national politicians praise the idea of ever-closer union when in brussels or in strasbourg, but when they return home their support for the european project of further political integration becomes a barely audible whisper. monsieur le président, what you say in paris is what you have said here in strasbourg, and that is to be respected, but when it comes to your desire to reform the european union, the ecr group agrees with the objective but i am afraid the devil is in the detail. whilst we share your commitment to strong transatlantic relations, cutting red tape to help businesses create jobs, and the need for closer security cooperation, your vision of a european union with a bigger budget, harmonised corporate taxes, unified social policy, a common asylum system and a european minister for finance may be the right vision for france, but the ecr group feels it is not the right vision for all member states. while there will be many in this chamber who see you as a saviour of the european project of political integration, many outside this chamber do not want to see an eu dominated by just one or two large member states. they want national leaders to find common solutions which are agreeable to all member states, but what you propose, monsieur le président, is revolutionary. but rather than sleepwalking – to use your phrase – towards your goal, it should be presented to voters across the eu, with an honest disclaimer, in large letters, bold and underlined, that member states will become less and less sovereign as the eu becomes more and more sovereign, as you wish to see. all politicians need to be careful. you talk about temporary taxes but i am reminded of ronald reagan’s line that there is nothing more permanent than a temporary government programme. the growing dissatisfaction amongst voters has not been because the eu has too little power, but because it has too much. despite this power, it has failed to secure the greater stability and prosperity that was promised. countries signed up for cooperation in key areas of mutual interest with their eu neighbours, not to see more and more decisions made in one city on the other side of the continent. mr macron, we understand why you are seeking to regain the initiative. my group agrees that the european union has drifted for far too long, but by returning to the 1950s agenda of political integration you may be in danger of ignoring those who want the eu to face the challenges of the 2050s, not the 1950s. that is why the ecr group believes that the eu should facilitate nations to cooperate where necessary, but return powers to member states and local communities in areas such as immigration and social policy. but when countries do agree that an eu solution is the best solution, all countries should stick to the rules and not pick and choose, as we saw with the stability and growth pact or with the dublin regulation on asylum. the ecr group believes that common sense and proportionate regulation, rather than more political integration, will allow businesses, farmers, fishermen and entrepreneurs to compete in global markets, but we also ask for more honesty. we ask that richer eurozone governments be honest with their voters that their taxes will be transferred to the budgets of poorer eurozone countries, possibly forever, for that is the way that currency and sustainable currency unions work. like your movement, mr macron, the ecr was established to offer an alternative to the longstanding and stale political establishment in the eu. we have appreciated your honesty about your ambitions here today. while i may be one of a number of meps who will not return to this chamber after the 2019 elections, the ecr group will continue to fight for a vision of a reformed european union. we will continue to oppose calls for ever more political integration, but where there is common ground the ecr group hopes to work with you to shape a reformed european union which respects all member states and their citizens. let me just end on a more personal note. as our two nations, the uk and france, work together with the us in syria, supported by our european and international partners, can i thank you for your cooperation and hope that our countries will continue to act as partners where it is in our interests to face global challenges together.
mr president, president macron, good morning and thank you for your very interesting address. in terms of defence and security, france and the united kingdom have been the closest and longest-standing of allies for over a hundred years. do you not think that in the economic and other fields it would be helpful if france could more strongly signal its support for the eu to have as close a partnership with the uk as possible post-brexit, recognising that this will require novel arrangements?
mr president, the most extraordinary story of my lifetime has been the conquest of famine. i grew up, like almost everyone in this house, regularly watching news images of disasters caused by lack of food. now famines are exceptional and when caused almost invariably the result of human activity: of war or corruption rather than of failures of food. why is this? partly because food supplies have become more global, more diverse, there is always a surplus somewhere – we are less dependent on avoiding localised shortages – and partly because human ingenuity is unlimited. and there have been advances in genetic modification that have allowed us to get extraordinary yield out of the same amount of land. i worry though, when i look at the european union, that both of those things are being resisted here. there is still an ideological preference for local production of food, what’s called ‘food security’, but actually the most insecure thing is to make yourselves dependent on one area, and a reluctance to embrace the latest technology. we have to ask why this country, this continent which was for so long the fulcrum of innovation is now turning its back on that past.
mr president, i was very pleased to support this report today because perhaps, more than at any other point in my lifetime, we need a strong, independent and free media. and one of the key elements of that, in my view, is a media sector that itself is tackling some of the problems and challenges it rightly helps one cover in wider society. so, where the media doesn’t just talk and cover and comment on the need to smash glass ceilings, but is able to demonstrate it has smashed its own glass ceilings for women. we must also work to secure a society both online and offline where journalists can go about their work free from the fear of abuse, discrimination, harassment and violence. sadly and outrageously, it is female journalists and women who suffer the most gratuitous, disgustingly violent and sexualised abuse. so it is right that we approve this report today, not just for the sake of democratic debate in today’s need for a strong and free media, but also for the sake of women working in the media today and in the future. and that’s why this report today was so important.
mr president, too often immigration is considered good or bad. i take a different view. i see the benefits of immigration, but only if it is managed, controlled and legal. but i also see the negatives of immigration on communities if we continue the chaotic, uncontrolled mass migration policies that we see from many in this chamber and the global elites who support it. the problem with this un global compact is that it assumes all migration is exactly the same, and it also ignores illegal migration. it also says, more importantly, that international bodies should have power over the nation states to determine the setting of immigration policies across the globe. the frustration of the people in europe and the world to deal with the economic problems of mass migration is real. it should be the voters who elect parties to deal with this that have the power, not the unelected global elites or their lackeys.
mr president, the united nations wants an international compact on migration to cover what it calls ‘all dimensions of international migration in a holistic and comprehensive manner’. this is supposed to be a non-legally binding document, but the danger is that if enough nations sign up to it, it may become what is known as customary international law. so let’s be clear what the compact is all about: it is an illegal migrants charter. its purpose is to make illegal migration legal and to facilitate it in greater numbers. the united nations includes many countries that are deeply corrupt, politically and financially. they cannot provide their citizens with anything resembling democratic and prosperous societies protected by the rule of law, impartially implied. but the one thing that they can produce is more people, millions of whom want to flee their homelands, and who can blame them? the global compact is part of the intention of a global political elite to flood europe and western nations with never—ending millions of migrants from africa, the middle east and beyond. it is their intention to change the continent of europe into something else in terms of its existing populations, culture and civilisation. immigration is of itself neither good nor bad. it depends entirely on the context. every democratic nation state should have the right and freedom to decide its own immigration policy. what we are seeing in europe now can only be described as invasion and settlement: it has nothing to do with immigration policy, but is an unprecedented exercise in social engineering in pursuit of an ideological goal. if european nations need a global compact on migration, it is one for international cooperation to protect our borders and control immigration, not one to make the current situation worse.
mr president, perhaps the most important thing to mention is that both un global compacts are not binding. the quality and the importance of these compacts depend on what goes into them. it depends on the value of the compacts and that is why the first point i want to make is that the european parliament should be closely involved, as mr díaz de mera said, in the final morocco conference. the parliament should be there. we should be at the table. why should we be at the table? we should be at the table because whether you are in denial about migration or whether you’re talking about managed migration, whether you don’t want it or whether you understand, as we did, as ms corazza bildt will say, because we were in niger and we saw the suffering and the push-backs. the commissioner was there. we were in agadez seeing what migration means – millions of people in west africa outnumbering all of the refugees in the european union. when you see that and you see the demographic needs in the european union, if you want to deny it, deny it. but if we have no plan and we’re still depending on the geneva convention from just after the war and we have no plan, then say we don’t want it. but if we want to have a good-quality plan then we participate in the compact. i want parliament to be at the table. let’s be at the table. let’s be at the final morocco conference. let’s participate. it is not binding, but the quality of this depends on us. let’s be at the table, let’s negotiate. i say to the commissioner, we want to be in morocco, with my colleagues and let’s make it a holistic approach and let’s talk the talk and let’s ensure that parliament makes a significant contribution.
mr president, i am proud that the socialists and democrats group took the lead on supporting ms mogherini in her efforts to strengthen the international framework for migration. free movement is a human right, article 13 of the universal declaration. it should be protected at all levels and we must support the international rules that ensure all migrants are treated in a way that respects their dignity. it is also important to recognise and support the work of community groups who defend migrants’ dignity. in my north—west england constituency, rapar has been working alongside migrants for decades. today, they are extremely worried about the uk’s hostile environment, which pressures migrants to voluntarily return to their home countries. rapar is exceptionally concerned that the home office is now infiltrating community groups and setting up voluntary returns clinics with the clear aim of pushing vulnerable people to leave the uk. migrants in all european countries deserve to live in safe communities, supported by neutral organisations, without the pressure to return.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, it was ghouta in 2013, khan shaykhun in 2017 and only 10 days ago douma. these are the spots on the map which have become tragic names to all of us as the sights of atrocious chemical weapon attacks in syria. there are some in this house that question the evidence and many more that doubt their attribution to the brutal assad regime. there will be no cast-iron guaranteed independent sources, assad will make sure of that. but the organisation for the prohibition of chemical weapons and the un have each verified the use of chemical weapons banned since 1925. and the british, french, us and other western governments, nato and the european union have all concluded that the assad regime is culpable. the continued use of chemical weapons is wholly unacceptable, and allowing this to continue with impunity cannot be tolerated. russia has repeatedly used its veto at the un security council to stop chemical-weapons-related resolutions on six occasions since 2017 alone. such use of the unsc veto to protect tyrants and violations of international humanitarian law, or the use of prohibited types of weapons can provide, in my view, under the evolving ‘right to protect’ doctrine, legal justification for the use of military force to deter or prevent further humanitarian crises. given the potential for unintended consequences and escalation, military intervention is a decision not to be taken lightly. the targeted and very limited air strikes carried out are specifically and solely aimed at impeding president assad’s regime’s chemical weapon capabilities and must surely be seen for what they are, which is the west’s determination to deter future use of chemical weapons by tyrants everywhere across the globe.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, ms mogherini said that there is no military solution to the war in syria, but of course the cold, hard, unpalatable fact is that assad and the russians were actually close to defeating isis. i and my party, the uk independence party, have no sympathy whatsoever for president assad: he is a tyrant who is quite capable of killing his own people, i have no doubt. but isis is much worse. there is no proof that assad’s regime was actually responsible for the chemical attack, and let me quote, if i may, a higher authority on this – the former first sea lord, admiral west: ‘i think we need unequivocal proof that this chemical attack was done by assad’s forces. [...] as a military man, if i’d been advising assad, i’d have said ‘you’re about to take over that bit of territory, you’ve clearly got the whole of that area now under your control. why on earth would you do something that would bring the international forces in?” if i’d been advising the opposition, i’d have said “get a barrel of chlorine gas here, at some stage there will be bombs dropped on you – when that happens blow it up and we can blame them, because what we really want is the allies coming in’.”’ yesterday, in this chamber, we had meps who would normally condemn president trump out of hand warmly supporting him because he is dropping bombs on the assad regime. all they were doing was virtue signalling to the rest of the world that they oppose chemical attacks on civilians. well, who doesn’t? but who actually did it? what this parliament should have been doing yesterday was actually asking questions: ‘what proof is there that assad did it?’, ‘who benefits from this attack?’, instead of making statements that they can’t substantiate, and mr tajani said that this house was overwhelmingly supportive of the bombings. well, it wasn’t. there were three groups that actually spoke against it, and if we are sensible about this we should not just be knee-jerk reacting to these terrible attacks, but actually asking questions on a very serious matter: who ultimately benefits? (applause)
mr president, the reports from douma point to an attack carried out with chemical weapons in full contravention of international humanitarian law. the evidence of the deaths and suffering inflicted by the gas attack, including young children, is horrific. in retaliation we have seen the response from the us, uk and france. it is regrettable that these countries have launched further military action in syria, which could lead to an uncontrollable escalation that puts more civilians in even more acute danger. it is also deplorable that the british government’s decision to take part in the air strikes was not brought to parliament for approval. rather than further military intervention, what is urgently needed is a coordinated international initiative to achieve a ceasefire, de—escalation and a negotiated political settlement. the syrian—led constitutional committee under un auspices should be implemented now, as a priority. it is high time that all parties in this conflict put their agenda aside and the interests of the syrian people first. over 400 000 syrians are estimated to have died in this conflict. the un estimates that 13.5 million syrians are in need of humanitarian assistance. their world has been destroyed. we should all work together to give them a dignified future.
madam president, we cannot turn a blind eye to the use of chemical weapons. in that respect, the targeted strikes by the us, the uk and france, staking out chemical facilities, sent an important signal. but this is not a mission accomplished. we do need a larger strategy and we need to implement it. so my question to the external action service is how we will use the momentum to deliver this at both eu and un level, ensuring that next week’s conference on syria is not just a funding exercise, but underpinned by a strong diplomatic initiative. what will we do to revive responsibility to protect the doctrine at the un and bring credible pressure to bear on russia to engage in this process? yesterday’s foreign ministers’ council’s conclusions deplored assad’s social engineering, closing off the path to a credible transition. what measures are we taking at un level to ensure that aid and reconstruction reform is not dictated by assad, one possible approach being to implement recommendations offered by the martin griffiths report?
on behalf of the vice-president of the commission / high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. – madam president, yesterday the foreign affairs council discussed the challenges that we are facing in our relations with russia. the foreign ministers shared a common assessment of the challenges for the european union’s relations with russia. we have seen an evolving pattern of challenging russian behaviour in many different fields. central to these challenges is, of course, the situation in ukraine, where russia’s illegal annexation of the crimean peninsula and at the same time the destabilisation of eastern ukraine continue to this day. other areas of challenging russian behaviour obviously include the russian posture in syria, which you discussed earlier today, just an hour ago, and also the issue of disinformation and interference, hybrid threats, malicious cyber activities, and military posturing. the space for independent political voices and civil society in russia is shrinking, and respect for human rights and the rule of law is waning. at the same time, russia is our neighbour and an international actor that we must deal with and talk to, not least as a permanent member of the un security council. yesterday, the foreign affairs council reaffirmed that the five guiding principles agreed two years ago continue to be the most balanced, dynamic and effective framework for managing our relations with russia in the current circumstances. firstly, the full implementation of the minsk agreements remains a key element for any substantial change in eu-russia relations. we will continue to support the work of the normandy format. yesterday the foreign affairs council looked at ways in which the european union can help more to work for the full implementation of the minsk agreements. this includes action at the political level, as well as concrete humanitarian action on demining and the preparations for reconstruction in donbass, all within the un framework when the time comes. secondly, we will continue to strengthen relations with our eastern partners, especially after the very successful eastern partnership summit that we had in november 2017, and also with our central asian partners, in anticipation of our new central asia strategy, which i discussed with you in plenary last month. we will purse a policy of transparency towards russia on our cooperation with our eastern partners, exploring cooperation in areas of mutual interest. our eastern partnership is not an alliance against anyone; it is not about spheres of influence or confronting partners with binary choices. it is a positive partnership that is delivering on our citizens’ needs and aspirations, both within the european union and among our eastern partners. thirdly, the salisbury attack has made it painfully clear that we need to reinforce our own resilience within the european union. the eu gave a strong and united response to this attack. in its conclusions on 22 march the european council condemned the attack in the strongest possible terms and expressed unqualified solidarity with the united kingdom in the face of this grave challenge to our shared security. ms mogherini, the high representative, recalled the head of the eu delegation to moscow for consultations, following which most member states took coordinated bilateral measures. a strong signal has been sent. at yesterday’s foreign affairs council we also discussed how the eu and its member states will take forward the european council’s decision to strengthen resilience to chemical-, biological-, radiological- and nuclear—related risks, as well as to bolster capabilities to address hybrid threats, including in the areas of cyber-based strategic communication and counter-intelligence. all institutions have a critical role to play in these efforts. fourthly, as you know, we have a policy of selective engagement with the russian federation in areas in which we believe this to be clearly in the european union’s interest. yesterday member states agreed that this is still a very valid principle. we must continue to apply it, primarily in the areas of foreign and security policy: from the nuclear deal with iran to the middle east peace process, from afghanistan to the situation in the korean peninsula, or to other global issues such as climate change, the environment, migration, counterterrorism, or cooperation in the arctic or certain regional issues. all of these are strategically important for europe and our citizens. last – but certainly not least – we discussed ways to provide even more effective support for civil society and human rights in russia, as well as for people-to-people contacts, with a focus on youth, the most important hope for any society. we are looking into a significant increase in eu funding for civil society and human rights in russia, but will also engage in other ways to send the clear message that the eu is open and supportive to the russian people. so, once again, the foreign affairs council has confirmed the unity of the european union in our overall approach towards russia. it is both a principled and a pragmatic approach that takes into consideration both our interests and our values. as we look ahead, we call upon the european parliament to continue to support all the strands of eu action towards russia. unity among member states and eu institutions is a very strong signal to russia. but it is also a strong signal to our citizens that the european union is there to protect our beliefs and our interests. thank you for your attention and i look forward to our discussion.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, listening to today’s speeches, which revolve around the usual platitudes, a thought has struck me. under the tenure of the high representative, relations between the european union and russia have steadily worsened to the point where we hear comments that the situation is far worse than existed during the cold war. is this not a damning indictment of her diplomatic skills? whatever the provocations, i believe the high representative’s first duty is to ensure the security of european union citizens. that she is manifestly unable to do so simply reinforces my country’s wise decision to brexit and accordingly secure control of our own foreign and defence policy. our approach to russia needs to be multi-layered and must take account of russian national interests. through your neo-colonialist desire for european union expansion, as well as the militarisation of your capabilities, you have put yourselves on an unnecessary collision course with russia that can only end in tears. (applause in some quarters)
on behalf of the enf group. – madam president, is this place determined to have an economic war with russia? your sabre-rattling grandstanding drives more geopolitical alliances. russia, iran and syria are fast becoming firm allies and an economic force as well. you condemn russia for their human rights and lack of democracy and rule of law; you are trying to punish eu states for electing governments. yet you court china, a country that has no elections, restricts social media and murders and tortures its own citizens, such as the falun gong. you have double standards and a dangerous and warped sense of what is right. this morning, the socialists call for ms mogherini to have more powers. that is like putting a child in charge of air traffic control, resulting in lethal chaos. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question from mr coburn under rule 162(8)) yes, at least i won’t get some nonsense from him.
blue-card question. – how kind of you; you haven’t heard the question yet! i just wonder if you agree with me that great britain getting out of the european union is something that might add something to europe – that we can have a counter—view from britain every time europe makes mad decisions under ms mogherini and her crew. i wonder if you think that might be something that is going to be an advantage to the european union, as well as other places – that we can bounce europe and the united states with some sensible views?
blue-card answer. – yes, i absolutely agree, but what we have to remember is that this place is not europe: this place is a european union which is actually crumbling before us with the populace. macron talked about democracy this morning, but my group was not allowed to respond to catch-the-eye. across europe, you’ve got poland, hungary, italy; my country brexiting; in germany, you haven’t got a government yet – it is still in abeyance; in italy you haven’t got it. so absolutely, the european union will fall. europe will reform, and we will become a europe of [...] (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, president putin’s re-election is not just remiss for democracy in russia, given the lack of space for credible opposition, but also for the global rules-based order. the list we have already heard is long: last month’s chemical attacks in salisbury, russia’s support for the assad regime – which has turned on its own people, the series of cyber-attacks – the us and the uk yesterday issued alerts, continued interference in ukraine, and meddling in elections policies across the globe, including brexit. yet the eu’s response so far has been marked by weakness through divisions and thanks to populist governments rejoicing in these grave breaches of sovereignty and international law, as demonstrated by the failure to adopt sanctions yesterday. commissioner, i would like you to pass on our thanks to the high representative and to the council for standing with the british citizens following the salisbury attacks in my colleague clare moody’s constituency. we appreciate that, but my question to you is, how would you build ... ? (inaudible)
madam president, the solidarity that the eu has shown towards the uk regarding what happened to the skripals in my home city of salisbury was truly appreciated. the use of a nerve agent in a european country could not go unanswered, and the united european response was both a justified response and a preventative action. but the use of a nerve agent is not the only difficulty that we are facing emanating from the current russian regime. we also know that we are facing state—sponsored cyber attacks, such as the notpetya malware, and we have to face up to the orwellian disinformation that is being used to try to undermine both our eu democracies and our eastern partner countries. yes, we should do all we can to encourage people—to—people contact – our problem is with the russian regime, not the russian people, but we must be honest about the reality of the intentions and the actions of putin and respond accordingly.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, a unique opportunity now exists to take the first steps towards lasting peace on the korean peninsula. president trump’s decision to accept north korean leader kim jong—un’s invitation to talks without preconditions is an unprecedented act of diplomacy. these talks are a stepping stone to further dialogue and are the beginning of a process, not its end. we are at a point where a 64-year-old armistice will finally be made into a peace treaty. the north koreans want this and now so do the south koreans. president moon must be congratulated by this house. having returned from asia, i come to this chamber with the perception that the north koreans are at last willing to discuss denuclearisation, starting with a freeze. i also know that nuclear weapons are existential to the north koreans. they do not consider nuclear weapons simply a deterrent; the weapons also underpin the very identity of the dprk and reinforce the authority of kim jong-un. the fact that they are willing to discuss denuclearisation is a huge advance in the cause of peace, a peace that can disappear like a puff of smoke if we ask for too much too soon. there is another legitimate view that a step—by—step dismantling of the nuclear programme may simply be a stalling tactic to remove crippling sanctions and that the dprk regime has no intention of removing the nuclear weapons. the answer to this must surely be open and authenticated verifiability. if the north is truly sincere, it must agree to a verification system that is acceptable to the international community. the eu has a role to play here. not only will verifiability confirm a freeze, but it will also lead to a step-by-step dismantling of the weapons according to a staged process, whereby north korea becomes more engaged in global institutions and has access to the family of nations. again, the eu has a role to play here.
mr president, as the chair of the committee on foreign affairs said, i also had the privilege of being on this delegation and actually visiting the border between the two koreas. seeing with one’s own eye the most militarised frontier in the world brings home the intensity of tensions and the threat felt by the south korean people, so i welcome the clear signs of a willingness to engage from both sides, although the main onus is obviously on dprk, a helpful step that could be taken by south korea would be not to overly insist – i believe – on reunification, especially given that we sense that the younger generation sees this as less important than peaceful coexistence. at the same time, i think it’s really important that we are not overly naive. it wouldn’t be the first time that countries open up to dprk following positive signs, but that funding is quickly diverted to further development of nuclear weapons, as has happened to japan in the past. the difficulty of monitoring underground networks, equally, makes it extremely difficult to ensure compliance with any future deal. so, talks between the us president trump and king yong un scheduled for may need to be underpinned by a coherent strategy rather than motions or machismo. involvement of regional actors is key. both koreans have talks later this month, but japan, which has had two missiles over its territory in the past year, does not have a seat. i would urge that the us strategy is first and foremost informed by the concerns and interests of these countries, rather than the hawkish views held by some of the people who advise the president on the hill.
mr president, prospects for peace between the two koreas are unexpectedly encouraging. in our support for the talks, we must focus therefore on young people, who are essential to any lasting peace-building process. young koreans, on both sides of the border, have different perspectives from their elders and they should be given a voice in the peace talks. women also have a crucial role to play when it comes to peace-building, so involving them in the process is a way to ensure that peace is more sustainable and more inclusive. i am aware that the process in the korean peninsula is still fragile. however, i believe that any step forward is good – even a baby step – as it is one step closer to peace and to nuclear de—escalation. in the current global context, it is hugely important for us to support disarmament campaigns. it is particularly important that the european parliament supports all efforts at the united nations level to make the use of nuclear weapons illegal for all states under any circumstances. total elimination of nuclear weapons should be our objective, and we should put all our efforts towards achieving that goal. in that respect, i am very proud of the work of my office, working closely through parliamentarians for global action to achieve our historic resolution in october 2016, which gives the high representative a strong mandate in her dealings with all nuclear-armed states.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, it seems strange to me that the european union should have these so-called ‘financial instruments’ which are designed to support foreign and domestic policy objectives in the neighbourhood – north africa, the middle east, eastern europe, the caucasus, etc. – and to support candidate member countries to meet the standards of the acquis and join the eu, whether their populations want to or not. in relation to brexit, it calls for the ratio of spending to be increased. how is the eu going to be able to fund if one of its most important contributors, the uk, is leaving? where is the money coming from? the purpose of this money seems to be to increase eu interference and disrupt neighbouring states. i would hate to think that this money will be used in the future to interfere and destabilise an independent britain by subsidising disruptive remainer groups. we do not want the domestic and economic (inaudible) potentially booming uk economy undermined by our own money through these (inaudible) external financial instruments which seem more like some sort of machiavellian slush fund. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, let’s just go back to some basics, please, which is that essentially the eu external financing programme is designed to buy friends and buy influence. it is actually a classic display of what is called ‘soft power’. the report all but admits that it has been a failure in its purpose to promote eu values, and let me quote from the report: ‘[the efi is] inconsistent [with] implementation of eu values and partnership principles’, ‘[... the absence of] evaluation mechanisms’; ‘the lack of flexibility’. the report is concerned that the eu and its instruments face significant challenges, including political trade-offs between the promotion of values and rights and short-term security interests, numerous violent global conflicts and a decline in transatlantic consensus. hardly a glowing report. if the report recognises and cites this sort of shortcomings, what level of confidence can meps have in its continuation? finally, may i finish by reminding the chamber of the eur 50 billion cost of these instruments? (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – ms james, do you agree with me that this money does not seem to be accounted for, and that no one seems to know where it goes or what it is used for? would you like to elaborate on that? what do you think?
blue-card answer. – mr coburn, as a colleague, thank you very much, but we have seen this all too often with other areas of expenditure. it is interesting, isn’t it, that in terms of transparency and scrutiny far too many of the financial expenditure reports this chamber looks at are equally as critical and equally lacking on the detail that would give us as meps confidence to sign off.
madam president, this is inevitably a technical report but, as the rapporteur has said, there is a fundamental principle at stake. parliament plays a vital role in the effectiveness of european action. part of that role is holding the commission to account. the commissioner’s statement said much on needing to be flexible and needing to make the funding more flexible in order to fit evolving priorities, on the face of it a very reasonable proposition. but what was not explained was how, or who, would set those priorities or the means of delivering them. presuming a mechanism is put in place to determine that prioritising process, then that is when we should discuss in detail the best use of the funding. however, today it is important to be clear that the parliament has a red line: parliamentary scrutiny. the commission must come up with a clear proposal that meets that red line.
madam president, i want to speak about the proposed merger of the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr) with other financial instruments, because this continues to be of great concern to those of us who care about human rights. the eidhr is a one-of-a-kind programme. it is the largest human rights and democracy fund in the world, and was established by us – the european parliament – in 1994. it is the only current programme that provides independent and impartial funding to civil society and human rights defenders, including protection and support for human rights defenders at risk. it is unique among eu external action instruments. many organisations and individual human rights defenders will simply not be able to access funds without it. the maintenance of a dedicated, separate instrument would also allow for better parliamentary scrutiny of funding, with greater accountability and transparency. a separate instrument for human rights and democracy guarantees funding for these key priorities in european external action and promotes key aspects of sustainable development, societal resilience and the root causes of migration.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the rationale for closer links between the eu and australia require little explanation. it is a country that, apart from its geographical position, could easily and seamlessly become a member of the european union itself. the framework partnership agreement (fpa) provides now a formal underpinning by ministerial meetings to enhance cooperation and coordinate policies, and will see us working together to combat shared challenges – whether that be fighting the effects of climate change or combating international terrorism. alongside the fpa, we are also seeing negotiations progressing for an eu-australia free trade agreement. these efforts also mark a wider engagement by the eu in the pacific region, and we already see plans moving ahead for ftas with new zealand and japan to complement existing ones with singapore and south korea. sadly, my country, the uk, has failed totally to appreciate the importance of the 62 ftas negotiated by the eu, preferring – via brexit – to go it alone as ‘global britain’. i continue to regard brexit as a selfish and destructive act against a peace and prosperity project: the eu. i also have no doubt that the hopes from some brexiteers to see the anglosphere and the commonwealth become a cohesive economic bloc to substitute the eu as our main trading partner are pure fantasy. today, we see what the eu is really doing: concluding meaningful trade and political partnerships and relationships with countries across the globe that share our values throughout the whole world, so i too fully support the excellent millán mon report on eu-australia relations.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, commissioner, thank you. i hope you will bear with me whilst i make some rather general comments that are possibly somewhat personal in nature as well. ms delvaux, i would first of all like to thank you for doing this tremendous work on behalf of our committee in this parliament. in particular, thank you for always listening to the suggestions that i had to put forward – not always agreeing, but that is your prerogative – but thank you for at least being open to the ideas that i suggested. for a number of years, i held the brief on subsidiarity and proportionality on behalf of the committee, and the confidence of my fellow meps across the group always was a sign of real strength when it came to presentation of this matter in parliament. there are a number of issues on which i could not agree with you this time round. however, i will not vote against the report, because we are where we are. it has always been my position that we actually need to tie the national parliaments into our legislation-making and decision-making processes, otherwise we end up in the situation that my country is in today. this is the very last opportunity i have to address this house on this particular matter, but we end up with an ‘à la carte’ europe, where what is popular is claimed by the governments for themselves, and what is not popular is placed at the doorstep of the european parliament. we cannot allow that situation to continue. make the parliaments responsible; tie them into what we do here. thank you.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, when the eu27 adopted the framework for a future relationship with the uk i’m sure there was a sigh of relief on both sides of the negotiating table, for now we can start, stop talking about the past, and focus on the future. you mentioned, mr tusk, how important free trade is. i have one request, and i speak also for the rapporteurs from the other two or three big political groups: we are concerned that while there is a focus on eu-japan, which is absolutely correct, please do not demote the importance of the eu-singapore agreement. we should have signed this in the last parliament but we delayed it on the eu side, and we really owe it to the singaporeans to get on with that trade agreement. let us also focus on a trade agreement between the eu, the world’s largest trade bloc, and the uk, the world’s 5th or 6th largest economy. as manfred himself has said, as we look at the global challenges there will be occasions when it is in both the eu’s and the uk’s interests to work together. as the salisbury attack and the ensuing intervention has shown, let us also resolve to continue cooperating in those important areas of security and intelligence, because many of the challenges we face are not just european challenges but global challenges. my hope is that, as we look to the future, we will see both an outward-looking european union and a truly global britain.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, for brexit voters this whole thing is a slow, endless agony. we didn’t vote for a transition deal, we voted to leave. now, i’m not the least bit surprised by the intransigence of mr barnier and the eu’s negotiating team. they have got to defend their empire, which is coming under sustained assault from voters everywhere, in particular the recent wonderful results in hungary. but in the face of all of this the british have blinked, and you get the impression that the prime minister doesn’t really believe in brexit, she’s just carrying out the will of the people. i’m concerned that we’re headed for a really very bad deal from a british perspective. we’ve already conceded too much money, too much authority for the european court of justice and we’re betraying our fishing communities. and open-door immigration, the primary reason we voted brexit, continues with no end in sight. we’re headed for brexit in name only, so i’m pretty frustrated and i think 17.5 million people are too, but there is one bit of really good news. the george soros-funded attempt, headed up by tony blair and others, to get the british to have a second referendum – you know, the old trick that was tried on denmark and ireland in the past – that has now run into the ground. there isn’t going to be a second referendum and we are going to leave on 29 march next year. the historic break is coming, and once we’re a sovereign country once again we will be able to unpick this mess. so there’s more good news than bad news.
mr president, in the uk, trade, the economy and jobs are booming. you are welcome to your high taxation policies. we can, and will, compete with you. you want the socialists’ idea of a corporate tax hike and harmonisation, digital taxes, green taxes, and a financial transaction tax. go ahead. it will be another nail in your coffin. no competition means low tax and growth and prosperity and, as you say, a non—member state cannot have the same rights as a member state. excellent. we don’t want to be a vassal state in a protectionist trade racket that is moving to the abolition of the nation state. on syria and russia your solidarity is fake. you know full well there is no conclusive proof of what happened in salisbury and douma. just admit it: you actually hate and fear russia. on populism, i wonder how you think you can stop this. the people have votes. do you want to curtail that right and freedom too? the voters are rejecting your policies across the eu and this parliament will have a very different make—up in 2019. in here, most of you are dinosaurs, and you know what happened to them!
mr president, the deal reached in the march council on brexit represents an important staging post in delivering the referendum result. the transition offers some clarity to businesses and paves the way for key talks in future trade. but it is far from perfect, not least for british fishermen. we have made progress, but we are not past the point of no return for a no-deal scenario. those who talk up a hard border between northern ireland and the republic of ireland cannot rationally claim that the answer is a new vastly more problematic border between great britain and northern ireland. the dup is clear: there will be no barriers within the united kingdom’s internal market. the eu must move away from the notion of special treatment to smart solutions. an ambitious free-trade deal and customs partnerships can remove the vast majority of friction at every land and sea border between the uk and the eu.
rapporteur. – madam president, i will talk on parliament’s discharge. first of all, i wanted to thank all the shadows and the staff involved in the discharge. at the start, i wanted also to say that there have been improvements in the performance of parliament’s own budget. there was a positive report from the court of auditors on heading 5, and spending was not affected by material error. in terms of individual improvements in the budget, we’ve seen the driver service being brought in-house successfully, and we’ve had lots of comments about the improvements made there. we now have a road map for gender equality. the gym in brussels has been reopened after a long closure. on harassment, the secretary-general has agreed to set up a network of confidential counsellors which is welcome. an mep portal has been established. there’s a new ict project improving services for members and local assistants. work on improving security in and around parliament has been undertaken and an environmental policy covering parliament has been accepted by the bureau. all good things, and all things we should welcome. however, there remain some concerns. there were lots of amendments submitted on parliament’s voluntary pension fund. we’ve seen those amendments. some of those amendments were realistic, some were not so realistic, and on this we are awaiting the bureau’s response to the secretary-general’s proposal. and on this difficult issue, i think we need to spend a little bit more time considering the options which are available to us. we are also aware that the bureau set up a working group to talk about the issue of general expenditure allowance (gea), an issue we talk about every single year in the discharge process and on this again we await the bureau’s final proposal and an agreement. but as a minimum, the policy should include having separate accounts for the gea whose seats should be kept, and unspent amounts of the gea should be returned at the end of the member’s mandate. we should insist that these are at least the minimum which should be required. we also still of the difficult issue of the single seat, although recently parliament has voted to have a single seat, many, many times, and no doubt parliament will continue to vote to have a single seat, and we await some action on that. in addition to that, we need a proper building strategy, particularly for the phs building in brussels. we understand it is not easy. it is a difficult issue and the matter of the building policy is made even more difficult by the issue of brexit. on accredited assistants, there are some who missed out on eu pensions because they have not been employed for ten years. they feel particularly badly treated, and this issue deserves some attention. also trainees who don’t get up but up-front mission payments is another issue. this seems particularly unfair to the lowest paid, and again, we need to see some action on this. finally, we need to address the delays in pay and expenses to local assistants. hopefully, all these issues will be addressed in the near future. i would say, perhaps, just in conclusion, that in the committee on budget control we had a long debate on parliament’s own discharge, and thanks to the secretary-general for his input into it. we emerged from that debate with a widespread consensus. there was great cooperation amongst the groups, or most of the groups, and this was reflected in the big majority in the committee to grant discharge for parliament’s own budget. i hope later today we will again see a large majority to give parliament’s budget discharge.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank the staff of the cont committee, the group staff and my own staff for working on the parliament’s discharge report with me. on the individual issues which have been raised, i wanted to mention just two again: one is the voluntary pension fund, and one is the gea transparency issue. both of these are difficult issues, and both issues, i believe, require further work in the future if we are to get a final solution to these problems. but for the time being, i would hope that colleagues will support the wording on these issues in the discharge report. these words have been chosen very carefully to try and reach a compromise amongst all the different views we have in parliament. i hope colleagues will accept this wording as a good compromise, for the time being, until we get a solution in the future. finally, mr president, i think we should mention the level of scrutiny given to the parliament’s own budget and, indeed, the scrutiny given to the whole eu budget. probably much more scrutiny is given to our budget than to member states’ budgets. that is right, of course – we should scrutinise our own budget, but also i think it is worth mentioning the hard work we put in to making sure our own budget is scrutinised. we should say that, perhaps, a little bit more often. having scrutinised our own budget, i think we can say that our colleagues should grant discharge when we vote on it later today.
mr president, for all of the rhetoric at the commonwealth summit this week, global britain remains little more than a pipe dream, while global europe is already a tangible reality. our commonwealth partners are prioritising deals with the eu, while brexit creates uncertainty in our relationships. in ratifying this treaty today with australia, the eu is broadening its reach down under. today’s vote is about boosting bilateral cooperation on terrorism and serious crime, the environment and climate change, research and development; vital questions for our societies, and this is just the start. trade negotiations with australia are getting going. whether we in the uk want to remain a significant player with strong relations with our commonwealth partners together with our nearest neighbours the eu, will be seen after march 2019. it’s in our hands and we shouldn’t think of throwing away tangible relationships for a pipe dream that is coming down the line.
mr president, i think it is telling to find my labour colleagues using their positions in this chamber to attack the links we have with our close commonwealth allies and to spread what i am afraid to tell you, colleagues, is a completely bogus idea – that we might change our minds. the decision has been taken. but if a consequence of the uk’s renewed focus on forging closer trade relations with australia is that the remaining eu27 do the same thing, that is very good news for everybody. the united kingdom wants to have wealthy and successful neighbours. the best outcome for us is that the remaining eu should have free trade agreements with friends and allies on every continent. if it had been more willing to take that approach over the 40 years of our membership, i suspect we would not have got to where we are now.
mr president, i am pleased to support this report. labour backs measures to cut the amount of plastic that ends up in our seas. in the uk alone, around 15 million bottles are discarded every day. that is 800 during this one minute in which i am speaking. last week, i had the pleasure of visiting the bewiched cafe in my constituency. it is part of the new ‘refill peterborough’ scheme, promoting cafés, shops and businesses that allow people to fill up their water bottle with drinking water for free. people using the refill app collect points each time they refill their bottles until they win a stainless steel water bottle like this – much better than a plastic one. plastic bottles make up a third of all plastic pollution in our seas, harming penguins, whales and fish. so well done to everybody who is showing true bottle in sorting this out.
mr president, it has been a very interesting debate. i have listened to what everyone has to say. the reason i was pleased to vote for this measure is largely because it gives a clearer definition of some of the concepts we are dealing with, with waste processing and recycling. i’m hoping that that is going to lead to more recycling – i’m hoping that within a few years as much as 55% of our waste will in fact be recycled. it’s going to help improve the circular economy, and that is going to lead to less landfill and better all round. we need better definitions – it helps everyone involved in this to do their job more properly.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, before going any further, let’s get one myth out of the way. there are many reasons why the brexit referendum was won or lost, nothing to do with cambridge analytica was in any way material, and we should not confuse sales talk from an old etonian with reality. nonetheless, hidden in this lengthy statement for debate, there is a very important, indeed vital, issue. let us start from the fact that mr mark zuckerberg is not as nice as he looks. mr zuckerberg’s approach to business has been well set out in the feature film the social network. and behind all the blather and misleading pr speak about the ‘facebook community’ there is a gruesome reality. facebook is a monopoly. it maintains its monopoly by a variety of predatory business practices, and one simple illustration is that facebook buys up potential competitors. this is what it did, for example, with instagram, messenger and whatsapp. but there is more. facebook makes its money – let there be no misunderstanding – from selling data and advertising targeted from that data. users do not have complete control over their facebook data, and this cannot be good. and there is still worse. it emerged in the washington hearings that facebook has what it describes as ‘shadow profiles’ on people who have not signed up to facebook, and these profiles are without their consent. such data does not get deleted when leaving, because these people had never joined facebook in the first place. in its methods of collecting data, facebook has become like a virus that you can never get rid of. this is not only distasteful, it is entirely shocking. the conclusion is clear. the problem is not cambridge analytica, the problem is facebook. and the emphasis on cambridge analytica and election manipulation is a distraction. as i said, the fundamental problem is facebook itself, the manner in which facebook operates, its predatory business practices, its lack of ethical principles, and its monopoly. in short, the monopoly that is facebook needs breaking up.
mr president, trust is a vital commodity in the digital era, as facebook is finding out now. if you fail in your service or in your duty of care or your protection of data, you have nowhere to hide – consumers will desert you. facebook now needs to explain what it has done and how it is going to protect users’ data – not just because we demand it, but because their users demand it. users may agree to share their own data on the site, but they did not agree to their friends sharing their details on their behalf. facebook needs to vet its third—party apps much more carefully, and we need to get to the bottom of what cambridge analytica were doing and what effect they actually had on election results. but the key for us is to learn from this: the digital revolution has empowered billions around the world, but it is embryonic and barriers are being tested by all in this uncertain data—driven new world. the gdpr which comes into force next month is also testing barriers. that alone brings about much more protection of personal data. facebook itself has said it will apply it globally. so let’s find out what happened here first and see how well the gdpr worked in practice – and then, when we have a full picture, assess if more legislation is needed.
mr president, i would say to mr gonzález pons that he should not worry about being from a generation that doesn’t fully understand this: the entire us senate were not aware of what they were talking about, and i am of that generation where my eight-year-old knows more than i do. lindsey graham, the us senator, asked the question, ‘do the europeans have it right?’, and when zuckerberg answered reluctantly, ‘yes you have’, this was a proud moment for our rapporteur and a proud moment for this parliament: gdpr had arrived – but, more importantly, it had arrived in the subtle way which we know. even if gdpr was fully complied with by facebook, perhaps only 4% of its revenue would go. with full compliance, it would not solve the problem. this is because we are a sophisticated parliament – as the commissioner and others have said, we have many tools for the job, not just gdpr. many have mentioned eprivacy because of the important consent equation within eprivacy, and we should really ask why the council is blocking eprivacy. it is the tool for the job. but on gdpr, the overarching issue is that we have higher data protection standards than in the united states. i want to make one clear point here, which is that we have the credibility in the eu institutions and parliament not just because we have millions more facebook users than in the united states, but because we have a track record here legislatively, because we have tracked what facebook has done wrongly for 14 years, and because we have the credibility and expertise here in this parliament to call mark zuckerberg before us to examine what facebook is doing. let me tell you – for anyone who is not aware – that facebook is powerful; so are the other platforms. the indian prime minister today is at a commonwealth summit, and let me tell you that millions – billions – of people are on facebook; it is powerful, elections are in danger and our privacy is valuable. but here we have done the right thing – let us be proud of it and now go ahead and be credible and have those hearings.
mr president, it is now clear that the democratic unionist party used a data-mining company, analytica iq, during the brexit campaign, abusing the privacy of tens of thousands of facebook users. the company has been called the backroom operation of cambridge analytica, the same outfit who helped elect trump. because it is based in canada, analytica iq wasn’t subject to the same electoral laws during the referendum. the open democracy website has found links between the companies and the tories, the british military, the dup and even russian oligarchs. this isn’t the first time that the dup has played fast and loose with the law to pursue their dangerous pro-brexit agenda. the dup took almost half a million pounds in dark money from a secret source to manipulate opinion in london, where they have zero votes and zero seats, and they then ensured that the transparency law that was not back-dated to expose their seedy deals. mr president, i just want to say that the dup has no respect for rights, no respect for privacy and absolutely no regard for the damage that their reckless brexit agenda is doing in ireland.
mr president, as democrats, we need to recognise the true seriousness of this situation. our democracies are being stolen by companies who use psychological techniques designed for situations of military conflict to sow division in our societies and distort electoral outcomes to the benefit of the rich and powerful. those who think that the naive arguments for freedom of speech are sufficient imagine the media landscape as a fairy tale world of hansel and gretel, but the cambridge analytica scandal shows us that the forest is full of wolves. for many online today, the distinction between fake news and genuine news is increasingly blurred, and this plays into the hands of those who wish to consolidate power. as hannah arendt said, ‘the ideal subject of totalitarian rule is not the convinced nazi or the convinced communist, but people for whom the distinction between fact and fiction and the distinction between true and false no longer exist’.
blue-card question. – mr boni, you said about how this is an opportunity as well. obviously, we are horrified with what happened with cambridge analytica – especially being a british mep in the aftermath of brexit and what this means we will be looking into. but you said something important about how we can look at our personal responsibility, and one of the things i have been working on with public libraries is the role public libraries can have in helping our citizens know about how to protect their own personal data. i draw the house’s attention to the work of the carnegie trust on this. mr boni, would you agree with me that public libraries can provide us with a tool, a neutral public space where we can get people to understand about their privacy and about their data?
madam president, i share the disgust of the public at the abuses by cambridge analytica and the proper false propaganda that was peddled during the 2016 referendum. i also share the disgust that many of these organisations exempt themselves for tax. there is a clear need for an inquiry in this place, and i support that call. but looking forward, it’s all very easy for politicians to bash the likes of facebook, but the reality is we need new regulations and a new mind-set of the type mr giegold alluded to earlier. this is about people’s daily lives and their ability to shop, to go to the bank, to interact and to play, and if governments force people to do things like put their tax returns on line, we need to recognise that cyberspace is public space – it isn’t a techie elite any more – and public space needs regulation of behaviour in that space. it will not do simply to say that is too difficult: we need serious legislation that looks to the future.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, of course we all want to stop money laundering. we already have many laws on fraud, theft, all that sort of thing, but they are not fully implemented and applied by the authorities. we should apply the laws that we already have before inflicting small businesses, medium-sized businesses and private individuals with unnecessarily excessive red tape and regulations which stifle business. the european union has a mania – a mania! – for plaguing business with regulations which seemed designed to rope in extra tax to pay for civil servants and their gold-plated eu pensions, rather than to prevent crime. at the moment it is very difficult to comply with all this myriad of complex regulations. terrorism is just a convenient excuse for governments and the eu to keep an eye on, and control, their citizens in an increasingly orwellian and kafkaesque european union. we are leaving, thank god, but you will be living in this kafkaesque nightmare.
madam president, across northern ireland communities continue to grapple with the active threat of paramilitarism and organised criminality. in many instances, those who previously engaged in barbaric terrorist activities have made the transition to a new form of terror: extortion, intimidation, drug and people trafficking and money laundering. i want to commend the work of the paramilitary crime task force, which in recent weeks and months has carried out robust searches and investigations aimed at uncovering and prosecuting those at the head of these criminal gangs. after searches last week in northern ireland, charges were brought against individuals for human trafficking offenses, resulting in four women being rescued by police. just this week, the high court in the irish republic ruled that funds seized by the criminal assets bureau from companies linked to associates of irish republican, thomas ‘slab’ murphy, were the proceeds of crime. revised rules on anti-money laundering and cooperation between police forces are essential tools. it is vital that they are continued post-brexit.
blue-card question. – mr gualtieri, don’t you think this is terrifying, sir – that this intrusion into the privacy of individuals is just going a bit too far, and there is no part of a person’s life which is not being looked into? i think this is terrifying. i don’t think it is a good exchange for what you are trying to seek. we have perfectly good authorities who look into these matters as it is. all these extra rules are making it impossible for business to do business, and it is all about socialists trying to crucify business people.
rapporteur. – mr president, this is a strong europe-wide response to the ‘dieselgate’ scandal. this legislation will make cars safer and cleaner and, combined with the rde testing, will ensure that a future ‘dieselgate’ can’t happen again. we have a unique system in europe: national type approvals, which are mutually recognised across all eu countries. but ‘dieselgate’ exposed some of its limitations due to the testing process, lack of enforcement and lack of market surveillance. for years, motorists have suspected that the advertised fuel performance of their vehicles was inaccurate and exaggerated. they were a joke, in fact. no one believed them, and ‘dieselgate’ proved them right. millions of cars bought in good faith had been mis-sold due to deliberate attempts to manipulate laboratory test results. to many, it appears that ‘dieselgate’ affected everyone apart from the manufacturers to blame. those affected are still waiting for proper compensation, whereas in the us, compensation has already been paid. so motorists in europe are angry, and they’re rightly asking what we’re doing about it. we should all be concerned as well about the environmental damage of this, particularly in cities with poor air quality. overall, it has undermined trust in diesel vehicles. this package creates a rigorous and transparent framework for approving and checking the cars on our roads for emissions and safety. while emissions have caught the headlines recently, our new rules also guarantee safety standards. airbags and seatbelts are all covered in these rules. new testing, too, will ensure that environmental protections are upheld. transparent testing is essential to ensure that cars are safe and clean. test results will, for the first time, be easily available for third parties online, who can check and verify results for cheating. when something goes wrong, there must be a capacity to act, and under this regulation there are for the first time proper requirements for national authorities to significantly fine manufacturers at fault. if the national authorities fail to act, the commission can levy fines instead. that european involvement and oversight is repeated in many parts of this regulation. i am naturally sceptical of giving power to the commission, but this scandal showed an umpire was needed to renew the trust that is needed in a system of national mutual recognition. the commission will be carrying out regular reviews of type approval authorities who allow cars to drive on the road to make sure that they are doing their job. there will also be a forum, chaired by the commission, providing greater oversight and sharing best practice of national authorities. once cars are on the road, national authorities who failed to do so in the past, now have to check them. hundreds of cars a year will be checked, with the spread of models and types to ensure that cheating will be caught. the european commission is also mandated to undertake spot checks on cars across the union, targeted based on information member states have to provide on their surveillance programmes. a double-check system to ensure that if another volkswagen ever happened, it would be discovered quickly. (the president interrupted the speaker because of a translation problem) vehicles found not in conformity will also be subject to a rapid eu-wide recall system where needed. i started by talking about those affected by ‘dieselgate’. for them, this regulation makes the law clear that if consumers carry out repairs themselves to faulty vehicles later subject to recalls, they will be reimbursed for the costs incurred. consumers also rely on an independent and healthy aftermarket for local and good-quality service, and this has been an issue for me and i am grateful to colleagues here for their support on this. i am pleased to have achieved improved access to manufacturer information for independent repairers. this makes the market stronger for the benefit of consumers. in conclusion, this regulation delivers a stronger, more transparent system to ensure cars on our roads are safe and clean. it delivers for car owners, for the environment and for manufacturers, with standards fairly applied and appropriately applied across the board. i want to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their work. and to cameron smith and alex davis in my office for the immense work that they have done. i put this report to the parliament and i look forward to hearing your views in today’s debate.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank all the speakers for their comments. parliament had a strong and effective team which helped to deliver this result, and that is reflected in the comments that we’ve seen from across the chamber. i want to thank all the shadows and all the colleagues who took part in this process. it’s important, of course, that we adopt the report tomorrow. i believe that this report can serve as a lasting reform of the whole vehicle approval process. i would just leave one word of warning, because i am a little bit concerned to hear of plans from the commission to present amendments to the type-approval framework in the context of the brexit process. this should be of concern to everyone in this chamber, because cars on the road today are not wholly covered by eu-only approvals. there is an international mechanism for mutual recognition of vehicle approvals, which is maintained in this report. a common sense approach would allow for a deeper system of mutual recognition here, along the lines of what is foreseen with other third countries such as japan, under the new economic partnership. instead, under the flag of providing business certainty, changes to the system affecting uk vehicle approvals would have huge repercussions all over europe. for example, a czech car, built in the czech republic by czech workers, couldn’t be sold in the czech domestic market if it had a uk-type approval. the situation is similar in germany, in italy and in spain, and anywhere there is a uk-type approval. the regulation of motor vehicles is a success story for international cooperation globally. it has been a success story for european cooperation over the last 40 years. that will continue after the uk leaves the eu. i’m very pleased that we’ve got this report today and i thank everyone for the support they gave me, but just a word of warning there to the commission that we need to make sure that we continue this cooperation and success in this area going forward.
mr president, well now there are a number of consumers who insist that their food is grown in a certain way. there are a number of farmers who are prepared to produce their crops and their livestock according to these restrictions, but they demand a higher price to compensate them for the higher costs incurred. ‘willing buyer, willing seller’, ‘the customer is always right’: these should be the mantras here, and it should ideally go no further than this. unfortunately, organic farming methods have acquired an aura of sainthood on the left of the political spectrum, because they imply a reduced opportunity for large corporations to make profits from supplying inputs. of course, this is in direct contradiction to another aim of the left, which is that food should be as affordable as possible to those on low incomes. a further complication in trying to legislate on rules and standards on organic produce across the culture zones of the eu is that perceptions of organic farming can vary. some insist on total purity, whereas others are more pragmatic if total purity means a very high cost or no organic food at all. a good example of this is the use of raised beds in scandinavia to avoid brutal ground frosts, so presumably global warming is going to solve this problem for us. here in the european parliament our job is to legislate, which includes legislation on agricultural matters. in the last few years, i’ve witnessed a very determined effort here to ban various synthetic pesticides from being used. this is done in the name of safety for human health and safety for the environment. however, this zeal fades away when the debate turns to naturally occurring pesticides. one of these, used by organic farmers, is copper sulphate, a material that is highly toxic, may cause cancer and is known to damage fertility and human organs. these are the wonders it does for human health, but the environment doesn’t get away unscathed either, because copper sulphate is bio- accumulant that slowly builds up in the soil. strangely, the commission has just re-approved its use in organic farming. commissioner, as you’re here i think we can have a deal, because if you are going to approve copper sulphate for use by organic farmers, i really feel you should be able to approve the use of neonicotinoid seed dressings for use on crops that do not flower before they’re harvested. do we have a deal here? one of the difficulties in legislating in this area is a prejudiced assumption that if a material is natural, it follows that it must be good. those of us who dwell in the countryside are keenly aware of the dangers of ergot, deadly nightshade, ragwort and hemlock. another anomaly in trying to set a standard across the european union is the underlying assumption that organic produce will be traded across the eu. why have common rules otherwise? however, if you talk to organic organisations, they want to promote local food; they talk about ‘air miles’ in a negative way, so we have another contradiction here. during my eight years here, i have heard all sorts of dire warnings about gm crops and factory farming, but the two big crises were horsemeat described as beef and, of course, 31 people tragically dying from eating organically grown bean sprouts.
madam president, i support medicine, i support education and i support vaccination. i agree that, broadly speaking, the benefits of vaccination vastly outweigh the risks, and low uptake does lead to disease outbreaks. the world health organization, for example, rightly recommends immunity levels of 95% to prevent outbreaks. but there is, of course, some evidence that in a tiny minority of cases vaccination can have negative side effects – specifically as regards autoimmune diseases. but for other illnesses, there are dangers in believing every single scare story. for one major condition, even the national charity responsible describes the proposed link as being ‘comprehensively discredited’. the correlation—causation fallacy lead to all kinds of exaggerations, misinformation and bogus claims made by those who would profit from undermining the principle of vaccination. but, ultimately, there are some risks and it is not for the state to force parents into making a particular decision, and nor should the european union mandate what nation states must do. so will i support education? yes. should we counter misunderstandings and misinformation? yes. but should we remove parental choice? no.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, this report concerns the failure of the implementation of the european protection order (epo). the epo is just one of a raft of eu legal instruments intended to bring about an eu system of criminal law. this one concerns the mutual recognition of protection orders. the whole doctrine of mutual recognition is based on the fiction that every member state’s legal system, police system and penal system is of equal standing, which is not true. the epo doesn’t work, as only seven have ever been issued. but they are just part of a whole range of legal institutions and legal instruments that ms may intends to incorporate into english law when britain leaves the european union by means of her proposed new eu security treaty. the most infamous of these is the evil european arrest warrant whereby any british citizen can be carted off to a foreign jail purely on the strength of allegations on a sheet of paper. instead of retaining these legal instruments and institutions, the uk should repeal them all when we leave the european union.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the bologna process is a form of european cooperation that suits the british attitude to europe very well. it’s voluntary, inter-governmental, focusing on a single sector and has the sensible aim of making higher educational qualifications easier to compare across countries without lurching into a mania for rigid standardisation. in short, it’s not run by the eu and is all the better for that. this could be the way forward in so many areas. we could reinvigorate and modernise nato, rather than seeking to create an eu army. we could allow countries to decide their own immigration rules without compulsory eu freedom of movement. but instead the eu always seeks to tighten its grip in pursuit of ever-closer union. it’s this attitude which led to britain’s vote to leave and which will, i predict, lead longer term to a procession of departures in our slipstream.
author. – madam president, this report makes clear that parliament supports critical engagement, critical engagement based on concrete steps towards implementing full democracy and human rights in belarus. we want to see a road map for eu-belarus relations with clear benchmarks so progress can be measured effectively. we should continue to provide support and financing for human rights defenders and civil society organisations in the country, and we must condemn breaches of these basic principles as well as fostering people-to-people contacts. the eu is founded on the principles of freedom and democracy. we must be proud defenders of those principles at home and abroad. the people of belarus have the right to expect us to deliver on these values for them.
mr president, the freedom day on march 25 of this year was a celebration of independence, but is actually a kind of litmus test for the state of democracy in belarus. i’m afraid that 2018 which has been the first year that lukashenko has permitted such formal celebrations has provided no surprises. it was hoped that there might be a marked change in the government’s approach to the repression of its people, they still have the kgb, by the way. but reports have been made of opposition leaders, supporters and bloggers detained and the independent news website charter 97 is still blocked. it seems that any promises made by lukashenko to work towards a thriving democracy in belarus are paper thin. despite eu sanctions and multiple efforts to engage in human rights dialogue, no electoral reform has been attempted and the opposition media and ngos continue to be oppressed by president lukashenko’s regime. the door is ajar to constructive dialogue and cooperation but sanctions should remain in place from the eu until real progress is made for the belarusian people.
author. – mr president, when this house last adopted a resolution on the philippines in march of last year 7 000 people had lost their lives in president duterte’s cold-blooded war on drugs. a year on, the number has reached 12 000. how many more? those who dare to criticise the duterte regime face harassment, torture or arrest, this is the fate of activists, journalists and indigenous people. or they’re simply banned from entering the country, as happened to my colleague giacomo filibeck, the deputy secretary-general of the party of european socialists, who was detained and expelled from the philippines on sunday while on his way to a political congress, because he had been critical in the earlier visit. this is not just an issue for my party. it means that many of our officials can be banned any time when it is vital to keep tabs on the situation, especially given president duterte’s last month to withdrawal from the international criminal court. a point-blank confession that his war on drugs cannot withstand scrutiny. business as usual, commissioner, is longer an option. having championed gsp+ for the philippines, it is now time to review it.
author. – mr president, just over a year since our last resolution on the philippines, the situation is, sadly, little changed. the self-styled strongman, president duterte, continues to pursue his war on drugs – a campaign that is so far estimated to have cost the lives of over 12 000 people, many of them youngsters. away from his headline-grabbing story, minorities including indigenous peoples continue to be marginalised and victims of human rights abuses. the news that the philippines gave notice last month of withdrawal from the rome statute and the international criminal court is also of grave concern, and forms part of a wider pattern of authoritarian leaders across the globe quitting the international criminal court as an act of defiance against the international rules-based order. president duterte’s comments urging other countries to do the same are particularly unwelcome. the intention to reintroduce the death penalty in the philippines for drug offenses also raises grave concerns for the future direction of that country and illustrates that duterte’s claims that he will continue in the same vein until his presidential term ends in 2022 are not empty threats. all taken together, the trajectory of human rights in the philippines under president duterte appears to be heading in only one direction, and that is not a very nice one.
mr president, i’d like to state my solidarity with people living in gaza, especially women and children, who’ve been living in horrendous conditions for far too long. those of us who care about human dignity are appalled to see how israel continues to turn a blind eye to the humanitarian consequences of its colonial policy. israel uses security as an excuse far too often, as we well know when we speak to veterans from breaking the silence. these are veterans of the israel defence forces. i’d also like to take this opportunity to state my solidarity with colleagues, who like me, have been accused of being anti-semitic simply because we are critical of israel’s policy in palestine. i was shocked, therefore, to learn that my colleague ana gomes was the target of a smear campaign, including comments from eu officials, who should have been neutral. this is unacceptable, and i support her call for an investigation into this incident.
madam president, money laundering is a global challenge and it’s being met largely with global solutions, sometimes slightly more high profile, as is the case with the g20’s initiatives, often in an unglamorous, unremarked, and unreported way among national regulators. the question is, why does the european union need additional jurisdiction in this field? money laundering isn’t particularly a problem that afflicts people trying to shift money from one member state to another. of course there is a role for the european union to support global initiatives, but i suspect that there are also people who see this as a general opportunity to extend eu jurisdiction. there is, after all, some precedent here. when the fbi was set up in the united states its original purpose was to tackle terrorism and human trafficking and money laundering. all of the same things that were set up as targets for europol and for eurojust. it is, of course, a good thing to exchange information and to cooperate, but we should be very careful before creating a new bureaucracy with power to intervene directly within the national jurisdictions.
madam president, the dieselgate scandal shows that consumers and the environment are the main victims of a car type-approval regime that cannot be relied upon and that has been subject to systematic abuse. so i welcome the fact that european union law will be updated to make type-approval rules stronger and more effective. the new rules will require member states regularly to check cars circulating on their roads for compliance with relevant environmental and safety standards. and the european commission will carry out audits of national car type-approval authorities and have the possibility to initiate eu-wide recalls. it will also be able to challenge the validity of inspection systems and issue fines of up to eur 30 000 per non-compliant car. i wanted the new rules to be effective sooner given the evidence of abuse uncovered. however, i am nevertheless pleased that they will take effect before the end of 2020, and so during the transition period currently proposed following the planned exit of the uk from the eu. but it is very disappointing that the initial proposals to break the financial link between car makers and test laboratories were dropped and that the idea of a powerful new agency providing tough oversight of the car industry across europe was also rejected.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, ireland as an island is more dependent on shipping than most eu member states. the ongoing recklessness of the british government with regard to brexit means that it is only prudent to increase shipping capacity in order to avoid ireland being punished by the likely difficulties in transit of irish exports through britain. so shipping and shipbuilding are of increasing importance to ireland, north and south. the eu strategy to deal with the economic crisis in shipbuilding has been embraced by harland and wolff, the largest shipyard in ireland, which is in the city of belfast. they have embraced innovation and technology, they are increasingly green and increasingly diversifying into new markets. a lot of the work done in recent years depends on the shipyard and the main ports in the north, namely belfast harbour, warren point, larne and, in my home town of derry, foyle port, being plugged into the european market, and they all rely on the european supply chains. brexit is hugely damaging to that plan and risks seriously damaging the industry. meanwhile the strategy of the british government seems to depend more on gunboats than on any forward-looking vision for the sector. on this, like on so many other issues, the british government seem oblivious to the consequences of brexit for the north of ireland. this all needs to be factored into the planning of the eu in the time ahead. solutions do exist to the threats posed by brexit for each sector, including shipbuilding. we have presented these solutions through our case for designated special status for the north to remain within the eu post-brexit. in that vein, we have also proposed a system of red and green channels that complement existing infrastructure at ports and could be used to address goods entering and leaving ireland, north and south. i want to acknowledge the sterling work that is being done by mep liadh ní riada with regard to protecting the goods that are transiting from ireland into britain or via britain into the eu. so this system would be used for goods transiting through britain from ireland to the rest of the eu and would therefore protect the integrity of the single market and allow for east-west trade to continue. we do not want to see the border dividing ireland being reinforced, nor do we want to see the irish sea between britain and ireland as an obstacle. need i remind members that the titanic was built in the harland and wolff shipyard in belfast? belfast city centre and its titanic quarter have, as a result of the peace process, community development and european funding, seen a transformation for the better. however, on its first voyage the titanic hit an iceberg on the north atlantic and sank. so my appeal to colleagues is don’t let ireland, north and south, crash on the looming iceberg that is brexit.
mr president, i would like to draw the attention of the house to the fact that the basque peace process group was established in 2006 in this parliament to create an opportunity to promote peace in the basque country. i believe we’re going to see advances in that process very soon. i call on parliament and the commission to seize the historic opportunity to support the upcoming initiatives that are going to seek to build upon that peace process. the path to a just and lasting peace is without doubt paved with challenges, and reconciliation can be tough for all sides – building peace can be tough for all sides – so i would ask this parliament to support a lasting peace in the basque country.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, the commission has chosen with this financial plan to live in dreamland, to pretend that its second largest net contributor is not leaving. but the hard fact is that 65 million people – one in seven of the entire eu population – is about to wave goodbye. instead of cutting back accordingly, the commission wishes to increase spending and is looking for a settlement of way over one trillion euros, financed by taxpayers from the remaining member states, and in effect, that means a handful of major net contributor nations. mr juncker could have chosen table d’hôte. instead, he has chosen à la carte, though his team says it is determined to offer a menu with prices, and i saw a quote earlier this week of eur 150 billion for a full eu border management system. at those prices, i’d stick to the soupe du jour if i were you. it all puts one in mind of the cole porter song from high society: ‘who wants to be a millionaire?’ only we must update for inflation: who wants to be a trillionaire? so who wants to be a trillionaire and have flashy flunkies everywhere? i hope mr selmayr is listening to this. who wants an army at his call and to force one currency on all? who wants to dish out all the orders and to take charge of everybody’s borders? well, mr president, i don’t, and the british public doesn’t. we just want to take back control of our own country, and that’s what we are going to do.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, madam high representative, the elections to be held in venezuela on 20 may represent nothing less than the final act by president maduro in his construction of a de facto one-party state, characterised by repression and holding of political prisoners. the legitimate national assembly and subsequently the supreme court having been neutered, 20 may is merely a coronation in a race devoid of any legitimate opposition. the collapse of the santo domingo talks made clear maduro’s intentions to avoid any real challenge to his power now, as was also demonstrated by the banning of virtually all opposition parties from these elections. i welcome the targeted eu sanctions brought in by the council against some venezuelan officials. however, these remain limited, and we must now look to widen their scope. as the energy sector, which accounts for around 90% of venezuela’s exports, begins to shrink, we see food shortages continuing and domestic dissatisfaction growing. reports that the government is looking to open up commercial opportunities for the military are also a worrying sign for the future, suggesting that maduro intends to follow what was in the past an all too common latin american authoritarian tactic for holding on to power via the army. i fear that these elections may be the first in a long line of staged elections made all the easier by the 2009 constitutional amendments to abolish term limits. i am pleased that at least we will be on record today in this house as having made our condemnatory position very clear to everybody.
madam president, i would like to thank mr novakov for an important and useful report. if the numbers in the next mff are anything like those in the first debate today – and i very much hope that they can be improved upon – then cohesion policy is going to need to be smarter. the transport projects in which we invest are going to need to deliver results, and the bottlenecks approach is the right way to go in terms of leveraging spend in the network, but in taking effective decisions, it is best that we can use the right sort of information, the right sort of evidence. there is a strong case for the directorates-general investing in effective modelling technologies that enable us to demonstrate economic return, added value, modal shift and wider network impact. also, as we work towards the goals of the paris climate targets, the bottlenecks to sustainable transport may prove to be bottlenecks in the power networks that we need to power that transport. we need to bear that in mind.
author. – mr president, i want to add my voice to what has just been said by my colleagues. we know that the response across the european union in terms of children in the asylum system and children in migration is still very fragmented. there is still much work to be done in terms of joining the dots to give a holistic response, and with a focus on durable solutions, and that includes children who are undocumented or stateless. we still do not have all member states having a statelessness procedure that really works. so progress is slow, there is a lack of resources going to the local and regional level, certainly from eu money, and i think we need to reconsider how we are spending and directing that to really get the increase that we need in training and indeed in a much, much better system. we also need to concentrate on implementing the legislation that we have because that is pretty poorly implemented in many of our member states. in terms of protection and the basics of life – shelter, food, safety – no child in the european union should be having to sell themselves to get any of those things and there are many today who do. when the legal guardian system works, it works really well. in the european parliament, we heard only last week about a young man, julien makalu, who had been thrown into jail on his arrival in the european union, but had been helped by a legal adviser and is now an engineering student at a greek university. he spoke about the enormous difference to his life that having the support of that legal guardian had made. i also want to say a last word about family reunion and how poorly that is implemented in our member states. many of our systems still do not have a real operational basis on which to cooperate across borders to make sure that children are reunited with their families.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, no one can disagree that the protection of children in migration is one of the biggest issues facing europe today. europol estimate that there are at least 10 000 missing children in the european union. how many have been spirited across borders by traffickers and lost to a life of slavery? how many of these could have been protected if there were not open borders across this continent? the european union preaches solidarity, burden sharing and responsibility, yet it blindly refuses to acknowledge that its own policies and ideology, namely the schengen area, facilitate crimes against children. unless the eu has a serious rethink on internal and external migration it cannot say in good faith that the eu can better protect children in europe.
mr president, recently in niger our delegation saw the shocking situation where nearly a third of those who are being evacuated from libya are unaccompanied and separated children. the terror that they must be feeling is something extraordinary that we should all think about. member states need to step up pledges to resettle unaccompanied and separated children who have been evacuated from libya through the emergency transfer mechanism. the pledges of eu member states are too low, but when you think of the separated children i think they should think again. ngos such as rrc point to the importance also for continued cooperation and support from the commission, as the commissioner said to greece and other front line member states, to ensure existing shelters and alternative care arrangements remain open and operational, that no further funding gaps emerge or delays in funding flows disrupt the provision of care and services for children. children should always be uppermost in our minds. the terror they face should be uppermost in our minds and we have a duty to them.
mr president, good evening to the chamber and thank you for the opportunity to speak on this matter. asian countries are the principal offenders and they all can use their considerable economic might to defy this initiative, so how does the european union perceive any action will be effective? the second point i want to raise is that there has been no mention, so far as i can hear, of cosmeceuticals. this is a hybrid, if you like, of a cosmetic with a pharmaceutical product. there are many examples readily available on the market and that aspect also needs to be addressed with whatever is planned. the third element, though, that i must highlight is that without the appropriate framework to ensure that compliance and record-keeping is mandatory, companies, academia, organisations, whatever they might be, are going to have very little motivation to ensure animal welfare is safeguarded unless, of course – and i agree with the previous speaker – there is an outright ban, particularly on companies that outsource their production to other countries.
mr president, as a british conservative i sometimes criticise the ambitions of this parliament but on this occasion i am happy to praise them, just as many speakers before me, across the political divides, have done. some things are more important than party politics. for me, a key one is animal welfare. care and compassion for our fellow creatures is surely the measure of our own humanity. the eu’s ban on cosmetic testing was truly groundbreaking. although there are still some loopholes to tighten, i am proud to be part of a parliament that is a true world leader on this issue. as co-sponsors, my european conservatives and reformists (ecr) group is now asking for the eu to show even more global leadership. i cheer this to the rooftops. if you ask people across the world whether they want cosmetics tested on animals you get a resounding no, but it still continues because big manufacturers and retailers put profit before compassion, and because we politicians have not yet done enough to stop them. so we must demonstrate by our own actions, as well as telling the world, that testing for cosmetics is a most callous form of cruelty. people cannot even pretend that it is to prevent illness or to save lives; this is cruelty for vanity’s sake. it is time to really end it, once and for all, across the globe. let us all vote tomorrow for beauty without cruelty.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i congratulate mairead mcguinness on bringing this forward, and my group is very happy to support her in bringing this forward. i think it is very timely and very good that we are debating this today, because for many, when an accident occurs on the farm, it leaves very long-term consequences and very sad families after it. i have to say there is no easy solution to many of the problems that arise, but also, many are avoidable. many of them actually happen during times when pressure is on, and the pressure can be on the farmer at times when he has to sow the seed, harvest the crops, do the ploughing, spread the slurry. that is when sometimes caution is thrown to the wind and that is when some mistakes happen. where i come from in northern ireland we have a stop and think safety policy, and that is fine and good, but i believe we could do more. i think maybe the commissioner might want to take this on board because when finance is short, corners are cut, and that is also a danger, so i think we should look maybe at pillar 2 to see how we can actually give some help to this particular area, especially in slurry-related accidents which have been very prevalent in my region. i take mr andrieu’s point, and the suicide levels as well. these are all extremely worrying to people who work in farming. and the food supply chain – by continually pushing for margin reduction – has to ask how much more can they achieve. yes, farmers must be more aware, more conscious and realistic of danger, but when you are under pressure to get it finished, the weather is changing, then they do throw caution to the wind at times.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, one of the positive attributes of farmers is their ‘can do’ attitude in overcoming the challenges of limited weather opportunities or emergency machinery repairs. the obverse of this though is a recklessness in undertaking activities that could result in death or serious injury. the thought process is ‘i know what i’m doing, i have done it before, and it’s not going to affect anybody else’, and i have been guilty of this attitude personally – despite knowing two people who died in farm accidents, and two more who lost limbs. i’ve had some near misses myself, getting away with minor injuries instead. i see here a similarity with the attitude to drinking and driving held by most of my peer group in my youth. over the years, social pressure has changed this attitude quite significantly, and social pressure could play a part in reducing farm accidents. for a self-employed, one—man—band farmer, the onus of this social pressure falls on his immediate family. using the right psychology, a great deal could be achieved here. a family discussion about inviting a health and safety officer to come and visit the farm for a chat would send a very powerful message. changing attitudes is the key to reducing most farm accidents, but money can play a part as well. the second highest cause of farm fatalities, with vehicle incidents as the first, is contact with aggressive livestock. if all cattle farms possessed top—of—the—range mobile handling and restraining equipment, i think farmers would use it. if a pillar 2 grant was available to finance it and member states brought in punitive penalties for failing to use it, then farmers would use it. i also believe that eu legislation on chrysotile, or asbestos, is making matters worse.
mr president, the opinion of the committee on culture and education on media pluralism and media freedom recalls that public opinion is based upon a relationship of trust between citizens and media professionals, aimed at informing the public and fostering a culture of public accountability and transparency, for the purposes of general interest. in order to actively and effectively participate in public life and take part in political debates, citizens need to be properly and fully informed. they need to know that the media are providing them with impartial and trusted quality information. so, in the context of an increasing digitisation and alarming media concentration, this guarantee of trust and impartiality has been proven more and more difficult to ensure. so how can we make sure the changes in the media landscape take place in the interest of democracy and pluralism, and not the contrary? well, i believe it is by ensuring that media literacy and education for citizenship, including e-citizenship, is at the top of the education agenda.
mr president, yesterday morning i was proud to stand alongside the mcstrikers on the picket line outside mcdonalds in cambridge. the young workers and trade unionists i spoke to told me that they are sick and tired of zero-hours contracts, insecurity and wages that do not pay the rent. across europe there have been mcstrike protests in belgium, finland, france and germany. we stand in solidarity. and so, my message to ceo steve easterbrook, who hails originally from watford – also in my constituency – is that your big macs would taste so much better if we knew that the workers who prepared them were getting a fair deal. better working conditions, an end to zero-hours contracts, union recognition, a gbp 10 an hour minimum wage. across the uk, across all of europe, mcdonalds workers are hungry for justice.
mr president, we’re all aware of the violence perpetrated in myanmar in rakhine state. but i want to draw your attention to another conflict. the longest-running on-going civil war in the world is being fought in the same country and is being waged by the same military. the similarities between kachin and rakhine are obvious. 120 000 civilians have been displaced; the un has received reports of military abuses, including killings, rape, abductions, torture and forced labour; and the military is blocking humanitarian aid to civilians. myanmar’s neighbours must mediate talks for a resolution. a peacekeeping mission should be appointed to kachin state. this is a military with unfettered power that targets ethnic minorities in violent campaigns. i applaud last week’s eu decision to adopt a legal framework for targeted sanctions against officials from the myanmar armed forces for their human rights abuses. we have seen the result of the escalation of myanmar’s human rights violations in rakhine. it must not be allowed to be repeated in kachin and there is every danger that it will be.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, it is quite extraordinary that we can have in this room the head honchos of brussels – mr juncker, the belgian prime minister, the leaders of the big groups, to discuss the future of the european project, and there has barely been a mention of the biggest most dramatic event that has ever happened since the foundation of the european treaties 60 years ago, namely brexit. you do not want to talk about brexit. and i wonder whether it actually ever occurred to you, mr juncker, that when david cameron came here to negotiate with you, had you given him just a few modest concessions, had you given him the ability to control our borders a little bit more, brexit would not have happened. but no, we don’t discuss that. no, what we do, is we say to ourselves that our citizens want more europe. i have heard it again and again this morning. we have a problem with unemployment among the youth of the mediterranean. i know the answer: more europe. we have a problem with growing terrorism in our countries, something that we have caused ourselves but we decide, no, the answer is, or in the case of the belgian prime minister michel, to have a european cia. we decided that on taxation, on regulation, no member state can make their own decisions, it has all got to be decided here in brussels, because we need more europe. in fact, many of you have decided that migrant quotas are a good idea, so that individual member states cannot make their own decisions, so is it any wonder that there are countries now, voters everywhere, waking up to the idea that you cannot be an independent democratic nation state – and a member of this union. brexit, i think, is going to prove to be just the first brick that is knocked out of the wall. just look at the results in italy a few weeks ago. look at the stunning results in hungary the other week. that magnificent victory of viktor orbán and about 70% of voters in hungary voting for parties that want the nation state to be the key to everything. if you really think about whether this european project can survive, or not, it all comes down to ‘what is a nation’? what is the unit towards which we give our allegiance, to which we pay our taxes, to which we would, in extremis, be prepared to defend them? there are some like mr verhofstadt here who seem to think that this flag represents a european identity – and he clearly identifies as a european, many of you in this room identify as europeans – but you are missing something. the peoples of europe do not identify with that flag. they do not identify with these institutions. there is no, oh well if you’re on the payroll it’s easy to say it works, isn’t it? but actually, out there in the real world, there is not a european demos, there is not a european identity, but there may be one exception, and that could be belgium. because nobody ever dares tell the truth about belgium. belgium is not a nation. it is an artificial creation. i know the brits did it, maybe once again we can be blamed, but the truth is there are two parts of belgium, they speak different languages, they dislike each other intensely, there is no national tv station, there is no national newspaper. belgium is not a nation. and maybe that is why you are happy to sign up to a higher european level. well, if belgium wants it, that is fine, but i can assure you, and you can scream and shout all you like, just look at the election result. you are losing votes. you are losing. brexit is the first brick out of the wall. you’ve learned none of the lessons. the days of this project are over. we want to live in nation states, not false artificial creations. thank you everybody. have a lovely time. oh, and enjoy the european elections next year, they’re going to be great fun.
with respect, mr president, i supported britain leaving the european union. therefore, with my job ending, i am the turkey that voted for christmas. (applause from certain quarters)
madam president, why do we have all of this fraud in the eu institutions that we have just been hearing about? is it that brussels attracts particularly bad people? i do not think so. i mean, it attracts some bad people. man is fallen and in every institution you will attract some people who give in to temptation, but the real problem is that there is no link between taxation, representation and expenditure. european institutions expect the bouquets when they write cheques but not the brickbats when they raise the taxes, because taxation is carried out by somebody else. that is a formula where, even with the best will in the world, you are bound to encourage a certain negligence or, as we have seen in some of the cases cited in this report, outright corruption. the solution, of course, would be to take the financial decisions more closely to the people that they affect, to devolve fiscal autonomy from an eu to a national or subnational level but, as we all know in this house, that ‘ain’t gonna happen’.
on behalf of the efdd group. – thank you, mr president. commissioner, i told you in committee how the uk fishermen feel abused. you replied by telling me that you did not understand this. if you were being honest, that makes you particularly ill informed and unimaginative. if you are not, then it makes you a tendentious, disingenuous politician embodying everything wrong with the eu and its political class. to be frank, i think that trying to get you, commissioner vella, to understand how and why british fishermen feel abused is a little like trying to explain how to ride a bike to a shark. so let me be clear, or try to be clear: if you want members to stay in a club when they feel abused, unhappy and invisible you first listen to them – especially the complaints about abuse; you have an honest discussion about change; you agree changes, which recognise their critique, especially when you know it is accurate and makes sense; and you make the improvements as quickly as you can. you do not: deny the validity of what they say; tell them they agreed to this and cannot question it; tell them that they have no justification for feeling abused; be unpleasant and nasty to them in the departure discussions from the eu, in the belief that it might cause them to change their minds or ‘pour encourager les autres’. this north sea plan exposes this place for what it is: an abuser in denial. the fishermen of britain will no longer be oppressed; the fishermen of britain will not be denied. we reject the plan. we reject the common fisheries policy. now the snp in scotland want to hand over our fishing to the eu. ruth davidson’s remainer conservatives want to hand fishing over to the eu as well. but ukip wants our fishing grounds controlled by britain and by nobody else. and i have a little book here i shall send up to my snp colleague mr hudghton for his edification, i’m sure he’ll enjoy it.
mr president, four decades of the cfp have been marked by failure, and the impact of that failure on attitudes towards the eu in our fishing communities should not be underestimated. ironically, just as the cfp is moving, albeit slowly, towards a more regionalised and decentralised model, the uk is leaving the eu. nonetheless, the provisional agreement on the north sea does offer a potential improvement in the management of the eu’s north sea fisheries. but this multiannual plan will inevitably become less important when the uk leaves the eu and when the majority of north sea stocks become shared stocks within the terms of international law. it is therefore imperative that meaningful progress is made in planning for post-brexit fisheries management and therefore that the uk government makes up its mind what its attitude will be in such negotiations. but ultimately, in my view, my hope is that scotland will choose to become a normal independent nation again, able to set and pursue our own priorities and negotiations with our neighbours. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – thank you, ian, for taking my question. we may be opponents but we always get on fairly well. but, ian, how can you call yourself a scottish nationalist when you want to hand over our fishing grounds to the european union? surely what you really are is a euro nationalist, not a scottish nationalist? please enlighten me. (interjection by the president: ‘if it’s possible’)
blue-card answer. – it may be useful to put some facts on record, and not for the first time. some 20 years ago my predecessor as snp mep for the north east of scotland, allan macartney, led in our fisheries committee a report calling for zonal management of fisheries. at that time the commission and the council, including the uk government, failed to embrace the idea. again, a little over 10 years ago at the previous cfp reform i voted against parliament’s position at that time, because it did not go far enough in calling for decentralised management of fisheries and therefore more input for scotland. again that was not embraced by the council, including the uk government. one of the principal reasons that the cfp has been a failure for scotland and indeed for many other areas is because successive uk governments have helped to construct it that way.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would also like to pass on my congratulations to the rapporteur for a very efficient and effective job that he carried out in an excellent way. the cap is first and foremost about supporting agricultural production. eu farmers proudly produce food to some of the highest standards globally and they must be able to continue to do so in the future. the sector has faced a number of challenges from all angles in recent times, such as volatility in domestic and international markets, climate and weather conditions, food supply chain issues and, of course, the decision taken by the people in the uk to leave the eu. the next cap needs to be able to give farmers the necessary tools to address these challenges so that they can support high-quality eu food production in order to keep eu farmers competitive in the international marketplace and to protect the rural economy from extreme volatility and market crises. of course, there needs to be adequate funding and i believe – and i have made this point a number of times – the biggest challenge will be the budget, and i heard what the commissioner had to say. a large net contributor does not leave you without having effects, but who knows, it would be a brave person tonight who would actually tell us what the final arrangements or deals may well be when the uk finally leaves the eu. but i certainly believe very strongly that farmers should not be made to pay the price, whatever price has to be paid. aside from brexit, the cap share of the market may also come under pressure as a result of spending in other areas, particularly security and migration. i would like to thank mr dorfmann for his work again, and i look forward to hearing what the commissioner has to say, because the future of the cap is going to be as important to the rest of europe as to those of us who will remain in the united kingdom, as it is what our future with regard to agriculture may very well be in the long term as well.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i’d just like to remind mr flanagan, who has just spoken, that farming isn’t a profession, it’s a trade. there are three barriers to preventing young entrants to agriculture. the first is access to land. in the uk, local councils owned small farms and rented them out to young entrants as a first step on the ladder. the problem was that there were so few opportunities for the next step that young tenants became old tenants and the system just froze. the second is bed blocking by the older generation. public money might be used to allow such individuals to retire with dignity and let the younger generation take the reins with new ideas. the third is access to capital by young tenant farmers. this could be facilitated by government loan guarantees. the guarantee would have to reduce in time, as the tenants should be able to demonstrate a profitable enterprise to interest commercial lenders on its own merits. the initiative by the commission to give marginally more area aid to young farmers is fraught with bureaucratic problems and open to abuse. it won’t resolve bed blocking, it won’t increase access to serious capital, and on tenanted holdings, it will just roll out to the landowner.
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank my co-rapporteur. this was very much a team effort, not just between two co-rapporteurs but between two committees and indeed among multiple political groups. our task, of course, was to assess the implementation of this important interinstitutional agreement that we made with the commission and the council two years ago and, overall, our assessment is a positive one, even if there are still two strands being negotiated on international agreements and on the delimitation between implementing acts and delegated acts – they will come back to this parliament – but what has been agreed so far has, on the whole, been well implemented. we have moved to having greater transparency in the legislative process. we have moved towards having better legislative planning. we have moved to improve our legislative procedures. we have improved the consultation of stakeholders and we have looked at and improved the process of impact assessments, which are very important. all this, of course, is a question of getting the right balance and take impact assessments and the whole issue of what we are trying to do with them. yes, we want to be better informed about the potential impacts of laws that we adopt in this parliament on those who will be affected by them. absolutely right. but it’s not just how laws affect small and medium-sized enterprises as some campaigners seem to sometimes imply, it is about how the legislation affects other stakeholders – consumers, workers, third parties, government finances, the environment. it’s a question of getting all of these things in balance. secondly, this is not about deregulation, it’s about better regulation. when we adopt legislation it is usually for good reason and especially at european level. if we adopt legislation at european level, it is not, as some in the media sometimes portray, the european commission spewing out regulations on hapless member states who don’t even know that it’s being inflicted upon them. no, there is a high threshold to adopt legislation at european level. it needs the approval of this parliament and of the council, the council composed of national ministers, members of national governments, accountable to their national parliaments, who need the high threshold of a qualified majority representing 65% of the population to approve anything. so the idea that we inflict legislation on hapless member states is nonsense. we only legislate at european level where there is a high degree of consensus that it is advantageous to do so. that is an important political safeguard and i would remind those people, usually sat over there, but i see none of them are here tonight, those people who claim that the eu inflicts all this red tape and bureaucracy on small and medium-sized enterprises. i’d add one further thing. when we get it right, european legislation is an exercise in cutting red tape for businesses, because having one set of rules instead of 28 different, divergent set of rules in a single market, makes things simpler for businesses. they don’t have to adapt to every single segment of the market, adapting their product, changing it, changing the labelling, changing the marketing everywhere. they have life simplified when we get european legislation right. so it is not about deregulating it’s about regulating better. at the moment we see actually an example of a member state, my own country, beginning to discover the multiple problems that arise if you begin, as it intends to do, to diverge and its regulations from the rest of its main market, all the multiple extra costs that will arise, all the extra difficulties, all the economic problems that will ensue. i leave you with that final thought.
mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the co-rapporteurs for their work on this file. as the employment committee’s draftsman, i welcome the fact that several of our proposals have been taken on board, but i want to talk about the annual burden survey (abs), which i think is one of the most innovative elements of the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making (iia). in its first annual burden survey, the commission undertook a survey of businesses’ perceptions of regulation. i am sure that was worthwhile but we must be much more ambitious in implementing the annual burden survey. the point is, we may create a simple piece of legislation at eu level, easy for businesses and others to understand and comply with, but when it is transposed into international legislation it does not always stay like that: additional, or completely unrelated, elements are added to the legislation. the abs should identify these cases of gold-plating. member states must always be free to adopt higher standards where only minimum standards are defined in union law. that is not gold-plating. by using the abs to bring transparency to the legislative process, we can ensure that legislation remains simple, clear and enforceable and we can make sure that europe is not blamed for unpopular legislation that has, in fact, been created by member states.
member of the commission. – mr president, the commission is pleased to see the continuing interest in the better law-making agreement and welcomes the report prepared by mr richard corbett and mr pavel svoboda. it raises some important issues and will deepen further our interinstitutional cooperation. in its short lifetime, the agreement has delivered some real improvements in how the institutions work together, as mentioned by mr corbett, for example the joint declaration on legislative priorities and the new interinstitutional register for delegated acts. we are also still busy working together on various follow-up actions such as the criteria to distinguish delegated acts from implementing acts, as mentioned already, the traceability of the legislative procedure through joined databases and the cooperation and information sharing on international agreements, as already pointed out. i hope this will also come to fruitful completion this year. the report contains several criticisms, many of them aimed primarily at the council. but, as you know, our agreement contains a monitoring mechanism to which the three institutions are committed. these issues will be for our next three-part, detailed stocktaking meeting, the first of which took place last december in strasbourg and which already addressed some of the issues. we should also recall that the agreement was a delicate compromise between the three institutions and it is important to bear this in mind as we identify how to follow up on issues where parliament now calls for more ambition. a number of issues have indeed already been addressed. to improve transparency and predictability since 2017 the commission work programme provides further information as far as available on the initiatives in its work programme. this information includes indications on the type of act, planned adoption, legal basis and whether an impact assessment will be carried out. as a general rule, the commission is committed to present an impact assessment in support of its legislative proposals and i can assure you that when an impact assessment is necessary, we do it. there were, of course, a limited number of cases where, typically for reasons of political urgency, we have not been able to. when this is the case, we explain the reasons why. your resolution states that the commission should complement its original impact assessment when deemed necessary. i want to underline that it is not an obligation, but a possibility. the commission will launch a stocktaking of its better regulation tools in the course of this year, and this will include the regulatory scrutiny board. this will be accompanied by various consultation activities and we will, of course, be in touch with parliament to hear your views. we intend to publish a report with findings in the first half of 2019. also, as stipulated by the interinstitutional agreement, i encourage parliament to pursue the endeavours in their own impact assessment work related to the substantial amendments. the first best is that parliament and the council, in line with the commitments, assess their own amendments. the commission may do this for them if it considers this appropriate. we assess in the impact assessment what kind of policy instruments we need for a specific initiative. we have to look at all the possible options and we have specific guidance for that in our better regulation toolbox. sometimes soft law is just better to achieve the desired policy objective because it is more proportionate and better respects the principles of subsidiarity. let me use this opportunity to clarify that all responses to parliament’s resolution are endorsed by the college and hence are political in nature. they constitute a particular form of communication to parliament. own-initiative legislative resolutions receive a specific attention. as foreseen in the treaty, if the commission does not submit a proposal, it always informs parliament of the reasons for such a choice. i would like to thank the rapporteurs again for their comprehensive work and to state that the commission is ready to engage collectively with parliament and the council to give even greater effect to the agreement in our regular meetings.
rapporteur. – mr president, i must begin my remarks by thanking my colleagues for their engagement and for the way they entered thoroughly into the spirit of compromise that has enabled us to have such a positive and wide-ranging report to vote on tomorrow. as a former professor of green economics, i am delighted to see that this agenda now has almost universal support, not only in parliament, but also from the commission, who have made this a priority agenda, as well as from world leaders, especially president macron of france. this indicates that the sustainable finance agenda has moved beyond the realm of partisan discussion. it is not the property of any political faction. it also shows that protecting the health and vitality of the planet we depend on is a cause that transcends normal political differences. while we may continue to debate about how banks should be regulated and what is the appropriate level of profits for enterprises, there is no longer any argument about the fact that we need to embark urgently on a transition to a sustainable economy and that finance offers a powerful tool to accelerate that transition. the urgent need to respond to the threat from climate change has led to innovation in the field of sustainable finance in different eu member states: the french law of disclosure, german leadership in the field of public investment in the energy transition, the bank of england’s timely action in encompassing the threat of financial stability from stranded assets, the swedish fsa’s ambitious agenda to integrate sustainability into its daily work, and the consideration of the threat to pensions and insurance from the tragedy of horizons by the netherlands. the aim of the european parliament should be to encourage a race to the top on sustainable development, to take the best from this innovation across our union and to combine it into minimum standards for all, guiding investment to ensure a just and rapid transition towards a sustainable economy and society. the sustainability transition is, as its name suggests, a dynamic environment. this is true of the hugely exciting technological innovation as engineers and designers respond to the sustainability imperative, and so it needs to be in terms of how we define and measure sustainability. this is why our report takes a different stance from the somewhat static taxonomy proposed by the commission. our proposal would be for something that time limits the value of different assets, based on their sustainability potential measured by already existing indicators. this would allow investors to shift their asset holdings gradually through time and would enable an orderly transition away from unsustainable investments. the systemic risk posed by stranded carbon assets could thus be avoided, an important first step towards sustainable finance, but we also need to eliminate other stranded assets from investment portfolios. my report recommends extending the stranded assets concept to include fundamental ecological systems and services, so if an investment in intensive agriculture causes soil loss or the death of pollinators, it too should be considered a stranded asset. when it comes to sustainable finance, my report makes clear that we look to our own institutions, particularly the ecb and the european investment bank, to set an example and to rise to the challenge of the paris agreement. this must mean an end to any investment that locks us into fossil fuel infrastructure and the inclusion of esg (environmental, social and governance) goals in the ecb’s investment policy. we welcome the excellent work of the commission’s expert group on sustainable finance and applaud its level of ambition. our report lends political support to their recommendations and we seek to convey to the commission and council our firm belief that the citizens of the eu look to them to show global leadership on this agenda. finally, but crucially, we need to hold the line as politicians as those who will lose value as we move towards sustainability seek to undermine our resolve. oil will always be able to move vehicles and coal will always be able to drive turbines. for this reason we, the politicians, are deciding that these fossil fuels will lose their value – because the survival of our planet depends upon it. future generations require us to stand firm and united to ensure that we use the power of finance to protect their future. (applause)
mr president, thank you to the rapporteur. we must build a financing system that works for people and planet and not just for the market players. sustainability, responsibility and ethics should be at the core of our finances, as should all eu policies and actions, in line with the sustainable development goals. i therefore welcome the focus of this report on green finances and the call to encourage the financing of projects which contribute to the fight against climate change. i also want to highlight the key role of collaborative economy actors such as cooperatives and social businesses, which are particularly important for women. these alternative economic models must be able to access finances in order to contribute fully to the economic development of our countries and our communities. we should not simply talk about entrepreneurship but always about social enterprise, if we want to build a fairer world.
mr president, rail passengers in the east midlands deserve better – better than the cancelled electrification of the midland main line from kettering to leicester, nottingham and sheffield; better than the east midlands trains st pancras ticket barrier shambles; better than fare increases for late, overcrowded trains; and better than bailouts to companies like stagecoach and virgin. when companies fail on one rail franchise, they should be banned from competing for others. passengers want fares that are fair, trains that run on time and the promised investment in the network, like full electrification of the midland main line. this is why we need stronger rail passenger rights in the european union and in the uk. instead of cancelled trains, it’s time to cancel the failed privatisation of our railways. it’s time to publish a new timetable, a new timetable for renationalising our railways – as a labour government would – to give passengers the services they deserve.
mr president, i was recently with the trade union usdaw outside a lidl distribution centre – outside, because the management won’t let uk unions in. ‘there’s an unreasonable workload to achieve productivity targets’; ‘lidl have a culture of health and safety that is only important after something goes wrong’. these are direct quotes from worried workers. this isn’t new and there is a similar story to tell across europe. back in 2004, verdi published its ‘black book on lidl’, exposing a low—pay, high—fear culture. lidl cannot be allowed to continue to expand at the expense of its workers. they need a voice, through an independent trade union. so my message to lidl is: end your opposition to unions and meet with usdaw. talk about recognising it as the trade union for lidl staff. until you do that, we will keep campaigning outside your warehouses and stores. it is time for a ‘lidl’ more understanding.
mr president, the conflict in the north indian state of jammu and kashmir goes back 70 years. the departing british left kashmir’s destiny in the gift of a king, rather than in the hands of its people, and wars between india and pakistan followed. a settlement now in kashmir is essential to peace and to progress in a complex region. there have been times of hope, there have been signs of progress, but in recent years and months the situation has deteriorated. the infringement of human rights by the indian military has been widespread and systematic. several generations of kashmiris now have no civil experience other than conflict with the indian state, but the iron fist has failed, and it has cost india dear. in elections in kashmir virtually no one votes, so in developing relations with india, the european union cannot ignore human rights abuses, and the world cannot afford to ignore this flashpoint between nuclear-armed powers.
blue-card question. – would mr olbrycht agree with me that allowing the united kingdom to continue to participate in the galileo system after brexit not only improves the security of all 28, but will also allow the eu to make better use of its resources in the next financial framework? and seeing that mr farage is in his seat, can i ask colleagues here not to be provoked. i suspect that he has come here to annoy and provoke you and to damage the interests of the united kingdom.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, it must be very good news for the european commission that the brexit hole is nowhere near as bad as you thought it was going to be. the eur 40 billion that ms may has agreed to pay over the course of the next few years must help and, of course, as we speak she is desperately scrambling to get us back into a whole series of eu programmes in your next budgetary period and, no doubt, will pay more for that. perhaps what is even better news, commissioner, is that the prime minister now wants a two-year extension of the transition phase. i can only assume that, if that effectively means full membership for a further two years, that eur 40 billion would now become eur 60 billion. i would like your confirmation that extended transition will mean a bigger bill. but perhaps the reality is that brexit is not the biggest problem that the european union now faces. italy, of course, has been mentioned, and they are net contributors to this budget; they pay in about eur 4 billion every single year. there are signs that in italy, voters are tiring of paying that money. they question what the euro has done to their economy, they feel they are a victim of the european union’s immigration policies and, as a result of all this, they voted in a new government, only to find that bullying and hectoring from the european commission has been listened to by the italian president. in the last 48 hours their democracy has been traduced. in the past, you managed to bully the danes, you bullied the irish, you bullied the greeks into submission. i suspect with italy today you have now bitten off more than you can chew. bring on more elections and bigger eurosceptic victories. (applause from certain quarters)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – it was said a few years ago that i was the european union’s worst nightmare because i wanted britain to leave the european union. i suspect that actually two italian political parties that want to stay inside the european union but want to change immigration rules and their ability to control their own budget are actually an even bigger problem for a centralised europe, and as history goes on, once the british have left, you’ll think, ‘gosh, they were really easy compared to this italian government’.
mr president, in 1976 abba released its famous song money, money, money, with its lyrics ‘it must be funny living in a rich man's world’. well mr oettinger you and the european union must have adopted abba’s song as the new eu anthem, as the uk leaves the eu instead of cutting the budget you increase it by 192 billion to 1.135 trillion. it is this lack of economic sense that will bring down the eu and the euro. instead of dealing with 25% of eu poverty and social funds, you increase an eu army budget. instead of closing the borders in 2014, you increase now the cost of immigration and asylum to europe by 392%. the eu's problem is that you think there is a magic money tree – there isn't. if you don't spend less maybe the eu and other countries within the eu will adopt another song by abba – sos – or like the uk, hasta mañana. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – thank you mr woolfe for answering my question. would you agree with me that now the italian president is taking his orders from the european union and italy is a vassal state of the european union, would you not say it's high time the italians – and the two parties who are now hoping to take government – that it's high time they went for italian exit as we are? what do you think sir?
blue-card answer. – thank you mr coburn. the italian people spoke for themselves when they decided to vote for the five star movement and lega nord. they made a choice of a democracy to have their own government make their decisions for them. any institution outside of italy that infringes their own democratic rights are wrong, but it is up to the italian people to make the choice of what they want, and they should listen to their own government, not the president acting on others’ behalves. (applause from certain quarters)
madam president, when the commission came to parliament on 2 may, it announced with a great fanfare that funds for horizon europe would be increased by 50% and that the funds for erasmus would be doubled. these are programmes that the uk government has indicated that it may well wish to participate in in the future, and therefore i welcome those increases – if they are indeed increases. because the problem we have here is that an independent analysis of those figures by the parliament has suggested that the figures presented by the commission are not in fact the case, and i don’t think we’ve had any kind of response to that yet. now i regard this as very serious, because when you come to a parliament, you need to be confident that the figures you’re presenting are accurate, and there are only two reasons why they wouldn’t be – one is mendacity (it’s deliberate) and one is incompetence, and we need to know which is which, because we deserve better than that.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, first, i really want to thank both rapporteurs for their inclusive and constructive work on this file. i may not have agreed with them, but both the rapporteurs conducted negotiations in a spirit of really good cooperation and i want to acknowledge that here today. my group felt that we should wait until the enforcement directive was fully implemented before bringing further legislation. nevertheless, we have tried to be constructive, and our priorities have been clear: we must avoid dividing europe between east and west, we must strike a good balance between the freedom to provide services across the eu and the protection of workers, and we must avoid creating legal ambiguity and uncertainty. unfortunately, the trilogue agreement has failed in these areas. even all references to rome i, the law applicable to contractual obligations, have been removed, so we are in danger of undermining the competitive position of companies, especially smes, providing services in eu member states other than their own. some provisions in the final text exceed the scope of the directive and cause legal uncertainty, so the european conservatives and reformists (ecr) group has tabled an amendment to try and bring some clarity to businesses who are lawfully trying to provide a cross-border service. i fear that by making lawful postings very difficult, this proposal may cause the unintended consequence of increasing undeclared work and bogus self-employment and other illegal practices, so the ecr group cannot support the final agreement.
madam president, i would like to send a message this morning from this chamber to progressive politicians and progressive people in the united kingdom. it might have seemed over the last decade that the pace of progressive reform here was slow. well, the response to brexit here is that it’s speeding up and it’s deepening. this is progressive reform. this is tackling precisely the kind of undercutting of local workers by foreign workers that many people in britain would like to have seen long ago. it’s tackling the exploitation of those foreign workers too. progressive legislation, which we in the uk will not benefit from, partly because of brexit and partly because our labour market is not structured in a way that would enable us to take advantage of these reforms anyway. the answer in both cases is the same, and it’s the only answer – labour government.
madam president, the lack of fair rules and enforcement protecting workers from wage undercutting exploitation has given unscrupulous employers a dividend for too long, and it was used to great effect by the leave campaign in june 2016. today’s reform of the rules on the posting of workers is a crucial step in addressing the legitimate concerns that many have, by ensuring that equal pay for equal work in the same workplace is guaranteed in law for the first time. while the tories have tried to undermine these improved workers’ rights at every stage, labour meps have been pressing for them for a long time to ensure that the single market is fairer for workers, especially in the construction sector. and now my call is to the uk government to stop dragging its feet and to ensure that these rules are implemented as quickly as possible, to ensure that british workers and their foreign co-workers can benefit from a fairer single market as colleagues and not as competitors.
mr president, the world abounds with examples of countries that have managed to treat their fish stocks as renewable resources: norway, iceland, new zealand or the falkland islands. all of them manage to combine sensible bilateral arrangements and licensing out to overseas vessels with a preservation of stocks based on a quota system that incentivises ownership. the outlier among developed countries is the european union because of the tragedy of the commons: because of a fisheries policy that defines fish stocks as a common resource to which all members have equal access. after brexit, the united kingdom will resume control of its great renewable resource. and i hope we will have sensible bilateral arrangements with friendly countries, but on the basis of ownership, so that we can allow the recovery of what used to be a great natural resource.
mr president, if we truly wanted to help young farmers, we would amend the subsidy system that disincentivises land sales and raises barriers to entry – a subsidy system which, in any case, has been overtaken by events. when the cap was launched in 1960, hunger was a recent memory and people believed that it was necessary to artificially have self-sufficiency of food in europe. but we have moved from a world where hunger was common to a world where malnutrition has become rare, exceptional and now almost always caused by human action, precisely because countries have stopped trying to be self-sufficient and have realised that the route to actual food security is having a diversity of different points of supply: whenever there is a localised shortage somewhere, there will be abundance somewhere else. the best thing we could do is to remove the protectionist common agricultural policy and integrate with the rest of the world economy.
mr president, i voted for these measures. when i came to this parliament, i said that protecting the rights of workers would be one of my top priorities. i also said i would be honest and pragmatic in talking about some of the challenges the european union faces. these measures adopted today do both of those things. in places and at times recently, because of the undercutting of local wages and the exploitation of posted workers, it has become difficult, if not impossible, to defend freedom of movement to those who have become sceptical and opposed to it. now, these measures won’t go all the way to remedying that scepticism, but they will take us a long way to fairer labour markets, labour markets which have become too unfair in the eyes of many. the onus is now on member states to adopt these measures, and today is a test for theresa may and the tory government in westminster. brexit cannot be a race to the bottom for workers’ rights. adopting these measures will be crucial to protecting workers across the european union and in the uk. i urge the uk government to do so.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, we all lament the loss of young lives in gaza. israel, of course, has the right to defend its borders but, particularly in the face of deliberate provocation, it must show restraint. apart from the loss of life involved, the international reputation of israel has again been damaged. this, of course, was precisely the intention of those that set these tragic events in train. in 2007, two years after israel had handed control of gaza to the palestine authority, hamas seized control of gaza in a civil war between palestinians in which over a hundred people died. hamas is designated by the european union as a terrorist organisation. it ruthlessly oppresses the people of gaza. it murders its political opponents and abducts, tortures and kills those it defines as collaborators. the only media allowed is under hamas control. it seeks to blame israel for all the suffering of the people of gaza and fills the minds of its people with hatred of israel and the jews. it does not believe in the right of israel to exist, but in gaza there is no democracy and no regard for human rights. the only demonstrations allowed are those under hamas direction. the border areas are exclusion zones controlled by hamas for their purposes, including the use as a base for rocket attacks on civilian communities in israel. there is no democracy in gaza. it was the palestine authority that imposed sanctions on hamas-ruled gaza in 2017, affecting salaries of civil servants, as well as medical and electricity supply. the palestine authority, madame president, needs to take full control of gaza and return to the negotiating table.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am a member of parliament’s delegation to palestine and have visited gaza myself, and for that reason i’ll restrict the comments i am making to gaza. i observed the living conditions of gazans and the repressive nature of the israeli blockades with their far-reaching effects on employment, infrastructure and any semblance of normal life. i met with palestinian politicians who are losing faith with the two-state solution and israel’s obvious lack of good faith in seeking that outcome. i talked to community groups and to the united nations relief and works agency for palestine refugees in the near east (unrwa), who highlight illegal land grabs, and families who talk of their husbands, sons and children held in israeli detention without charge. this – and so much more – is the reality of the repressive, disproportionate and illegal acts of the israeli state when what we need is true equality for all the people of the middle east. but when i read federica mogherini’s newsletter, i saw the same old tired repetition of our positions and preferences, which have so far singularly failed to prompt israeli government action of any sort. i would like to see our vice-president flex our economic muscles and review the eu-israel association agreement, because it is not unreasonable for us to expect the people that we trade with to act responsibly, proportionately and within the law.
madam president, the blockade of gaza continues to create an unbearable situation for the people living there, and europe’s indifference is both shameful and unacceptable. meanwhile, president trump’s disrespect for human dignity grows more and more appalling. his condoning of israel’s policies towards the palestinians is extremely worrying. i fear that the violence in gaza will continue as long as the blockade exists. palestinians will continue to protest their fundamental rights, and it is likely that the israeli army will continue to use lethal violence against them. the situation in the west bank is also worrying, and i wish particularly to mention the situation of khan al-ahmar bedouin school, which is facing imminent demolition against an international outcry. the only viable scenario for peace is for the eu to step in and take a strong leadership role in the middle east. the high representative and the member states should condemn, in the strongest terms, israel’s hostile policy towards the palestinians alongside the condemnation of hamas.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the momentum behind the political unrest that has been on-going in nicaragua for over a month now seems to be slowing, but nevertheless, what started out as a low-key protest about social welfare cuts has escalated into a vicious cycle of government brutal crack-downs, heightening anti-government feelings. i too welcome the decision of the government to invite the inter-american commission on human rights to observe the situation regarding human rights, as well as the setting up of a specific commission to look into the deaths of protesters. freedom of expression and of assembly is an essential element of a democratic society. however, protests need to be conducted peacefully, and of course it is unacceptable to incite further violence. but the authoritarian government of nicaragua should also act with maximum restraint. tragically, this does not seem to be the case recently, and i too would like to send my sincere condolences to all those mourning their loved ones who have been lost during this troubled month in nicaragua’s rather painful history.
mr president, as a human rights campaigner, i would like to express my solidarity with the protesters against daniel ortega’s oppressive regime. the nicaraguan people’s struggle has been continuing for a long time, as they believed that the end of the somoza rule would mean freedom in their country. the women, in particular, have been fighting for their rights on the ground, but have never been truly heard. for instance, abortion laws are extremely restrictive as they do not allow women to terminate pregnancy under any circumstances. the european union should be playing a much more active role in finding a solution to the crisis that the country is currently facing. an inclusive and transparent dialogue bringing an end to the violence, led by a strong european union, offers a viable solution.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, three months after president trump announced that he would impose tariffs on steel and aluminium, i regret that we are still debating the issue and the eu hasn’t got a permanent exclusion from these tariffs. i consider this to be a misguided action that will mostly affect strategic trading partners such as the uk and the eu, both long-standing and key security allies of the us and who are also affected by the same unfair practices. i have stressed before that the uk and the eu’s exports are not the cause of difficulties facing steel and aluminium producers in the us. the main pressures arise from overcapacity that is rooted in market distortive practices. therefore it is not fair that our industries pay the price for something that they have not created, and it is important that the us recognises this and grants the eu a permanent exception. i reiterate that it is important to avoid a trade conflict, and the eu is prepared to exercise its rights within the framework of the wto. we must use the multilateral trading system and dispute settlement as a vehicle to ensure third-country compliance with international commitments. we have heard about negotiations on trade concessions in order to secure a permanent exemption from these tariffs. as a free trade advocate, i would welcome any effort to liberalise trade, but it is important that it is done in a proportionate and transparent fashion. in case of an agreement, it is fundamental to clarify whether these concessions will be permanent or just temporary relief.
mr president, the objective of trump’s tariffs on steel is not primarily to support the us steel industry, but to launch a trade war and smash the multilateral system of trade negotiation. it would be a very serious mistake for the eu to respond by appeasing this global bully. trump’s reaction is ignorant and indiscriminate, but it offers us an opportunity to rethink our trade policy in a situation where the eu imports around 24% of its steel. if we import steel from countries that flout human rights and climate commitments, then we are destroying jobs at home while colluding in a race to the bottom. the greens fought hard for the inclusion of social and environmental standards in the modernisation of the anti-dumping instruments, and we urge the commission to make use of these instruments. to respond to trump’s decision to pull the us out of the paris agreement, we need to make progress on the idea of an import tariff on climate-busting steel. this can ensure that taking action on the climate does not damage energy-intensive industries here, but it must be balanced by a meaningful and rising carbon price floor across the eu. such a border adjustment mechanism would be acceptable to the wto, since domestic and imported products would be treated alike. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – thank you for taking the question. you speak about imposing tariffs on imports from around the world, and particularly those you consider to be nations that manufacture in a way that damages the climate. have you considered in this thought the fact – and i know this from having worked in steel stockholding myself for many years – that by doing this, you will drive up the prices all across the eu and the end-user price will go through the roof as well and effectively, there is a huge risk to employment and jobs across the eu by taking these measures rather than allowing people to buy competitively?
blue-card answer. – in my view, if we want to maintain high standards in europe, then we have to require other countries to keep those standards as well. if we don’t do that, we’re simply involved in a race to the bottom. so the ideal is that we set high standards here in europe, we protect them when it is possible to do that by a tariff at our border, and therefore we enable the rest of the world to rise to our higher standards. for me, that’s what a constructive trade policy would look like in the case of steel, but for other products as well. if we’re going to have high standards in europe, then we must require the rest of the world to rise to those standards.
mr president, the most curious aspect of the eu’s trade dispute with the trump administration is its enthusiasm for claiming the moral high ground, because the european union is itself built on the ideology of barriers to trade. you are a customs union, so it is hardly logical to berate the united states of europe for being one too. indeed, it was recently admitted by the german think-tank, the ifo centre for international economics, that the eu has a significantly worse record on tariff barriers than does the us. the eu unweighted customs duty is on average 5.2%, while in the us it is just 3.5%. president trump sees that america is running a usd 90 billion trade deficit with the eu and thinks he can force a better deal, so he is exerting leverage in the area of steel and aluminium, protecting his own producers. it will be interesting to see whether ultimately the eu takes a kinder stance towards him than it has so far taken towards theresa may, who presides over a much larger uk trade deficit with the eu but who has bent over backwards to be accommodating in brexit negotiations, not only begging for a frictionless trade deal in such circumstances, but she is also paying up 40 billion of uk taxpayers’ money to further sweeten things. she not only says she won’t have a hard border in ireland, but she seems to be saying she must avoid doing anything that leads you to think you must impose a hard border in ireland either, yet still you kick sand in her face. in such circumstances, can anyone blame mr trump for believing that the way to get a better deal for his country with the eu is to put the thumbscrews on you? i am sad to say i believe his tactics ultimately will bear a lot more fruit than mrs may’s desperation to please has done thus far. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for that question. as far as i am aware, the united states of america is not yet a member of the european union and nor are more than 100 other countries around the world, and they have to trade with the european union on the basis of external tariff barriers. the point i am making is that it ill behoves the eu and everyone in this assembly to get on the moral high horse and berate other countries for imposing tariffs when the whole ideology that brought the forerunner of the eu into being was one of external tariff barriers.
mr president, i come at this debate from a somewhat different view to many colleagues here. it is one of the few debates since i’ve been here that i can speak from the perspective of pure personal experience. i was in the steel industry, stainless steel and aluminium, for twenty years. i worked in the service and stock-holding sector during that time. i started off with british steel stainless and then moved on to a variety of companies across europe, avesta and thyssenkrupp being most notable amongst them. what i noticed during that time was the importance of the variety of areas you can import from to be able to service your customers correctly. tariffs and a trade war with the united states would be absolutely devastating to this market sector. what we have to think about is that it would not just make it difficult to import – sometimes – qualities of steel that you can’t always get domestically or from within the eu, but also the situation is that domestic mills will grow in power and grow in size. now you might think that that’s a good thing, but when competition is beaten away by a huge giant then you lose price competition, you lose quality competition, you lose many of the aspects that made steel stock-holding and service centres such an integral part of the manufacturing economy in the uk and across europe. when you look at the tariff and counter-tariff argument, all the end result will be is an endless spiral of unemployment and of industry crashing down. i understand what president trump is doing. there are cases of dumping on the market, most notably from china, which is tantamount to trade war. it’s an effort to destroy domestic production: wipe them out so that they can then control the market. it’s obvious. there must be measures against dumping, i think many of us would agree. but to take it on to a tariff war would be a catastrophic error. this is not just me speaking. this is coming from voices within the steel industry. we are concerned – many people – about the devastating and paralysing impact of these tariffs because all it would seem you’re hearing is the lobby voice of the big manufacturer, the big mill. think about the service sector, the stock-holder, the medium-sized business who actually look after the end users, who are the people who have to provide the skill and the technological information that goes into it. we must be fighting hard for tariff-free trade across the world, and certainly with the usa. i hope an independent uk will be able to do a tariff-free trade deal with the united states of america. but also, for the sake of the world economy, i hope the eu can do the same because i don’t want to see people losing their jobs and their livelihoods anywhere. let’s forget the political differences and focus on the reality of jobs and employment in our economies. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i believe that one of the main roles of politicians – the commission for the eu, the politicians for the uk, wherever you talk about – is to facilitate free trade so that we can all get wealthier. we want all to get wealthier. i understand what you are saying and understand that mr trump’s actions have sparked much of this. i don’t agree with tariffs; i want a world free of tariffs so that we can all trade freely and compete. in the short term, what we must do is speak to each other and stop this devastating trade war. it benefits nobody, and we must work together to stop this by organising free trade and having discussions.
mr president, the only thing i agree on with the people on the right is that no sensible person wants a trade war, but the best way to avoid such a trade war is by strong action and strong words against the illegal measures that president trump is proposing. our response, as laid out by the commissioner, is wto compatible, it is lawful and it is the right course of action. if we can stick to this, if we can stay strong as the eu, we will be demonstrating to our trading partners beyond the united states that we are ready to stand up for the global system, we are ready to stand up for free and fair trade and we’re ready to stand up for a rules-based system. only by demonstrating that we are ready to stand up for a rules-based system can we avoid a downward spiral in terms of open and free trade. if the eu stands firm, we will find allies across the globe and possibly in some strange places like china, which also depends on a globalised trading system. this is not about starting a trade war; this is defending the global free trade system.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, madam high representative, as we speak today, rival factions in libya and their supporters are meeting in paris for renewed talks at finding a road map for peace. one year on since president macron also launched similar talks, we do hope on this occasion that there will be a more positive outcome. the panzeri report underlines that jointly, the libya political agreement and the un action plan remain the only credible solution to this crisis. elections by the end of this year lie at the heart of those plans, and i welcome that this will be the key point under discussion in paris. ensuring that these elections are accepted by all in advance will be vital to preventing a repeat of the 2012 elections, which resulted bizarrely in rival competing administrations. we need now to reach a point whereby an internationally recognised government reflects the situation on the ground, and not merely western aspirations. in this regard, we must take account of voter registration, which remains sadly at around only 50%, a figure that in my mind is insufficient to deliver a true legitimacy and credibility to any elected government. providing a lateral support and assistance, therefore, is a practical eu measure that could be taken to ensure that the provisions are in place for any political solution that is eventually reached. secondly, i also note that saif al-islam gaddafi has made a stated intention now to run in any elections. given the icc’s renewed calls this month for his arrest, such a presidential bid could pose genuine problems for ending impunity for war crimes committed by his family.
madam president, i would like to thank ms mogherini for her comments on the visits of myself, ms ayala sender and mr castaldo to libya. what this visit very much underlined is the central focus of my colleague mr panzeri’s report, which was, as we saw for ourselves, that the international community and the eu in particular must step up its efforts to support stabilisation in libya. this is the central focus: it was what you said, it’s what mr panzeri is saying in his report. and this process is about peaceful elections and good governance. we heard repeatedly in our visit that people must accept the eventual outcome of those elections, and it really focuses on what everyone is saying and our colleagues from the committee on foreign affairs have been working on – this holistic approach. of course, the dominant media images and suffering that we saw in the tariq al-sika detention camps were very disturbing, but it is very, very obvious that there is a holistic approach required to solving many of these problems, and i wish everyone involved in this the very best. i want to say from my committee very quickly that the question of arbitrary detention and human rights abuses are very obvious and detention must end. the whole question of the libyan coast guard was one that we investigated very thoroughly: the question of the ‘do not harm’ principles; the question of access to services for migrant women and children; the question of libyan authorities facilitating the regularisation of migrants living and working in libya. this dominant issue is not going away. yes, security is improving – i agree with what the high commissioner has said. but this is a long-term battle and this element must be absolutely central. i will say this finally: libyans are suffering too and are leaving too, and this was a very sobering visit. thank you all for the help, and i hope mr panzeri’s report is read most widely.
mr president, in the age of isis and mass migratory waves, the schengen area is pie—in—the—sky utopian student politics. it is a concept that is out of time. if an external border is porous – as it has been with the eu for many years – then the absence of internal borders becomes still more critical. when ms merkel invited everyone in who claimed to be displaced by wars in the middle east, she invited them in not just on behalf of germany, but on behalf of 25 other schengen members and, to a large extent, on behalf of the eu’s six non—schengen members too. so no wonder internal border checks are creeping back within schengen – in the case of france, for wholly understandable security reasons, and for some other countries, to cope with the sheer volume of merkel migrants. social and cultural cohesion is a precious and fragile thing. when it exists, it enhances the life of almost everyone in a community, but allow the pace of population change to run too fast or be careless as to the character of people moving from one country to another and you will ignite the indignation of indigenous populations. italians want to control their own borders; hungarians wants control their own borders; one of the big reasons for brexit was the desire of the british to control their own borders again. the european political class is insulated from the downsides of uncontrolled mass migration. instead of empathising with european populations who feel overrun, far too many european politicians show contempt for their electorates – even branding them as racist just for wanting a degree of social stability. if you were wise you would make the schengen area the second item thrown into the dustbin of history – hard on the heels of the eurozone – but we know you won’t do that, and so the confrontation between europe’s citizens and its elites is set to intensify. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think i said – or i certainly meant to say – italians and hungarians and the british. it’s the people who want to take back control of the borders. to some degree the governments of some countries do as well, but they are forbidden from doing so by the rules of the european union, as you must well know. i am simply pointing out that the european elite and its rules are on a collision course with the popular will in many countries which are members of this union.
mr president, i would like to thank our rapporteur. yet again she, as always, is a strong voice for all victims across the european union. the report makes it clear that the different definitions of a victim are a barrier to support. in northern ireland, the perverse definition of a victim of terrorism places the bomber and the gunman on a par with those whose lives they’ve claimed or changed unalterably. our work in this chamber should benefit the victim, and not the victim—maker. the border dimension is also important, and today i am calling on the irish government to properly address the case of ian sproule, a young man gunned down 26 years ago, where there is suspicion that rogue garda officers leaked information on him to ira members. we hear much in this chamber about the irish border, yet nothing about the victims of terrorism in border communities in northern ireland. every democrat in this chamber should be outraged.
mr president, this report highlights progress made by member states in the field of victims’ rights. the victims’ rights directive is an important tool in order to provide for better assistance for victims, and particularly for women’s access to justice. many women’s groups in my country, such as women for europe, are currently campaigning to keep britain in the eu. they know that women’s rights are threatened by brexit, and i stand in solidarity with them. i am happy to see that the report also recommends the reinforcement of the rights of victims of hate crimes, including racist crimes and crimes against lgbtiq+ people. this is crucial, especially since the uk’s eu referendum, which triggered a huge rise in hate crimes. the victims’ rights directive is a crucial piece of eu law which establishes minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime and ensures that people who have fallen victim to crime are recognised and treated with respect. we need this kind of safeguard after brexit.
member of the commission. – mr president, i wish to thank mr fjellner very much for his kind advice. thank you also, mr fjellner, for the work that you have done together with the shadow rapporteurs on this very important piece of legislation. as you alluded to, there have been long and numerous negotiations. the co—legislators have now finally found a way to deal on the modernisation of trade defence instruments that far exceeds expectations. i think it is a good outcome. there have been many contributions, and these will now be part of our new legislation. the council has also, together with the european parliament, played an important part. you thanked the estonian presidency and the maltese presidency. i would like to add the slovak presidency, which actually did some work there as well, to bring us all together. this modernisation is a success. we have managed to find concrete improvements for all stakeholders – producing industry, importers and downstream users of imported merchandise alike. also, thanks to the european parliament, workers can now be represented by their trade unions in investigations and the position of smes has been strengthened. i see three key messages in this modernisation. first, it will be more economically effective. the primary purpose of tdi measures is to remove the injury that the eu industry encounters due to unfair trade. the new rules enable us to do that better because we can factor in elements such as necessary investment, research and development. moreover, there will be a minimum target profit of 6% and this ensures that the calculations reflect economic reality. the eu will take a more assertive stance against trade distortive measures by our trading partners. if they maintain raw material distortions or provide subsidies that go against the wto, we can respond with higher duties – and i fully agree that the european union has a specific responsibility always to follow wto rules, not least in times like now. the eu industry should have access to trade defence instruments without fear of retaliation in other markets. in such special circumstances, with a threat of retaliation, the commission can start an investigation on its own initiative. however, according to the new rules, the industry is then requested to cooperate with the proceeding. secondly, this is good for eu business. the modernisation has significantly increased transparency and predictability. from now on, the commission will announce duties three weeks before they enter into force. this gives the markets time to adapt to the new situation, and at the same time the law ensures that this possibility to adapt cannot be abused for stockpiling. the new anti—dumping investigations will indeed, as the rapporteur said, be faster. provisional measures will normally apply seven months after initiation, and that is two months earlier than today. we will facilitate the access of smes in the form of a tdi helpdesk that provides information but also addresses language barriers and we will reimburse importers where they have paid duties during an expiry review that results in terminating the measures. third, thanks to the modernisation, we have strengthened our eu values in our trade defence. we are committed, as you know, to an open rule—based trading system. trade has to be fair; the role of tdi is to ensure this. trade defence measures are not a punishment, but they should re—establish fair competition. at the same time, such measures should be balanced and proportionate. i think this has all been strengthened in our proposal. we have in the european union high environmental and social standards and we are committed to further improvement. the tdi modernisation ensures that the potential higher costs which eu business incurs by applying these high standards are fully taken into account, and this includes future costs that will occur during the lifetime of measures such as the one resulting from our strengthened emission trading system. the commission will consider third countries’ action on multilateral environmental agreements and core ilo conventions before accepting undertakings by exporting producers. unfair trade is threatening jobs in the european union. trade unions representing these workers now have full access to the investigation as interested parties and can prepare complaints jointly with our industry. all these elements are concrete improvements of our current tdi system. together with the new calculation methodology, we have done our homework. we stand united to defend our common interests at all levels in the light of external challenges, and we can do so thanks very much to the work that you have done.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, even a few years ago, it seemed impossible that the eu would use trading measures to penalise those who are damaging the environment and exploiting workers. today, we are delighted to say that the eu will include social and environmental standards within its anti-dumping measures. this is a huge win for the greens and our supporters after years of campaigning and a historic step by the eu as the first member of the wto to do this. this will now mean that goods produced with low labour standards or those that are harmful to the environment, such as the mining industry, will face investigation of their environmental impacts. if they have cut standards to cut costs, this will affect their ability to export. the next step is for the commission to adopt a clear and transparent method for measuring these impacts so that the anti-dumping policy can come into effect. while the eu is making progress on trade policy, brexit britain looks weaker and more isolated than ever. as we saw with the trump steel tariffs fiasco, two visits by trade minister fox to the us left him empty handed. the us and other trading giants would laugh in the face of a lone united kingdom that tries to protect its industry from tariffs or dumping. we need to stay part of a strong and democratic trading bloc if we are to have any hope of using trade as a tool to protect our workers and the natural world around us.
mr president, this is a bittersweet moment for me. finally, tomorrow we will vote on this all-important reform of eu trade defence instruments that will help protect thousands of jobs all across europe. bittersweet, because we had to wait five years to get here, because my home member state did everything that it could to block the reform. bittersweet, because tory ministers stood on the beach in redcar wringing their hands and claiming that they were blocked by eu rules from protecting our steelworkers from dumped under-priced steal, while they blocked this legislation which could have helped. bittersweet, because the eu was blamed in the referendum, leading to high leave votes from all our steel communities. bittersweet, because now we have a job to get anything near as good in our uk trade remedies legislation post-brexit. this is a bittersweet moment for labour meps in the european parliament.
mr president, i just wanted to say that this is a very timely report, given the global debate and tensions we have on trade issues. having effective trade defence instruments (tdis) is imperative because not only do we have an aggressive approach from china, which appears to be playing a global monopoly game in acquiring infrastructure and energy plants at strategic locations, but we also have an unpredictable president in the white house who changes global trade rules on a whim. for me, the tdis should have been more ambitious, but i recognise that they are a first step that factors in social and environmental standards when determining trade dumping. this is exactly what industry in my region, the west midlands, wants. the second want is that the eu duties should be higher because, at the moment, they have said that they’re not high enough to be a deterrent when it comes to dumping steel or ceramics. therefore, it’s regrettable that the uk government voted against this deal in the council and the vote goes against what uk industry has been lobbying for.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i’d like to thank ms saïfi, the rapporteur, and the other shadows on the good work that we did on this report. in recent years eu trade policy has been challenged like never before, and i think that we are united in this house in the objective to rebuild public trust. this means that we need to be honest about what’s working and what isn’t, and i welcome, in this spirit, the publication of the commission’s first implementation report on the eu’s common commercial policy. now it’s our turn as parliament to do our job and hold the commission to account. there are many things missing from the commission’s report, but most importantly, an honest analysis of what our trade policy does for our people and planet. i suspect the answer is actually not very much so far. although now the tone is changing around eu trade policy, with recognition of the negative consequences of globalisation and the need for a values-based trade policy, there’s still little interest in concrete measures to address the shortcomings. the toolbox to address these consequences is inadequate, and the commission’s implementation report offered little analysis of how those limited tools have been used in practice. the commission simply can’t go on without giving us a detailed assessment of the impact of labour and environmental provisions in eu trade deals in particular. i’d like to emphasise the importance of enforcement in terms of labour and environmental protections. rightly, we’re critical of the unilateral closure of the commission’s consultation on the use of sanctions to enforce these provisions. in other parliament reports, notably on the eu-korea agreement, parliament’s shown in detail why the current approach is inadequate. the commission has closed down debate far too early, and it reminds me of the debate about investment protection just a few years ago, in which the commission resisted change until the public opposition to the eu’s approach threatened whole free trade agreements (ftas). i would encourage the commission to heed this criticism in this report and engage on enforcement of trade and sustainable development chapters in a more constructive manner. we also need to take an honest look at what our free trade deals deliver concretely on the ground. the commission report is full of success stories, but what about the losers – the regions and the sectors? one thing is clear from the report: our companies, unlike our partners, do not take the most advantage of eu trade deals, and we need to know why this is. i suspect that one of the reasons may be austerity policies and cuts in national trade promotion budgets, which have played a big part in that. that’s why i think that a values-based trade policy cannot only be about talk. we also need to walk the walk. and that means we need to do much more on implementation.
mr president, it is excellent that this parliament is discussing the future of europe. whether we like it or not, our countries are interdependent. we have to find common solutions to common problems. but there is one government that is conspicuously absent from this debate – that from my own country. there is not even a single conservative mep in this debate today, and that is a shame. it is also striking that in the brexit negotiations, two years after the referendum, the british government still has no opening position on what it wants to secure in terms of customs relationships. we have a white paper that is promised for next month – two years after the referendum. frankly, what is happening is that the government is discovering that you cannot distance yourself from your neighbours and your main economic partners without paying a terrible economic price. but if you remain close, then of course, you have to play by the same rules as everybody else – without, if you are no longer a member, having a say on those rules. this government, with its deep ideological divisions, is incapable of finding a solution to this dilemma. it is time it made way for a government that will be constructive and find a solution.
mr president, there are many good things to support in this resolution, which largely reiterates the position of parliament some months ago, particularly the support for those areas that increase scientific research programmes, and so on, are there to be welcomed, and we are happy as labour meps to support those aspects of the resolution. however, only aspects relating to own resources. first of all, the united kingdom has a derogation from changes to these systems between now and the end of the mff and, of course, the uk intends to leave before this new mff, so it would be inappropriate to express a view on those points. finally, on the question of the rebates, many of which flow from by far the largest rebate – the uk’s, it seems to us that it is important for uk citizens to understand that that will continue to the end of this mff and the end of the uk’s membership, and the time to discuss those rebates is perhaps once the uk has left, rather than before.
mr president, i did not support the adoption of this report. it is the duty of every sovereign nation to keep its borders safe and intact and to ensure the safety of its people. the schengen agreement has undermined this principle fundamentally, and if i could change a key sentence in the report, it would actually say that the schengen agreement has been one of the greatest failures of the european union, not an achievement. the enormous number of migrants who have been able to vanish within the schengen area has actually led to one of the most significant threats to the european continent, and by reintroducing border controls, certain member states have been able to fulfil their primary duty to help keep their people safe. the united kingdom never signed up to schengen, and with very good reason, and we will continue to support those countries who assert their right to say who can, and who cannot, cross their borders.
mr president, i abstained on this vote, for the simple and justifiable reason that this report highlights the inadequacies of european union regulation. the directive has failed in virtually every sense, so it was absolutely unsupportable. victims of crime need their rights protected, and this is best done at a member state level, whereby local considerations are not only understandable but they are also applied. the one-size-fits-all approach taken by the european union simply does not work, as has been demonstrated most admirably by this report, and there were major failings in the detail. when that happens, no mep in this chamber should have supported such directives or reports.
mr president, the golden visa programme is operated in a significant number of european member states, and quite frankly, shame on them for actually being in a position and even feeling they have got the right to offer that. a number of my colleagues have kept on about russia and china – but what about some of the countries on the european continent that are seeking membership of this european union, such as albania? we have had stories in the united kingdom of individuals there using the golden visa programme who are known criminals, already guilty of corruption and other awful crimes against humanity, and yet they are making use of this particular system. we have also heard this afternoon – but i am going to reiterate – the dangers that the schengen system actually presents. it allows these individuals, once they are inside the european union with their golden visa, to go where the hell they want and export their criminality and other actions of ill repute everywhere and anywhere. this whole process needs fundamental reform, and this report does not include any seemingly reasonable or justifiable ideas or concepts as to how to address the problems.
mr president, do you need to move swiftly to acquire a different citizenship for business purposes? are you suspected of money-laundering and facing a little local difficulty? no problem. for a few hundred thousand euros, you can become a citizen of an eu member state. new zealand-born billionaire christopher chandler bought eu citizenship from malta, while british citizens are losing theirs thanks to the brexit campaign backed by his legatum institute. when putin’s mate oleg deripaska found eu sanctions too hot to handle, he found an easy way out. he paid to become a cypriot and was free to do business as a european citizen. the global kleptocrats disdain national governments. when those governments sell them the precious rights of citizenship, they are undermining the rule of law. both malta and britain have come to regret inviting such people into their countries. selling freedom of movement to the wealthy may seem attractive, but in terms of social cohesion and public safety, the price may be higher than you thought.
mr president, the absolute zero point on this issue is under what circumstances a sovereign nation allows residence of foreign nationals. at bottom, it’s a question of sovereignty. presently in the uk, our government gives a so-called golden visa if the applicant makes an investment of at least gbp 2 million in government bonds, share capital or loan capital. this gives an open goal towards securing a british passport. in 2017, the uk granted 355 of these visas. the majority of them were chinese or russian nationals. given the present geo-political situation, we have to look at whether this selling england by the pound is really in the national interest or fairness to other applicants. the absolute minimum any responsible government selling – a phrase, by the way, which just sounds wrong – visas is to fully investigate where this money came from. surely it’s incumbent upon any nation state to ensure that applicants are people of high moral character? otherwise we are opening ourselves up to the charge of being accomplices to money laundering, slave labour; of being accessories to the possible undermining of our own national sovereignty. our governments should treat all applicants equally and fairly. the ability to loan a government gbp 2 million pound, or however much it may be, should never, ever be part of that equation.
mr president, from time to time there are problems which need cross—border solutions and the issue of odometer tampering is one of those times. if 30% of cars sold across borders in the european market are having their odometers tampered with, then we are dealing with a massive problem costing innocent citizens billions of euros. clearly this cannot continue and people must be protected from the criminal activities of a few unscrupulous crooks. a database containing the mileage details of every vehicle would be helpful, but how would this be maintained and checked for accuracy? where would the mileage details come from, and who would be inputting that data? it is all very well having more and more data kept on our citizens, but criminals don’t care. our citizens do need strong and effective enforcement of existing laws designed to tackle this issue. make this a priority and make the penalties far more severe. anyone found deliberately tampering with vehicle odometers for financial gain should face lengthy prison sentences and hefty fines. (the speaker refused to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, turkey’s prospects of joining the eu anytime soon now seem all but impossible. erdogan’s continued drift towards authoritarianism has seen the rule of law, a free media environment and turkey’s role as a reliable nato ally undermined. nevertheless, turkey remains an important partner, and despite some calls in certain quarters to do away with ipa funding altogether, i believe that this would be a step too far for now. but it must be kept under review, as also is the case with suspending accession negotiations for eu accession – that also must be kept under review, particularly in the way turkey chooses to treat cyprus. ipa ii allocated about 40% of its budget to turkey. i hope that ipa iii will see a greater share given to the western balkans,(the president interrupted the speaker)which are in greater need and are much closer to eu accession. as was highlighted in the recent audit report of ipa funding to turkey, there are mechanisms, such as the recourse to greater oversight of the distribution of funds, that are currently under-used. so i sincerely hope that such mechanisms will be used in future to avoid any potential alleged misuse of ipa monies by turkey, because that is a very serious allegation indeed.
madam president, regarding turkey’s journey on the european path, it’s important to talk about ongoing turkish attacks on the kurds, including recent attacks on the peaceful citizens of afrin, which have resulted in mass displacement and many deaths. one body that still lies under the rubble is that of anna campbell, a young fair—minded british woman who was moved to join the kurdish women’s protection unit last year. anna was killed 11 weeks ago whilst helping to evacuate civilians. her bereaved family are suffering immensely. meanwhile, the turkish authorities refuse to give access to anna’s body, and theresa may shakes hands with president erdogan. i visited kurdistan many times, recently with the women’s delegation for peace in northern syria. i have met with bereaved kurdish families, and i know that turkey frequently refuses to allow them to give the victims a proper burial. i therefore urge the high representative to take diplomatic action to help anna’s family and demand an end to the vicious turkish attacks on peaceful kurds.
rapporteur. – madam president, the report that we are debating tonight is an implementation report on the eu’s gender action plan for external relations 2016-2020 – the so-called gap ii report. what we are looking at is whether or not we are delivering on the pledges we signed up to. what we are not debating tonight is whether or not we need gender action in our external relations. we had that debate two years ago and we agreed we needed a much stronger focus in this new programme, not just in development policy like the last gender action plan, but right across our external relations: in trade, in our neighbourhood policy and in our global strategy. that is why i am pleased, commissioner hahn, that you are here tonight as well, because it is not just commissioner mimica who is involved, it is all our commissioners, in external action. what did we find when we looked at how we are doing so far? it is, of course, early days. we based our work on year one of the gender action plan, but i think so far, we are seeing some very positive progress. it is never easy to engineer cultural change, and to get gender action taken more seriously, that is what we need. we need to move away from the days when the gender responsibility was given to the youngest, newest member – often female – of our delegations in our partner countries. what we are seeing now is that it is now the clear responsibility of the ambassadors in our delegation, and of senior officials in our services, who are responsible for gender action, and they have to give an annual report to make sure that they can be held to account. so far, 81% of delegations of our embassies have submitted their gender reports, as have 22 member states, because our member states have also signed up to this plan. we have seen an increase in the number of projects specifically aimed at women, and we are also seeing that all projects have to have some form of gender screening. we have seen the creation of gender focal points and gender champions in our delegations, but i would like to see further progress inside the commission’s headquarter services in brussels as well, to see them focus more actively on this. we have seen some good practice in some embassies in some of our delegations, and we need a platform, a mechanism, to make sure the good practice and the good projects are exchanged. of course, the real point of the gender action plan is not about collecting data or nominating gender focal points; it is really about making positive changes to the lives of women and girls in our partner countries, many of which are some of the poorest countries on our planet. i saw one of these projects a couple of weeks ago in uganda, where we met women and girl refugees from south sudan living in refugee settlements, and they were receiving psychological support because they have been victims of conflict and victims of appalling sexual violence. i have seen the work we are supporting in the panzi hospital in eastern congo, which is run by dr denis mukwege, our sakharov laureate. it is also about supporting women’s political voice, like in kenya, where i met a group of women – local councillors – who were receiving funding and training, funded by the eu. yes, it is about giving women control of their own fertility, about our sexual and reproductive health rights, and allowing women and girls to make their own choices about what happens to their bodies. i think that women in our partner countries deserve the same access to family planning services as we expect in our own countries, and when i meet the women who are victims of sexual violence, and the girls – often 12, 10, 11 years old – they in particular need our support in this respect. thank you, and i will come back with further comments later. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, this report discusses many aspects that i wholeheartedly support: gender equality; access to education; eradicating discrimination; and the prevention of violence against women. but more importantly, what this report touches on – which i definitely condemn – is the absolutely horrific human rights violations which take place in libyan detention centres. women at the hands of libyan coastal guards are subjected to gang rapes, men are beaten to death, there is no food, no basic amenities, and appalling unimaginable living conditions. these are the same coastal guards that the eu are training. one cannot begin to imagine the fear, terror and despair of these victims. this is despite prior warnings from human rights organisations that warned of the exacerbation of such crimes. the un human rights chief stated that the eu’s policy of assisting the libyan coast guard was inhumane and that increasing interventions by the eu have done nothing to reduce the level of abuse suffered by migrants. what checks does the eu have in place to oversee this operation? has the commission investigated this, and what are they doing about it? are they reassessing the collaboration with the libyan coast guard?
madam president, in all my parliamentary work i speak up for women’s rights and true gender equality. as a member of the delegations to bosnia and herzegovina, kosovo and acp countries, i know how important this is. women, girls and lgbtiq+ people suffer disproportionately because of inequality and if we truly want to stand shoulder to shoulder with our sisters, then we need to be bold and inclusive. as someone who was recently awarded a master’s in education and international development at newcastle university, with world-class experts teaching me, i know that including an efficient gender perspective in foreign policy is crucial if girls are to succeed. this report highlights some progress that has been achieved, but underlines many shortcomings that must be addressed. the report calls for greater consideration of the gender dimension in conflict and post-conflict situations. women, girls and trans people are likely to be the victims of sexual violence as a weapon of war and our policies must address this issue specifically.
madam president, importantly, this report recognises what the eu has already achieved to change societies by supporting and involving women. but there is so much more to be done. we are not doing enough to explicitly involve women in peace negotiations, and the gender dimension is frequently sidelined in crisis situations or difficult conflicts. the report also recommends significant actions in relation to sexual and reproductive health and rights, including in conflict situations, specific regions and combating the consequences of the deeply damaging global gag rule. commissioner, please also take note of the need to empower women in our political work in our neighbourhood countries. the eu is already delivering change through this programme. delivering the considered recommendation in the full report will deepen that change long into the future.
rapporteur. – madam president, commissioner hahn said this is the beginning of the process. indeed it is, and we suggested that this parliament comes back to this in about two years’ time and looks again. of course it’s not just the commission that should be doing things – we should do things as well. when we go on missions, for example, we should ask the commission for their gender analysis of the country, and we should be asking questions as well, and also in our work, taking this very seriously and showing our partners that we take it seriously. it’s getting late, colleagues. i just want to thank everybody, thank ms šuica in particular for her work on this. i know there are some difficult issues where we disagree. when we have disagreed we have done so in a good spirit. i know there are some areas where some colleagues disagree on bits of this report. but please don’t use that as an excuse to reject it tomorrow. it’s got some very important elements in this report, and i hope that as many colleagues as possible will support it in the vote.
madam president, this is a very timely debate ahead of this weekend’s european youth event or yo!fest, when 8 000 young people will take over parliament, filling it with their ideas, energy and hopes for the future. indeed, this report recommends concrete measures to strengthen and improve the future eu youth strategy, in particular, the inclusion in the labour market of all young people through equal opportunities and also enabling measures to grant young people the right to live in a healthy environment with access to education and culture, which should be considered fundamental rights. as a socialist member, i welcome the focus on the need to always guarantee that employment, training and learning opportunities respect good working conditions and social rights, in line with the international labour organisation (ilo) decent work agenda. colleagues, young people are not cheap labour. i also welcome the reiteration that the commission and member states must promptly adopt a child guarantee. twenty-five million children in the eu are in a situation of poverty, which is simply unacceptable. importantly, the report calls for young people and youth organisations to be involved in policy making. yo!fest offers such a model... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, one of the key themes through this report is the importance of listening to young people, and that is what i have been doing: holding a series of discussions in recent weeks with young people in my region at the outward academy in worksop, the leicester young people’s council, students at uppingham school and young people in buxton in derbyshire, and i will be publishing a report in the next few weeks on what they have to say about brexit. because there is a specific context in the uk for listening to young people, and two early conclusions from my report on what they have said to me is this: on participation and empowerment, young people want to be formally empowered, and i agree with those young people who have told me that the voting age should be 16 and not 18 in the uk. and secondly, young people want to be listened to throughout this brexit process. so the commission, the uk government and the parliament steering group should find ways to engage young people throughout the next few months.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, can i first of all thank the rapporteur and congratulate her for bringing forward this report. designing products that are more sustainable, that use less energy, is clearly common sense. therefore it is difficult to mount an argument against the concept of ecodesign, as i am sure some will try to do because if you look at some headlines on this you would think that this was all needless eu red tape, brussels bureaucrats trying to tell us what sort of vacuum cleaners we can and can’t buy. of course, it is not that. it is about helping people make better choices as consumers to buy products, whether they be televisions, whether they be coffee machines, whether they be laptops, that are more energy efficient, that are more sustainable, that been made in a more sustainable way. it is key therefore that we make sure the most sustainable products on the market are also the most affordable products on the market. this must also be an issue of social justice as well as environmental justice. key to this is the implementation, of course, and that is where i feel we need to see the balance of ambition with pragmatism. whilst not directly referenced in this report, let me take the case of lights used in music venues and theatres. if a specific exemption is removed, we will see energy usage of certain lamps. it would mean an immediate waste of existing equipment if that exemption was removed. whole lighting rigs would need to be replaced, whole lighting rigs becoming obsolete when they could be used for many years. data from uk music shows that 35% of live music venues in the uk have closed in the last 10 years. those venues face many challenges: business rates going up, rents going up, planning regulations. any further increasing costs will present a real threat to music venues in the uk and across the eu. so i appeal to the goodwill and willingness of the commission to work positively to reach a sensible compromise on this specific issue, and a way forward, so we can find a low waste, low energy and more sustainable economy and protect live music and arts venues at the same time, because that would represent good, positive, cooperative policymaking and i know that it would be music to the ears of venues across the uk and other member states.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, i and many of my constituents are extremely concerned about the content of the eu ecodesign directive and i have received many emails and letters about it. of greatest concern is the effect that the directive will have on theatres and similar venues across the united kingdom and europe. since 2009, retailers have been banned from selling tungsten lighting for domestic use, but they were still permitted to sell it for use in theatres and concert halls, which were exempted from the ban. over the years, people working in the entertainment industry have approached manufacturers who were still making this type of light bulb, requesting that they continue production. however, the supply of tungsten lamps will now cease as the ecodesign directive will end this exemption. not only that: the legislation will also affect most of the lighting used in this field. the effect of this legislation will be that, by 2020, theatres and other venues in the entertainment industry will no longer be able to purchase new tungsten lamps, while at the same time no suitable alternative will be available. this directive will have a negative impact on theatres and similar venues, especially smaller establishments that would be disproportionately affected. consequently, we in ukip believe that the creative industries should be exempted from this legislation.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, in my home region of the north east of england, unemployment reached an all-time low this year, falling below 5%, a figure that would appeal to many economy ministers across europe. but there’s a catch, because, in the north east, we are the capital for zero-hours contracts in the uk. one out of ten workers has a precarious job, most of them in the form of a zero-hours contract. not only does a zero-hours contract come with job insecurity but precariousness at work also leads to inadequate access to social protection, such as benefits and protection from unfair dismissal. it impinges on career development and training and therefore results in precariousness in life more generally. we, as the committee on petitions in this parliament, have received a large number of petitions calling for european action. in 2016, the committee on petitions received submissions from mcdonald’s workers who testified that some of their most basic rights, such as the right to maternity leave, paid holidays and redundancy rights, were being withheld because of zero-hours contracts. we have taken this up in parliament, and i’m proud to support mcdonald’s workers – including those brave people who have taken industrial action in the struggle for their rights at work – as well as all the other precarious workers across europe with the resolution that we’re putting on the table today. we now need the commission to act. commissioner, your representatives confirmed in our committee on petitions’ hearing that zero-hours contracts fall within the remit of the eu part-time workers’ directive, which guarantees the same employment protection for part-time workers as for full-time workers. what will you now do to enforce these rules and give mcdonald’s workers across europe all of the rights that they deserve at work?
mr president, there are literally millions of workers in the united kingdom on zero hours and other exploitative contracts, and the highest proportion of them is in my constituency in the west midlands, which is the capital of zero-hours contracts in the united kingdom. it will seem surprising to some here that a very large number of those people being exploited on those contracts in the united kingdom – maybe even most of them, but certainly a very large number of those millions – will have voted for brexit, and it is therefore the right answer that has been sent out from these institutions since the referendum that here, these institutions will deepen and re-double the efforts to tackle those abuses. that is the right answer to send to those people. however, in order for it to be a real answer, it has to be meaningful legislation, and this petition reflects the voice of our citizens. i did an ini report on this, which was great, but we have to say to the commission that ini reports and petitions are no longer enough; we need real legislation, we need a recognition of this in the written statement directive. the time for action has come.
author. – mr president, iran’s detention of a number of dual nationals continues to place a strain on relations between it and eu member states. today’s resolution topic is sometimes lost in the midst of broader issues such as the unrelated jcpoa on the nuclear deal. iran, sadly, continues to support terrorist groups and does indeed practice internal repression and human rights abuses at home. many of these eu dual nationals, including mrs nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe, a british citizen, have been detained on spurious charges without any recognised due process by international standards and are often denied access to consular assistance, as iran doesn’t recognise their second eu nationality. whilst detained, many are reported to face solitary confinement and cruel treatment during interrogation. so i today support the call for the release of all those detained solely for exercising their right to freedom of expression and peaceful assembly, but also for those, such as zaghari-ratcliffe, who are being detained on spurious charges invoking bogus national security concerns.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i wish to draw attention to two british citizens in particular held in iran: nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe and kamal foroughi. i will not discuss details of the cases due to the sensitivity. i would just say that iran must start behaving in a more reasonable way, with respect for other countries and their citizens, if it wishes to be taken seriously and treated with respect by the rest of the world. the release of these british citizens would be a very welcome first step in that direction towards re-engagement with the world and a more sensible, reasonable approach.
mr president, many dual nationals are currently detained in iran without due process, including two brits: abbas edalat and nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe. all these cases have their heart-breaking details. i want to specifically mention the case of nazanin, who took her toddler to iran to celebrate nowruz with family in 2016. she was convicted of plotting to overthrow the iranian government and now faces new, vague charges. nazanin is innocent, and she is missing her daughter’s childhood. she is only allowed to see her daughter for 90 minutes a week. i have been in touch with her family, and they appreciate this parliament’s decision to call for the release and fair treatment of eu-iranian dual nationals. while we debate these arrests of dual nationals, we must also highlight that these actions are part of a wider crackdown on freedom of assembly in iran. i urge the external action service to firmly and collectively engage their iranian counterparts, echoing the message of this resolution that we debate today. they must call for the release of all those arbitrarily and unfairly-detained as well as imprisoned human rights defenders. we have to do everything we can to bring nazanin and her daughter home.
mr president, the recent uprising in iran led by women gives hope to all of us who believe in the possibility of a free iran, including freedom for the anglo-iranian mother nazanin zaghari-ratcliffe, who has been imprisoned in iran for more than two years now on trumped-up charges. the complete disregard by the iranian authorities of her right to a fair trial and to consular assistance is appalling. it is equally appalling to see how in europe, governments – including the british government – have failed to address her case in a proper manner. as nazanin remains jailed and separated from her family, i urge the high representative to act on her behalf to urge the iranian authorities to immediately and unconditionally release her, as well as the four other eu-iranian dual nationals. with the iran nuclear deal now weakened by the united states, it is more important than ever to continue to fight for human rights in iran. normalised relations with iran will come through upholding our highest standards in terms of human rights, as well as by standing by the deal that the european union helped to negotiate. (applause)
author. – mr president, like many around the world, i reacted with optimism to crown prince mohammad bin salman al saud’s ‘vision 2030’ reform agenda in the kingdom of saudi arabia, and lifting the ban on women drivers is, of course, a very good start. positive steps towards the protection of individual rights are being made, and i welcome these wholeheartedly. however, if saudi arabia wishes to cement its position as an influential key actor in the middle east and north africa region, the process of judicial reform must be in line with accepted international standards. that’s why it is deeply worrying that this month has seen a wave of arrests of women’s rights activists whose names have not been publicised and whose rights to communication with their lawyers whilst in prison have not been upheld. the world will be watching whether the crown prince will hold fast to his reform agenda and prove that his desire for greater freedom for his people is a genuine one. for all saudi arabian citizens, i sincerely hope that this is the case.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, wahhabi saudi arabia is undoubtedly a repressive regime. their treatment of women and abuse of their rights is backward and uncivilised. what is worse, they seek to export their medieval values worldwide. i consider the best way to counter this is to export our values of freedom through trade. free market capitalism has always been the gateway to free peoples, as we saw with the collapse of the soviet union. any suggestion that the 6 000 uk firms exporting over gbp 7 billion worth of goods to saudi be stopped is folly. what we must do is increase our trade and expose the saudi people to the values of freedom through free markets. trade sanctions and embargoes, as with other parts of the world, is merely cutting our nose off to spite our face. freedom is an unstoppable, uncontrollable ideal. no repressive state or religious superstition can ever defeat it in the long run. its promotion is our greatest weapon against the forces of darkness and repression, many of these forces so well highlighted by the regime in saudi and the ideals that they export through their funding of mosques in other parts of the world. it is crucial that we stay strong, free and open, and that we expose people to our values, to our trade, to the free market. through that, civilisation and free peoples will undoubtedly follow.
mr president, commissioner, colleagues, if prince mohammed bin salman is true to his promise of modernising the country and advancing women’s rights, then a major first step would be releasing all women’s rights defenders and activists who have been arrested and imprisoned in the recent crackdown. following my visit to the kingdom last year, i praised the saudis on the project vision 2030 and its efforts in reforming, as well as taking positive steps with the lifting of the ban on women driving. i know the country is on a journey to modernisation, but that journey will get more difficult if it takes the regressive steps of arresting and imprisoning women while fighting discrimination. i am also aware that the male guardian system is currently being reviewed and will, hopefully, be reformed very soon, enabling women to act and participate independently in society. women in saudi arabia need their basic human rights to be acknowledged, upheld and enhanced. i believe saudi arabia as a country will be a stronger one through its inclusivity, empowerment and participation of women. the more successful nations in the world are the ones who are true pioneers of gender equality.
mr president, united nations (un) human rights officials have warned this week that allegations against six women and three men known to have been taken into custody by the saudi authorities appear to be very serious and could lead to draconian sentences. indeed, they could face the death penalty. the detainees are being held by saudi authorities at unknown locations, with one woman detained completely incommunicado. if, as it appears, their detention is related solely to their work as human rights defenders and activists on women’s issues, they should be released immediately. these women have been subjected to a smear campaign in the saudi media, being branded as traitors, which is a very worrying development for women human rights defenders and activists. these arrests also come amid a pr push by the saudi state, particularly targeting western media, that attempts to sell de facto ruler crown prince mohammed bin salman as a great reformer. in reality, the saudi authorities have increased their repression of activists at home and are continuing their british and us-backed war on yemen.
author. – mr president, noura hussein hammad was just a teenage girl when she entered into a forced marriage with a man who brutally raped her. tragically, she stabbed her husband to death in self-defence and now faces the death sentence for what the sudanese authorities claim to be a premeditated murder. in the light of these events, i join the one million people currently petitioning for justice for noura, calling for the rescinding of her death sentence and a free and fair retrial. as tragic as noura’s story is, however, it is but one in an ongoing pattern of constant human rights violations, particularly against women, that happens in sudan on a daily basis. i therefore strongly support today’s resolution urging the sudanese government to stand by their international human rights commitments, seriously address the patterns of human rights violations in that country, and outlaw the unacceptable practices of child marriage, forced marriage and violence against women, both inside and outside of marriage.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, noura hussein hammad was sentenced to death by the sudanese authorities because she killed her rapist husband. she isn’t the first woman to find herself in this situation, and i fear she won’t be the last. the fact that noura was forced to use deadly violence to defend herself demonstrates the appalling state of affairs regarding women’s rights around the world. forced marriage and conjugal rape are two ways in which patriarchy operates and gives power to men over women’s bodies and consciences. noura was married at the age of 16 against her will and subjected to sexual violence and humiliation. she deserves to have access to a fair and transparent trial that gives her the opportunity to defend herself. as part of the european union struggle for gender equality, i urge the high representative to use all the means at her disposal to prevent the sudanese authorities from executing noura, who was a victim of sexual violence. she is our sister in the global struggle to end gender-based violence.
madam president, i am moving this oral amendment so that parliament has the opportunity to express its support for the current exemption for stage lighting from the ecodesign regulations. this is vital for small theatres across europe. i propose that we add a new recital la as follows: ‘whereas the existing exemption for stage lighting from the commission regulations 244/2009 and 1194/2012 has been an appropriate and effective way to respect the special needs and circumstances for theatres and the whole entertainment industry and should be continued’.
madam president, i have spoken before in this chamber about the brave mcdonald’s workers who are standing up to their bosses with the bakers union, one of the key players behind the original petition leading to today’s resolution. once again i praise their efforts. mcstrike is a global phenomenon and what is clear from the us’s fight for 15, the anger across europe and from my own constituents, especially in cambridge and watford, is that there is now a new brand of activism. this is the fightback of the millennials. the workers in my constituency – predominantly young – are sick and tired of zero hours contracts, they want gbp 10 an hour and wages not based on ages. they are angry and they are rallying public support to their cause. so i welcome today’s resolution which sends an important message to government and to people like steve easterbrook. now we need action as we stand in solidarity with those in poorly paid, insecure and unprotected jobs.
madam president, 75 000 people in the east midlands are on zero hours contracts – that is 75 000 people who do not know from one day to the next wherever they have work or whether they will bring in a pay packet at the end of the week. so i will continue to press for zero hours contracts to be banned. we need to get back to when work was about valuing people, their rights, and when work was about dignity. so in casting my vote today, i am clear that it is time to end the low pay, zero hours, precarious, unstable, dehumanising nature of work for so many people today. it is time to sack zero hours contracts.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i suppose that it’s a positive thing in revising regulations on otc derivatives – the trend is to make reporting requirements slightly less complicated and burden slightly fewer firms with them. even these modest changes will, by the commission’s own estimates, save billions of pounds every year. but how many more billions could be saved by scrapping the attempt to micromanage the markets completely? the volume of data collected is so vast that there is no way to analyse it in a timely fashion, if at all. and what will the regulators do once the data tells them that the otc horse has bolted? close the stable door? all that will be achieved is to discover that a white elephant preceded the horse. and if proof were needed that the eu has not learnt the lesson of the euro crisis and wants to let sleeping dogs lie, look no further than the italian banks, dramatically increasing their use of securitisation – the same financial engineering as in the american sub-prime bubble. who can forget that? certainly not those who lost their homes. italian banks have been falling over themselves to bundle up packages of their non-performing loans, wrap them up as cdos, and sell them to other banks at a pace almost twice that seen last year. 25 billion – i repeat, 25 billion – has been sold like this in the first half of 2018, with some senior tranches guaranteed by – guess who? – the italian government. this is simply making the debt contagious all over again: a wolf in sheep’s clothing. all it does is create a new debt death-loop between italian banks and their government. italy’s debt still stands at 132% of gdp, and over 150% of gdp if you include target2 liabilities. unable to devalue its currency, public debt is like a snake eating its own tail. i can tell you: bolting horses, white elephants, sleeping dogs – a financial dog’s dinner, ladies and gentlemen, a financial dog’s dinner.
mr president, this report states that global warming is a real problem requiring clear and courageous decision—making, and yet there has been no discernible increase in global temperature since the late 1990s, despite an increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide. it would appear that initial climate models have been too pessimistic, with empirical data temperatures diverging from those forecast 10 years ago and climate scientists now admitting that previous forecasting models had exaggerated the amount by which temperatures would rise. what we are experiencing is a relatively inactive sun. sunspot activity has been decreasing since 1996, with the sun being completely blank for 25% of last year, and to date, 2018 appears to be no different. in fact, solar scientists are predicting another maunder minimum. in my opinion, it would be best to adopt a wait and see attitude rather than to continue with current unilateral eu energy and climate policies that are profoundly damaging to the european economy, causing industry closures and job losses.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and express our support for this report. quality education creates active and engaged citizens and increases the employability and mobility of young people, as well as contributing to building the economy as a whole. the modernisation of education systems across europe is a pressing need, and one that must address deep structural challenges. it is the responsibility of member states and devolved governments – such as we have in wales, where full powers over education are devolved – to implement reforms, but the eu can assist their efforts. this report presents excellent recommendations on how to do that. one point that i especially welcome, and one that has been mentioned by several colleagues, is the importance given to the teacher as a guarantor of quality teaching. earlier this year, i went with some others here on a study visit to finland. teachers there are highly trained and highly respected. to become a teacher, candidates must have passed at least a master’s degree, and many students try to be accepted on training courses for teachers and fail. it was clear that the status of teachers within society also changed the view of the value of education itself. so i am very glad that this report calls for measures to raise the status of the teacher. with the creation of the european education area under way, this is a crucial period where cooperation across the eu must be a priority. i hope that wales, the country that i represent, will play its full part in these developments, and i will work towards that aim.
mr president, i am pleased that this report does not overlook the importance of early childhood education. the evidence is clear that access to high—quality pre-school and early years provision has a positive impact on educational progression and life chances, and that is why it is such a scandal that in the uk the conservative government has cut the early years budget by gbp 500 million, meaning the door is closing to hundreds of sure start children’s centres. properly funded high-quality early years provision should be the bedrock of our education systems. we also need to see a continued focus on apprenticeships and vocational learning. those routes are not second-class. they are as important for our economic competitiveness in the future as degrees and phds. on friday, i was at silverstone, the iconic home of british motor sports, but also the home of the silverstone university technical college, equipping young people with the skills and ambition to graduate to high-level apprenticeships at formula 1 racing teams. finally, this report rightly acknowledges that education is also about broadening horizons and encouraging a positive sense of global citizenship. de montfort university in my constituency is a trailblazer in this, giving its students once in a lifetime opportunities to learn and engage with communities right across the world through its unique dmu global programme. let’s not ever forget in this parliament, our national parliaments, or indeed in regional local government as well, that every young person everywhere has the right, regardless of their background, to achieve their full potential and their aspirations.
mr president, a future—proofed education system should ensure the right of people of all ages and backgrounds, including refugees and migrants, to access quality education in a variety of indoor and outdoor learning environments, in informal, non—formal and lifelong learning, and including subjects such as learning for sustainability, social entrepreneurship and media literacy. in a fast-changing world we are asked to equip learners with skills which do not yet exist, and that’s why transferable and social skills are absolutely key in order to encourage and develop lifelong learning. we also need a strong commitment to training the trainers. the education agenda must not only look at training future workers, but also future active, responsible and open citizens. i believe education must be part of a broader reflection on occupational literacy in the context of growing digitisation and robotisation of european societies. we must focus not only on economic growth, but on learners’ personal development, improved health and well-being, including sex and relationship education for healthy relationships.
in writing. – this report proposes greater harmonisation in aquaculture and bemoans the un-competitiveness of eu based producers blaming a lack of financial prospects and stability for a lack of growth. i would suggest that growth needs light touch local regulation rather than this proposal which is nothing short of a soviet style five year plan. the eu is in-competent so should not try to coordinate this and the commission should not oversee member states plans. this is just duplication of bureaucracy not a blueprint for growth. the reason the sector is struggling is the existing level of eu regulation making it uncompetitive. the fact that there are two minority opinions is nothing less than a gooey mess. the larger group obviously being miffed that somebody pointed out the ecological failings contained in the original report. as it happens, i largely support the second minority report as this highlights the destructive nature of battery-farmed fish on the local environment and the impact on inshore fisheries. there is a reason farmed fish have such a bad reputation with consumers! finally, i can save the commission some time by explaining what will happen after brexit. the uk will put its house in order. maybe you can copy us later?
madam president, debate over the use of the seas and the right of the common people to fish is hardly new. in the uk alone, two million people fish the seas each year, and this report is a welcome development, not least for the context it provides recognising the economic and social contribution of recreational fishing. i want to make three very brief points. first and most importantly, i welcome that this report recognises that the management of the seas exclusively to serve the interests of commercial fishing is both economically and environmentally outdated. secondly, involving the recreational angling sector’s stakeholders can only lead to better outcomes. robust processes for dialogue with stakeholders should be developed and enhanced. and thirdly – and i say this with great regret – whatever process is developed for the collective management of the seas that include uk waters after 2020, it would be a great mistake for that process to replicate the mistakes of the past and exclude the recreational angling sector.
madam president, i wish to draw to the attention of parliament a fraud by russian groups targeting eu citizens in bulgaria and to the inaction of the bulgarian legal system. eu citizens own flats in the nestinarka holiday condominium which they use during the holiday season. last year, russian nationals exploited gaps in bulgarian law to set up a property fraud. that law allows formal meetings of owners to set community rules. some russian owners convened a non-quorate meeting out of season when most owners were absent. they elected themselves as the new condominium management and imposed a new regime of rules on all owners that enable flats to be seized. after 11 months’ litigation, the bulgarian courts continue to empower the russians, even after determining that the claimed meeting was invalid. it is the commissioners’ responsibility to ensure that justice systems are fit for purpose before and after eu accession. bulgaria, which holds the presidency, is failing to meet its treaty obligations. instead of censure, it will be rewarded with eur 1.9 billion from the eu budget.
madam president, 30 june will be armed forces day in the uk. the men and women who serve in our armed forces across the eu are a crucial part of the union’s defence and security, as well as playing a vital role in peacekeeping around the world. many british military personnel have been stationed in eu member states, becoming part of the local community. some fell in love and married their new-found neighbours. they’ve got children and grandchildren and some have moved back to the uk, taking advantage of european citizenship for their spouses and dependents. but now their right to family life is threatened by brexit. the uk government’s careless approach to negotiations has failed to give our service personnel the respect they deserve. people are not bargaining chips. veterans have served to protect the fundamental values that underpin the european union. the eu and the uk must now repay that debt and work together to guarantee citizens’ rights to a family life, regardless of the outcome of negotiations.
madam president, a group of people are being unjustly persecuted in the uk. these are british ex-servicemen who served in northern ireland. men in their 60s and 70s are now in danger of being charged with serious criminal offences because of allegations made against them concerning their service decades ago. these men defended us against the cowardly terrorists and murderers of the ira and sometimes they had to make split-second life and death decisions. the ira terrorists received an amnesty under the good friday agreement and were able to walk away from their crimes. one now sits in this house. i want to join those calling for an act of parliament for an amnesty for these ex-servicemen for their alleged historical offences. i also call on anyone who can, to show their support for these men by attending a protest rally at parliament square at 11a.m. this friday, 15 june.
madam president, in a few weeks’ time the uk’s national health service will celebrate its 70th anniversary, and i take this opportunity here in the european parliament to say thank you. thank you to the 62 000 nhs staff from other european nations, and indeed all those from across the world. doctors, nurses, support staff all help make the nhs what it is through their professionalism and skill and their care and compassion every single day, and with brexit now causing so much uncertainty, it’s now vital that the rights of those eu nationals working in the nhs are protected for the future. so in the 70th year of the nhs, thank you. thank you to the brilliant nhs staff from the uk, from across europe, and from right across the world.
madam president, the notice issued by the commission on 27 february this year sets out measures that must be met to ensure continued interoperability of passenger and freight services through the channel tunnel after 29 march 2019. the document recently issued by the uk government, in the course of the brexit negotiations, gives us some hope that a sensible conclusion might be reached. however, it would be hard to blame people in the uk for having no confidence in the current uk government to get anything right on the railways. my constituents who use thames link and those who use northern rail services in other parts of the country, have seen, since the end of may, hundreds of trains cancelled daily – a total and utter failure to reorganise the timetable. the uk transport secretary doesn’t seem to accept responsibility and won’t resign. i urge those in the eu who think franchise in uk-style provides any model for how rail should be run, to think again.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, one big problem facing the council is, of course, brexit and the big hole that it’s going to leave in the eu budget. but we’re not really any closer to leaving the european union than we were the day after the referendum. mrs may is a remainer who doesn’t really want to leave and, of course, as you found out, she couldn’t negotiate her way out of a wet paper bag. the whole process for the last two years has been about to delay and impede in the hope of eventually overturning the result of the referendum. this week the commons votes on the withdrawal bill, and that’s entirely dependent upon this house voting on the withdrawal agreement later this year. of course, you could vote against it. the whole thing then reverts to square one, like a game of political snakes and ladders. but it doesn’t have to be that way. under the right leadership, britain could leave the european union quickly and decisively, and this is how it should be done. first of all, forget article 50 – that’s your device, not ours. parliament should repeal the european communities act of 1973 as a first step, and then we would have left under our law, not your law. we can offer you a free trade agreement with everything except the free movement of people, or trade on wto terms. it’s going to be your choice anyway: take it or leave it, one way or the other. and we could easily reach an agreement on the reciprocal rights of citizens. parliament can then repeal or amend all the eu-derived law in accordance with its own timescales and priorities, and i’m sure that can be done in a spirit of friendly cooperation with our good friends here in europe. her majesty’s government shouldn’t be asking the european union how it can leave; it should be telling you how it’s going to work. but, of course, that is never going to happen under mrs may. mrs may should go now and make way for a prime minister who actually wants to leave the european union. that would be good for us, but it would actually be good for you as well.
mr president, the june european council should be an opportunity to make strides towards the united kingdom’s amicable and orderly exit from the european union. those who claim it is a last-chance saloon for a deal on the border limit what can be achieved. they fail to realise that agreeing future trade and avoiding friction on the border go hand in hand. yet, mr barnier continues to disrespect the integrity of the united kingdom. the united kingdom government’s proposal on the backstop would apply to the entire united kingdom. the commission response has been to revert to the annexation of northern ireland as part of specific customs or regulatory arrangements. let me be clear once again in this house: not only is this damaging to the economy of northern ireland, it is a position that the prime minister has said no british prime minister could ever agree to. furthermore, it is damaging to community relations in northern ireland. if a brexit border solution is to succeed, it must find peace with both communities, and that includes the unionist community as well. this reflects a practical reality and is in line with the consent principle of the belfast agreement. we want to see a sensible solution without the infection of a political dogma, but our relationship must be about respect and reflect the realities of open trade.
madam president, i’m sure i was not alone in feeling a cold shiver down my spine when i saw that chilling photograph of the world leaders at the g7. for those of us who believe in a rules—based international system, trump’s deliberately disruptive behaviour in quebec and at the united nations, the world trade organization and now in singapore is deeply disturbing. trump’s treatment of canadian prime minister trudeau was despicable but typical of his bullying style. he doesn’t want to be isolated in a room-ful of cooperative world leaders, he wants to corner them one by one, so that he can make america great again at their expense. if the uk does go ahead with leaving the eu at a time when the global rules—based system is being shredded by trump faster than the promises made by brexiteers, we face a very dangerous future. that’s why i will be marching twice in london in the next few months: first on 23 june to demand a people’s vote on the brexit deal, and then again on 13 july to oppose the visit of president trump to the uk. those of us who believe in democracy and the rule of law know that brexit and trump are two sides of the same coin – a coordinated attack on the global system that has ensured peace and prosperity since the second world war. both must be confronted and both must be overcome.
madam president, we have perfidious albion. the british foreign minister believes that worrying about ireland is a folly. if boris johnson has his way then the border in ireland will be hardened and strengthened. positive and constructive proposals accepted by the british government in december are rejected by them within days. fantasy proposals are put in place instead. perfidious albion. and to buy a bit more time for the coalition agreement by the british government and their allies in the democratic unionist party – the jurassic party – agreements are torn up, and rights are denied. enough is enough. the whole of the eu and europe knows what needs to be done, and it is up to the dublin government and to all of the eu council member to stand up to perfidious albion in june and not to be persuaded by the disgraceful irish times editorial of yesterday, or by the nonsense by diane dodds mep. the dup do not speak for the people of the north on brexit. the british government does not care, unfortunately, about the people of ireland – north or south – having to salvage ourselves from the brexit wreckage.
madam president, you lot had better wake up. the world is moving on while you still sit there and discuss the same old thing, month after month after month. trump and kim: let’s celebrate it. austria, italy, hungary, poland, slovenia: they’re all moving on. your regime has become more and more irrelevant. in london on saturday, 20 000 people attended a rally to free political prisoner tommy robinson, and those 20 000 people supported brexit. in may, another 10 000 people marched in support of free speech. they too support brexit. 17.4 million people voted for brexit. they still support brexit. the majority of the people want the government to get on with brexit. you people entertain uk remoaners – the modern—day devil, george soros: a foreigner kicked out of his own country, an open—borders billionaire who openly fights democracy. he openly pays meps to dance to his tune. you’re all suffering from ddd – democracy deficit disorder – and that’s why we’re marching again in london on 23 june. we want our country back.
don’t cut me off.
yes, but do you know, i’m not speaking to all of them in here; i’m speaking to the uk. i’m speaking to mrs may. i wasn’t sent here to talk to any of you. i was sent here to defend the british people. most of you understand english. english is the language of the world. english is the language of this parliament.
madam president, a class war is being waged across the united kingdom and europe, a class war that pits the snobbish sect of the upper classes against the working and unemployed masses. a snobbish sect that thinks the lower classes are too thick, too dumb, too stupid, for voting for populists and brexit. a snobbish sect that pits the young against the old, the rich against the poor, the university-educated against those that didn’t go to university. a snobbish sect that have bribed and cajoled academics to support the eu with grants and awards, that have bribed lobbyist think-tanks and corporations with eu funding and subsidies and provided politicians with money and positions. a snobbish sect that today will unleash their crony cohorts of politicians in the uk parliament to overthrow the brexit bill. well i hope those crony mps and meps enjoy their 50 pieces of euro silver as they dump on the face of democracy and seek to deny brexit. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, i will be going home at the end of march 2019, thanks to the 17.4 million people that decided brexit was a brighter future for britain outside of the european union. but i also do speak for those people up there who understand that there is a class war going on in europe as well. a class war that is seeking to deny those who have been voted in in poland and hungary, in slovenia. those people who have voted for those in germany in the afd; for those in holland, those in france, those who seek a different future for europe, not an […]orientated future… (microphone suddenly cuts out)… that you, and many meps in this chamber, support.
madam president, there are only three weeks to go to the next european council, but there is no sign that the british will be at all ready for the discussion that will take place there on brexit. two years after the referendum, it does not even have a starting position for the negotiations as regards a key issue such as what kind of customs arrangements we might have for a future. it has now promised a white paper to set out its vision for the future, which will only be published after the european council, well after two years after the referendum. only yesterday, theresa may was forced to plead with her own conservative mps not to vote against her in the key votes that will take place today in the british house of commons and tomorrow. she is desperately trying to avoid defeat at the hands of her own mps. personally, i hope enough of them will put country before career, patriotism before party and britain before a bad brexit.
mr president, on a point of order under rule 147. everybody can be at risk from mechanical delays, but yesterday on the special train that brought many of us from brussels there were delays: we had the most appalling circumstances and we were kept in difficult conditions. can i as quaestor ask you to join me in apologising to all of those people who were stuck on that train? but it’s not just that train. many other meps and staff had travel delays getting to strasbourg, and it highlights the absurdity of dragging us 500 kilometres to strasbourg every month. there are meps, parliamentary staff, committee staff, group staff, commission staff, council staff – they all have to come to strasbourg. it wastes our time, it wastes money and it brings this institution into disrepute. mr president, please can we ask you to talk to the president of this house and ask him to bring it up again with president tusk and look again at the treaties to reflect the will of this house and give us a single seat in which to work? (applause)
mr president, on a happier note, can i just call a point of order to invite parliament to congratulate the bulgarian authorities for saving penka the cow, showing that common sense and compassion can trump eu rules?
mr president, i was interested in what ms bearder was saying regarding the delay on the eu gravy train coming to strasbourg. may i say: now she knows what it’s like for her everyday constituents travelling by rail to work. i think she’s living in another world, on another planet.
mr president, it nice to see you in the chair. congratulations on how you handled the session. this report is a neat symbol of how the european union can’t see anything that it doesn’t want to regulate. the idea that recreational fisheries – something that has been self—regulating for as long as human civilisation has existed, or indeed longer – needs to be brought within the jurisdiction of the european union and subjected to the strictures of the common fisheries policy is a measure of the ambition that we have in these brussels institutions. the european union, i think, has learned from the bad pr of the last time that it tried to do this, when it was literally wanting to count every fish landed, even from people fishing on the rocks. it has now done what it usually does, which is to pay for a lobby group, supposedly representing the anglers, who are in fact a group created by the commission, and then pretend that the legislation is representative of the sector. but stand back and ask the question: why does any of this need to be regulated at eu level at all? if we can’t allow this kind of activity to be flourishing outside the sphere of political control, then truly we have no limits whatever to our ambition.
mr president, when we were talking about clearing obligations, i want to use my time to talk about the importance of the single market. today in the house of commons, british mps will begin debating amendments on the brexit bill. it will come as no surprise to this house that, as a labour mep who has committed my time in politics to europe, i am against brexit and i do not support the uk leaving the european union and thus the single market. yet the uk could remain as part of the single market through an amendment on the eea. i urge those who are in the house of commons today and tomorrow and who will be voting on these issues to look at the eea amendment to support jobs, support livelihoods and to support prosperity. an estimated 300 000 jobs in scotland alone rely on our access to the single market. the estimate across the uk is something in the region of 3 million. so for the future of my country, if we are no longer going to be part of the single market through the eu, we need to be part of the single market through the eea, an option that is open to mps. i urge them to support the amendments today in the house of commons.
mr president, i welcome this report’s new rules, so that the european aviation safety agency (easa) can collect data on links between poor working conditions and flight safety. i believe it is vital, as exploitative employment models soar at low-cost airlines. take ryanair pilots and first officers, based at stansted in my constituency. many are not directly employed by the airline but are employed as contractors, meaning that they do not have access to sick pay. some ryanair pilots have told me that they go into work not feeling 100%, as otherwise they won’t get paid. i have yet to meet a passenger who wants their pilot to be feeling a bit under the weather. when you’re hurtling through the air at 500 miles an hour at 30 000 feet, you want a pilot to be on top of their game. of course, currently this is all anecdotal, but thanks to this vote, now we’ve got the power to truly discover what price safety.
mr president, this report rightly sets a vision for education that is about broadening horizons and encouraging young people to have the highest possible ambition and aspiration. but that will never be fully possible while we still have universities that have admissions systems that disadvantage young people from certain backgrounds, while university fees are too high, while we have erasmus opportunities not available to enough young people from working class backgrounds, and while we still have the outrageous scandal of unpaid internships in this house, in other political institutions and in other sectors as well. the best educational opportunities are not a luxury for the richest. they must always be for the many, and not the few.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the signing of the jcpoa with iran in 2015 was a breakthrough to halt the march towards nuclear proliferation in an unstable region. according to the iaea’s verification and monitoring programme, although the limits were probed and are being probed, no outright violations have been detected to date. i would like also to take the opportunity to acknowledge the role of baroness ashton and the role of the european external action service in bringing the deal to fruition back in 2015. president trump’s decision, therefore, to pull out now and risk unravelling this finely-tuned agreement is baffling. it sends all the wrong signals to the other wannabe nuclear states, including the dprk. the remaining eu signatories have a vital role now. on the one hand, the us must be persuaded that the deal is still our best tool against nuclear proliferation, and on the other hand, iran must be encouraged to continue to meet all its obligations. finding ways to financially protect the european union companies doing business with iran will indeed be challenging. in europe, of course we do not share common values with the iranian government. there are still other major issues of concern to be addressed, such as the iranian ballistic missile programme, its involvement in proxy wars in the region, gross human rights violations and supporting terrorism, but we must not let one poorly-advised anti-multilateralist president destroy an agreement that has, at its heart, the desire to maintain a more peaceful world. i am very grateful that brexiting britain is backing the european union, not its traditional ‘special relationship’ partner, the united states, on this very important issue.
mr president, recently in yemen the houthis announced that their missiles could now reach abu dhabi and that emiratis could expect similar attacks to those carried out against saudi targets. let me be clear: all these missiles are iranian. the houthis are unable to fight the legitimate authorities in yemen without the active involvement of iran. madam high representative, if you consider the destabilisation in lebanon, the tragedy in syria and the resurgence of hezbollah, there is one common denominator: iranian regional aspirations. why no mention of the human rights abuses against the iranian people and the murder of iranians speaking out against this despotic regime? why are you not speaking about these criminal acts? why not hold the revolutionary guard to account, or are drug smuggling and money laundering no longer a concern of anyone here? are you seriously suggesting that we can trust this regime, and indeed saying that we should reward them? perhaps you are so guided by your anti—american rhetoric that you will stubbornly take everyone down this disastrous path, although, as always, it will be others who will ultimately pay the price of your folly.
mr president, the iran deal is dying before our eyes and only europe is still clinging on to this flawed plan. lauded as a means of ensuring peace and security for generations, its only effects have been to potentially catalyse yet more death and destruction in the already unstable middle east, and to drive a wedge in western diplomacy, as trump actually follows through with his campaign pledges and ends us participation. the usa will be re-imposing sanctions on iran. it was also reported last week that the iranian regime is looking at options to boost uranium enrichment in case the deal fails. so let’s be clear: iran is preparing for the failure of the nuclear deal. but what is the eu’s reaction to all this? the commission is trying to force through a delegated act to make iran eligible for european investment bank funding. not content with clinging to a dying deal, you actually want to give economic and political support to the iranian regime. it makes sense though doesn’t it? trump pulls out of the nuclear deal and you see an opportunity to make the eu look like big players on the world stage. this is more about eu vanity than it is about solving complicated political issues. it is almost as if the eu is trying to fight a proxy war against america in the middle east. our ability to influence iran is greatly weakened without us participation. if the eu and europe’s major powers continue down this line, its only real impact will be to tilt backwards towards the anti-americanism that seeps through the seams of these institutions. so how will this affect potential economic projects financed by the eib? how will this influence the deteriorating trade and diplomatic relations between the eu and usa? according to reuters internal sources, the eib is unhappy with the commission proposal because the eib raises funds on us markets. to make matters worse, a delegated act is a power the unelected commission has to adopt legislation without any anyone who was elected having a vote. so this proposal is far from being democratic and accountable. whilst we will of course continue to work closely with european allies when our interests converge, this is not one of those times. may’s government is too scared to fully embrace the opportunities and independence that brexit provides, and is continuing to follow eu policies and legislation, no matter the cost to the uk. don’t get me wrong. i don’t want an independent britain to be the 51st state of america. but the british people certainly voted to stop being the eu’s 28th state. this is going to be one of the first big tests for the uk to refind its place in the world as an independent nation. the whole point of brexit was to make our own democratic rules and pursue our own interests, but like the rest of the negotiations, ms may will surrender to the eu, following eu rules and policies as closely as possible, completely against the express will of the british people. the uk government, packed with remainers, could not see the benefits of brexit before the vote and is too scared to seize them now. this is not academia or a domestic political squabble, but will have real and long-lasting effects on our standing in the world, driving a wedge between the uk and our most important strategic partner, the usa. we should not follow mogherini’s vanity project at the expense of our most important global relationship. it is time for us to follow our american allies and call it as we see it. the iran deal is dead, and we must seek out a new style of diplomacy, one that actually gets results, as we are seeing on the current korean peninsula ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, three years ago i spoke here against the disastrous iran nuclear agreement, the jcpoa. i have to ask ms mogherini: what are you celebrating by signing this deal? is it the freeing up of usd 100 billion in frozen assets so iran can sponsor terrorism, funding hezbollah in lebanon and syria, hamas in gaza, houthi rebel missiles in yemen, annexing iraq and destabilising bahrain? iran is a septic octopus with its poisonous tentacles wrapped all around the middle east. or are you proud that iran lied to you about its nuclear ambitions (as secret papers released by the israelis prove) or has engaged in five ballistic missile tests since the deal was signed? or was it that, even if it fully complies, that regime can still have uranium enrichment? or is it the fat contracts for total, airbus, peugeot and citroen? i fully agree with president trump’s bold decision to withdraw the us from the deal and return to sanctions. trump is right. the eu is wrong.
mr president, while us president trump claims to champion denuclearisation in one part of the world – signing a deal with north korea built on shaky grounds of twitter diplomacy and laced with vague, noncommittal wording – he abandons the strong, solid nuclear deal with iran: the product of years of negotiations by the international community, and the effectiveness of which is attested by at least 10 international atomic energy agency (iaea) reports. high representative, in your address to us earlier, you stressed the importance of the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa). the majority of this house agrees, but now it is vital that we ensure that the re—imposition of us sanctions does not spell an end to the deal. so my questions to you are: the eib, as we’ve heard before, has been asked to extend its activities to iran to help shield businesses from the us sanctions, but it is hesitant because it is worried about us retaliation. but as far as i’m concerned, their core mandate is to carry out our policies, and there’s nothing more important than carrying out this particular deal.
madam president, as the eyes of the world focus on the iranian nuclear deal and trump’s unilateral decision, i ask colleagues to keep in mind the people of iran. human rights in iran continue to deteriorate, with peaceful protests facing intimidation, violence, detention and torture. while we work to preserve the nuclear deal, we must never lose sight of the principles and values upon which this parliament was built. we must never stop standing up for those without a voice and holding those with power to account. we must never stop in our efforts to promote democracy, free speech, the rule of law and the right to peaceful protest. this house must stand in solidarity with the people of iran, who desire these most basic of freedoms, and this house must stand in solidarity with those in iran currently in prison, enduring torture, or those who face the death penalty for the simple belief that tomorrow may be better than today.
madam president, whilst i am hugely concerned about trump’s irresponsible and dangerous foreign policy, tearing up a landmark, eu-brokered deal designed to presage a more peaceful world, i want to remind those in positions of power and influence that many people remain unfairly imprisoned in iran, a country with an appalling human rights record. nazanin zaghari—ratcliffe is a british—iranian dual citizen, who is currently detained in evin prison on trumped up charges, her situation sadly made worse by boris johnson’s ignorant and careless words. having met nazanin’s husband, richard, i can testify to the terrible pain being experienced by her family. so i urgently call on the high representative to use all the means in her power to urge the iranian authorities to release nazanin and others like her. i’d also like to express my solidarity with the iranian people, who occupied the streets to protest against corruption and rising prices. despite calling itself moderate, the current government continues to violate human rights and disregard the iranian people’s wish for a more open country.
rapporteur. – madam president, having been around long enough in this house as an mep to remember the first association agreement agreed between the european union and chile, as long ago as 2002, it is rather fitting that in my final months as a member i find myself proudly authoring the recommendation report ahead of the ongoing negotiations for its upgrade. as the european union has emerged as one of the leading forces in the global free trade agenda, i welcome its attention to third-generation updated agreements such as we see today with chile, rather than wholly pursuing new deals from scratch. we are focused on the political operation aspects but let us not forget that these negotiations are also concerned with trade issues. chile has re-emerged over the last three decades as a mature democracy with a strong internationalist outlook. as a member of the pacific alliance, the organisation of american states and the union of south american nations, not to mention being a member of the oecd. its links and areas of cooperation go well beyond its immediate region and are truly global. although already cooperating in eu crisis management operations– this would include in fact things like the csdp operations, eurofor in bosnia – since 2014, it is also hoped that the renewed association agreement will see further cooperation being developed in the coming years. we proposed in our recommendation an ambitious level of commitment, one that is no less wide-ranging than the similar eu agreements recently concluded with canada, new zealand and australia. this includes working together in the international arena to promote democracy and the rule of law to fight climate change, particularly critical in the pacific region, combating terrorism and tackling organised crime and corruption. in the area of education, the european union seeks to continue cooperation via erasmus+, but also to work towards full mutual recognition of academic and professional qualifications and diplomas. we have also highlighted the important role the parliamentary oversight and scrutiny has in monitoring such agreements, and so we have endorsed the continued role for the joint parliamentary committee which met for its 25th occasion back in january of this year. as the negotiations progress we will hope to see continued engagement from the commission as to the latest developments. its decision to publish the negotiating mandate and directives in november of last year was an important precedent and one which we welcome and are very keen to see continued. indeed, we have made reference to this in the recommendation. with the third round of negotiations concluded in brussels on 1 june 2018, i am confident that the talks are progressing well. the bulk of discussions are now focusing on trade rather than the political aspects, which are in my recommendation. chile is clearly a natural partner with common democratic interests and aspirations everywhere. this was further reflected by the positive dialogue concluded with members of european civil society groups that was arranged as part of the latest talks between the eu and chilean negotiators. i will conclude my remarks therefore now, although i look forward to making a brief intervention at the end of the debate when i will be happy to address any issues raised, and to make a few comments regarding the two key amendments i have tabled to the resolution for a vote.
rapporteur. – madam president, i too would like to thank the commissioner for his kind words and in particular the words from the shadow rapporteurs and the various interventions from colleagues. i too am proud that the european union’s member states sent firefighters to chile to help fight fires, that chile welcomes refugees from the maduro venezuelan dictatorial regime and that chile does scientific research jointly with the european union’s member states’ scientists under the copernicus programme. these show what kind of mature and advanced country chile really is. the wider eu-latin american cooperation project is also one which is a natural fit of like-minded continents with shared history, culture, and, largely, respect for democracy, with sad exceptions like cuba and venezuela. but latin america, by and large, is a democratic continent; we need to respect that and we need to work closely with it. i would just like to briefly mention my two amendments: amendment 1, which is to change the word ‘dispute’ to the word ‘matters’. in my view, there is no conflict with the mapuche people. i wish to soften the text by doing that. i hope that colleagues will support that. in amendment 2, i disagree with the intervention from my green colleague. access to water is, of course, a human right everywhere, but the economic model that is employed is a chilean national sovereign matter, not for interference by the eu or by our report. water companies are often privately owned within eu member states, so it would be totally ridiculous for us to prescribe an economic model to chile and interference in their domestic affairs. so please support amendment 2. finally, thank you very much colleagues. it has been an interesting debate, and i think that chile-eu relations will go from strength to strength.
mr president, every year we evaluate the situation of human rights and democracy in the world. it is upsetting to admit that not only are we making insufficient progress, but we are also going in the opposite direction. we are witnessing a growing number of attacks against human rights defenders, as well as a reduced space for civil society organisations. many governments have introduced repressive laws to curtail basic freedoms for citizens. in front of an increasingly challenging international context, the eu stands as the leading human rights actor. the first review of the eu action plan has shown positive results in mainstreaming human rights in our external action. the next step is to make sure that each international agreement includes a human rights clause so that companies based in third countries, as well as in europe, comply with international standards. in this regard, the eu has a responsibility to act and be a global leader. we cannot let non—democracies take the lead and impose their anti—rights agenda. now, more than ever, we need to be at the forefront of the promotion of human rights and steer the wheel in the right direction. i know the commissioner is a very passionate ambassador of human rights. i’m sure he’ll do a great job.
mr president, 10 years have passed since the august 2008 war between russia and georgia. yet the russian federation continues its illegal occupation of the georgian regions of abkhazia and tskhinvali, south ossetia. the regime continues to deny access to the vital and constructive eu monitoring mission, and human rights monitors from the un, the osce and the council of europe, in the occupied regions. russia has intensified its military build-up in both areas including the stationing of fully operational military bases. illegal detentions and kidnappings continue to take place, undermining international law and violating human rights. crossing points over the so-called occupation line have been closed, aggravating the humanitarian situation and further isolating the regions. the s&d group strongly supports the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia, while the resolution of this conflict is crucial to enhancing security and stability across europe. we must demonstrate our solidarity with the citizens of the occupied regions and support our georgian colleagues’ peace initiative, ‘a step to a better future’. i hope that despite 10 years of occupation, we can help to achieve better relations between those kept apart by the fences of the occupied regions and the rest of georgia.
mr president, ten years on since the end of the war between georgia and russia, which left a frozen conflict over russian occupation of abkhazia and south ossetia, it’s clear that the two countries have taken a very distinctly different path – one a democratic one, one an authoritarian one. as a long-standing friend of georgia, i stand with the eu in commending the country’s transition away from its soviet past and towards a free, democratic one with euro-atlantic aspirations and an open state and an open society. i especially praise georgia’s dedication to modernising its defence capabilities and its close cooperation with international partners in seeking a peaceful resolution to the conflict. russia, by contrast, continues to undermine the international rules-based system through its actions in georgia and, i might also add, in crimea and in eastern ukraine. its breach of the 2008 eu-mediated ceasefire agreement by engaging in ethnic cleansing, placing physical borders between georgia and the occupied territories, engaging in borderisation and more, is to be condemned in the strongest terms. i reaffirm my group’s support for the territorial integrity of georgia and truly hope for a peaceful resolution to this conflict. this, however, must first begin with russia fully acknowledging and acting on its international law and human rights obligations.
mr president, madam high representative, you speak about the realities on the ground and you say we recognise and react accordingly. the realities on the ground today mean that a body can be returned without the organs inside. the realities mean that the actions of others should dictate our thoughts, and our thoughts should become our words, and our words our actions. i have put my name to this resolution today, as chair of the respective committee from this parliament, because we as a parliament are absolutely clear: this is an occupation. high representative, your words were lacking today, yet again in this regard. follow the lead of this house, you are a sister institution. this is an occupation in south ossetia and abkhazia. our sister institutions must recognise that. if you cannot do that today when you once again address this parliament, please make sure that at least your institution starts to back up the true feelings of the ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, russia’s disregard for international law increases every day as it continues to impose its own unilateral and outdated agenda and to protect its own cynical interests, regardless of international condemnation. georgia and ukraine have been victims of this aggressive foreign policy, amongst many others. and when it comes to domestic policies, russia also repeatedly violates international human rights law, cracking down on freedom of expression and assembly, causing its own citizens to live in fear of state-sponsored and extra-judicial reprisals. in a global context, where the leading role cannot be played by the us anymore, it is crucial that we in the eu continue to push for international relations guided by the rule of law. it is our responsibility to uphold international law, and multilateralism is the only way forward.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, there’s much in the paşcu report on which we can agree, in particular the final paragraph which recognises the need for the eu to ensure a close security and defence partnership with the united kingdom after brexit. the uk is, after all, and will remain, the pre—eminent european military power. as referred to by ms mogherini, it is also right that due attention be given to the ease of mobility of allied forces across europe, not just in times of tension but also for exercise purposes when necessary. particularly at a time when there is some friction in transatlantic relations, and as we approach july’s nato summit, it is doubly important that european nations signal to the united states our willingness to bear more of the defence burden. the americans, after all, have increased their european reassurance initiative, which further confirms us resolve to defend europe, by some 40% to usd 4.8 billion. just this local increase by the united states is more than the total defence spending of at least 10 european countries. i suggest that european burden sharing is not improved by the creation of separate defence structures, by the exclusion of major third countries from defence industrial projects or from pursuit of an elusive and ill—defined eu strategic autonomy. this is all about european political integration, not defence, and is the central weakness – i’m sorry to say – of the report.
madam president, nato is facing unprecedented challenges. it is forced to expand its operations for the first time since the cold war, to extend its actions into domains of counter-terrorism and cybersecurity. transatlantic unity is vital to nato, but it’s crumbling, as we evidenced at g7 earlier this week. that’s why next month’s nato summit has to sustain the momentum in the creation of the european defence union. we cannot waste over eur 25 billion a year on inefficiencies. my questions to the high representative are: whilst russia is clearly a top priority, what about the world’s second largest defence spender, increasingly aggressive in the south and east china sea and spectacularly growing its military footprint in africa – china? i do recognise that there have been talks at staff level with china that have resumed, but the eu and nato need to engage more actively in this part of the world to avoid being behind the curve. secondly, regardless of brexit, uk and eu security will remain closely entwined. what is the architecture of our future cooperation? how do we ensure unity remains the watchword for our security?
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, to start off with, let’s address corruption in ukraine. the finance minister for ukraine was dismissed last week. the stated reason for the dismissal was disseminating false information. one has to ask: what was this? very simply, the now ex—finance minister revealed, exposed, spilt the beans on corruption in ukraine. hopefully, everyone here will agree that we must not condone – let alone be fellow travellers to – corruption. indeed, we must actively oppose it. transparency international is a globally respected organisation, especially on anti-corruption. on its criteria, ukraine is categorised as the second most corrupt country on the entire european continent. to put it another way: ukraine rates even worse for corruption than the gangster—influenced regimes of albania and kosovo. ukraine has delayed and delayed over and over again the establishment of an anti-corruption court. vote or no vote, let us see how long it is before the president implements that vote. worse, campaigners against corruption have been intimidated and, in some cases, imprisoned. to provide an example: on 15 march this year, one nadia savchenko testified on the corruption in the office of the president of ukraine. one week later, ms savchenko was placed under arrest and charged with terrorism offenses. the same president had previously awarded ms savchenko ukraine’s highest honour for bravery against terrorists. these practices must be deemed to be unacceptable. every informed person – and that has to include the eu embassy in ukraine, and therefore the commissioner – knows about the appalling level of corruption in ukraine. the sacking of the finance minister last week for opposing corruption should have caused the alarm bells to ring. instead, the considered response of the ukraine groupies in the commission and, regrettably, in this parliament (and there are many honourable exceptions) is simply to hand out to ukraine – without question, without adequate audits, and without enough consideration – these very large sums of money, all paid for by the taxpayer. what we are discussing this evening with such rapidity is over eur 1 billion. by comparison, the international monetary fund (imf) is holding back on its assistance programmes to ukraine, precisely because of well—founded concerns on corruption. on the objective criteria of the imf, ukraine does not pass muster as a worthy recipient of large—scale funds. the eu should follow the same course as the imf: these payments should not be made. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i’ll just deal with ukraine, and not the city of london. what ukraine is doing is too little, too late – it’s not enough. these funds should be held back. i would point you again – if i may presume to do so – to the example of the imf: that is the view that the imf has taken. i strongly recommend that the eu and the commission do the self—same thing. and thank you very much for your interruption.
madam president, eu macrofinancial assistance should, of course, support ukraine’s commitment to values shared with the union, including democracy, the rule of law, good governance, respect for human rights, sustainable development and poverty reduction. as we know, this step change requires a strong civil society. so, as a long-standing friend of ukraine, i wish to put on record that one of the things we must do is to guard against the continuation of an old boys’ club. the women and youth of ukraine are immensely talented: full of ideas and energy, and ready to step up to make the changes that are required in a 21st—century modern democracy. but such a transformation requires men to step aside and to understand that, when women take a seat at the table, everyone wins.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i wish to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. it has been a pleasure to work with him and the other shadows on this serious issue. the report recognises that cybersecurity and the defence of europe’s cyberspace is one of the most important challenges that we face now. it also emphasises that there needs to be an integrated policy response with cooperation between civilian, security and military stakeholders. the threats we face are multiple, coming from individuals, criminal gangs and states. in the uk last year our health service was severely affected by a cyber—attack launched by north korea. that was not the only state—sponsored attack which the eu has suffered. it is essential that europe stand united against attacks such as wannacry and notpetya. cyber—attacks, whatever their source, do not respect national boundaries, making it all the more important to work together at an eu level. in the same week that the new european defence fund is launched, we want to see more invested in europe’s ability to defend itself. as the report makes clear, there needs to be more investment in cyber—expertise, emphasising the need for more experts in the cyber—defence domain and the facilitation of cooperation between existing experts. we also need to develop our capabilities to ensure better attribution of cyber—attacks, enabling a stronger coordinated response to those specific attacks that impact all of us across europe. the eu should also fulfil the role it plays so well in other areas: namely, leading the development of international laws and standards in this field. our job as parliamentarians is to build a safer, more secure, eu. i believe the recommendations in this report are fundamental to delivering that safety and security to our citizens.
madam president, the internet should be a force for good: a common space that promotes quality education and inspired learning, better communication, creativity and intercultural dialogue. the internet should support fair and sustainable trade and uphold human rights, and it should most definitely not be prey to those wishing to hijack democracy, such as was evidenced by the cambridge analytica, aig and facebook scandals that were behind the trump and brexit campaigns and the kenyan presidential election in august 2017, which was subsequently annulled by the supreme court. one way to improve cyber—defence is to improve internet governance, and the annual internet governance forum (igf) is an excellent example of multi—stakeholder engagement in a pressing issue that concerns us all. i’d like to particularly commend the work of the youth igf, a network of young people in developed and less—developed countries who are active in their local communities and in the online space.
madam president, i welcome the report and i support the development of the circular economy as one of the five cohesion policy goals post—2020. even though i would treat some of the figures that are thrown around on job creation with caution, the potential for the creation of new jobs from circular markets is clear – as are, indeed, the sustainability benefits of moving from new materials in an extractive economy: they’re also self-evident. but i have two observations. if viable circular markets are to develop, then a strategy for supporting those markets has to emerge, otherwise they will not be able to compete effectively against existing linear markets. secondly, central and local government will be vital, within that strategy, in underpinning the development of mature circular markets through sustainable procurement, as it will in sustainable waste management processes on which the circular economy will depend.
cumbria recycling in my north west constituency is an excellent best practice example of the circular economy. it operates in a deprived peripheral region that has benefited hugely from eu cohesion policy and financial support. working within the parameters of eu waste directives and operating as a successful social enterprise, cumbria recycling diverts electronic waste away from landfill through the collection and sustainable reuse of electronics: waste that others may deem as useless. cumbria recycling processes over 2000 tons annually of waste and electrical and electronic equipment for the reuse and sorting for recycling of raw materials. in the post—brexit world, it will be hugely important for the uk to maintain its commitment to the highest environmental standards and also to continue to provide support for enterprises like cumbria recycling, who fundamentally understand the social return on investment that comes with the circular economy.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, mr rutte, you spoke about listening to the people, but in holland, of course, in 2005 you had a referendum on the constitution. that was ignored. we got the lisbon treaty, which was the constitution in another form, in 2016. the dutch voted against the ukrainian association agreement, and that has been ignored. the eu rule is to pay and obey, so if you can change that, then good luck to you. now, europe can have a great and prosperous future, but not if the european union is planning it. the european union is responsible for many of the problems that beset europe, and your solution is always the same: to have more power. the european union was always about creating an undemocratic state – a ‘united states of europe’ – and it has always been about deconstructing nation states and transferring political power to brussels. that would be bad enough in itself, but you have actually made a complete mess of governing the member states. there are two areas in which this is obvious to the ordinary citizen: the economy and security. the creation of the euro was a political project, not an economic project, and was an entirely predictable disaster and has brought about financial austerity and unemployment. the dead hand of european bureaucracy impedes business and makes it increasingly harder for small businesses to operate, to create new jobs and to grow prosperities. your policies have blighted the lives of millions of people. meanwhile, our security is endangered because of the results of mass immigration. under mrs merkel’s leadership you have brought in millions of people from africa, the middle east and beyond, and you intend to bring in millions more. you have turned many parts of europe into foreign countries. you use the emotional blackmail argument of talking about helping defenceless refugee families, and yet the reality is that the vast majority of these migrants are young men from islamic countries. this is not immigration, this is invasion. (shouted comments from the floor) traditionally, europe resisted islamic invasion. heroic struggles in the siege of malta, at the gates of vienna, have now been replaced by abject surrender. islam offers two options: submit or resist. (interjection from the floor: ‘rubbish’) you have decided to surrender and submit on behalf of your citizens. but some states are resisting. rebellion is now stirring in hungary, poland, the czech republic, austria and elsewhere. the tide is turning against the eu, and best of all, we have brexit: a modern peasants’ revolt against their out-of-touch overlords. when britain leaves the european union, we can point the way for a europe of independent democratic nation states. most people want a europe of genuine trade, friendship and cooperation. they do not want rule from brussels. (mixed reactions from the floor)
mr president, good morning, prime minister, and thank you for coming to the chamber and for taking questions. i’ve got three for you, sir. the first one concerns trade. you’ve made the point that the dutch economy depends on trade with the united kingdom as a result of the rotterdam effect. i do appreciate the point you made about the single market and why, therefore, you would want the united kingdom to remain part of that, but you’ve also effectively admitted the issue of punitive tariffs post-brexit making no economic sense for your own country. can we ask, therefore, that you champion not only support for a free—trade deal for the united kingdom post-brexit, but that you also champion free trade change within the remaining european union member states? my second question: you raise the issue of rule of law and electoral process. you, i hope, will be aware of billionaire george soros, a fifth columnist, to use a phrase used this morning, interfering in a democratic referendum result on brexit in the united kingdom. can i ask, how would you deal with that sort of political interference and how will you try and influence european union policy to stop that degree of national affront to democracy and affront to national democratic process?
mr president, i would like to thank the prime minister very much for addressing us today. i have a couple of quick questions. the first is about the migration crisis. would you agree with me that, in order to address the migration problem, we need to get to the root causes, and that is the failed states – many of which we’ve interfered in – like afghanistan, iraq and libya? would you not say that we need to trade with these nations so that they can find themselves in a better place to help their citizens to remain where they are? the second question is on human rights and the fact that economic power is going to the east, to china and india. these countries believe that economic development will, in the end, see that human rights are respected. would you not agree, at a time when, in myanmar, millions of people have had to seek refuge in neighbouring countries where ethnic cleansing and genocide is taking place, that we in europe have to say that this is unacceptable and that human rights values have to be respected?
mr president, prime minister rutte, you have made a strong case for the role of the eu in external security and foreign policy matters, and you rightly cited russian expansionism as an example where we work better together in preventing it. but to me, brexit is a destructive and selfish act, but at least prime minister may has requested that the uk and the eu have a very special and deep partnership in terms of external security and defence matters post-brexit. but as a third country, the uk’s role, for instance with pesco or over justice and home affairs matters, will be very limited. recently, for instance, the commission refused to allow the uk to participate in the galileo project. so how do you envisage keeping the uk, a p5 member and a nuclear power with serious armed forces, fully plugged in and actively engaged with the eu security and defence structures post-brexit?
mr president, the prime minister quoted winston churchill in his speech, but the british prime minister he reminded me of the most when he spoke was, sadly, david cameron. like him, you, prime minister, railed against the treaty provision on ever-closer union without quoting the full sentence, which refers to closer union respecting the principle of subsidiarity: in other words, as decentralised as possible and only centralised where necessary. like him, you spoke of a european union that only acts on the big things and not the little things. but the biggest thing this union does is the single european market, where the devil is in the detail, hence all the detailed legislation that ministers who like to attack brussels subsequently rail against and denounce as interference. you spoke of europe inflicting legislation on member states and doing too much, as if member states were blissfully unaware of what was happening, yet no legislation is agreed without the approval of the council of ministers, composed of national ministers accountable to national parliaments. it’s time that national politicians ceased to rail against brussels as if it was something alien and started explaining it to citizens. otherwise you might have the same thing happening in your country.
mr president, under rule 11(3), i wanted to point out we’ve had two unelected commissioners come to this parliament and insult elected members of this parliament, calling them ‘extreme’. under rule 11(3), you are meant to show mutual respect and not be defamatory. this is a disgrace. we are the elected; they are the unelected. they should show us some respect. (applause and cheering from certain quarters)
mr president, i have an oral amendment: ‘the finance minister for ukraine was dismissed on 7 june; the finance minister had objected to government payments on the grounds of corruption’.
mr president, i don’t know if you’re familiar with orwell’s concept of duckspeak, which he introduces in 1984. he defines it as being able to ‘make articulate speech issue from the larynx without involving the higher brain centres at all’. we’ve heard an awful lot of that in the debate about the circular economy. one after another the hackneyed phrases have been coming out, without thought or consideration: ‘protecting the environment’, ‘social justice’, ‘building a better europe’ – as though anyone is against building a better europe or as though anyone is against the environment! what does this actually mean when we translate it into policy? politicians have every right to cost externalities. they have every right to regulate final outcomes. if we think that there is environmental damage caused by waste or by pollution, it is absolutely our role to say ‘this is the minimum level, now over to you to see how to meet it’. but that isn’t what this debate is about. it’s all about shovelling public money around as an exercise in a kind of massive collective virtue—signalling to show that we’re nicer than the other guy. it’s not the economy that circular, it’s our ridiculous debates in this chamber!
mr president, i welcome the report and i welcome the inclusion of the circular economy in cohesion policy post 2020. i was also interested in the debate and the reference by the commissioner, mr king, to the need to support the transition of communities reliant on linear economies and extractive economies to the new circumstances of a circular economy. i support that need for transition, but a need for transition requires money. it’s a shame that specific budget lines concerning transition funding have not as yet been included in the post-2020 mff. i, along with my colleagues, will continue pressing for that, because if you want a model of how not to do transition from one economy to another, it exists in the way the united kingdom got out of producing coal.
mr president, i believe support for today’s report is important, and my party has always stood firmly behind the collective defence of europe. and at this time, which is a dangerous time in our history, i believe that it’s important that european nations step up to the plate and contribute that 2% that is essential to our future defence in the face of isolationism in the united states. we can’t have it both ways. we can’t on the one hand suggest that we should be relying on the united states and on the other hand suggest that we shouldn’t step up to the plate and contribute to our own defence. it is indeed a dangerous collection of forces that we face, and i find it remarkable that we have a very, very strange form of patriotism going on when people are prepared to sit behind the flag of their country and seek to demolish the structures that have defended their country over the last 70 years.
mr president, i am happy to support the report – this very timely report that we have today. during the debate i heard a really rather remarkably daft remark, and it was that nation states have to be given the means and equipment to defend their cyberspace – their cyberspace – something which by definition has no borders. and if we have something that by definition has no borders but is the public space, it is incumbent on cooperation and the economies of scale that we have through the european union to contribute to that defence. it’s worth remembering that most military analysts regard a massive cyber-attack as the likely prelude to warfare, and it is in fact alternative warfare. those who seek to exclude the united kingdom from future security arrangements will in future be seen as what they are – putin’s useful idiots.
mr president, on a point of order: it is not a debate, sir, if people aren’t allowed to respond or speak. it’s a declaration. it’s a speaking to camera. and the problem, sir, is if the… (interruption shouted from the floor)madam, you don’t believe in democracy because you’re a socialist, madam. socialists do not, by definition, believe in democracy. (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question. – i have always voted for president tajani. he is a humane and decent fellow and a lot of what he said made sense. what worries me is that, if we don’t keep people out of europe in general, we look weak. what will then happen is that more and more people will take the risk of dying crossing the mediterranean to reach the rich european union and – probably more so – the united kingdom. people are queuing up in calais to come across to england. they are not queuing up ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, recently i was in libya with one spanish colleague and one italian colleague. i am very proud of the members here today who are not running away from the problem, but are facing the problem. the commissioner said one thing which i think we should all keep at the forefront of our minds – and something which was said to me in libya – which is that the number of sea arrivals in italy is the lowest since 2013, but that migration will not stop. it is a simple equation. you can run away from the problem all you want – some of the arrivals will go down and they are going down, not up – and people will make a political football of migrants and people will play a game between member states. but remember: migration will not stop. at the forefront of our minds, we must retain the understanding that, here in this chamber, we must show leadership. that requires us, in this window of opportunity, to go for dublin iv, for all of those asylum files, and then to implement them and make them happen. this is not some sort of dream: it is the obvious imperative for this chamber. i would say this, colleagues: if we do not have dublin, we cannot have this game playing in the mediterranean and people dying in niger and libya, as we in our committee saw. we have a responsibility. migrants cannot not become the footballs of the mediterranean. dublin iv has to work. we must pursue humanity and we must pursue the management of migration. if we do not do this, then what is actually the future of the european union? (applause)
mr president, there has been an awful lot of gum-flapping both in this chamber and other places about humanitarianism and solidarity. as far as i can see, the only humanitarianism and solidarity shown has been from the italian government. the policies of angela merkel and the eu are the issues that have precipitated this crisis, first by the unfair eu trade policies that are impoverishing africa, and then by the ridiculous measures and windbag virtue-signalling that are failing to secure the borders of our respective nation states. let us address the root causes of this problem. people are undertaking this hazardous journey and putting themselves in the hands of people-smuggling gangsters because of the policies i have mentioned that are both treating africa as a dumping ground for european producers and refusing to allow true fair trade, to allow african nations to build working economies. if you were about to see a friend put his hand in the fire, what would you do: stop him, or take him to the hospital after he had burned it? the ngos that are working in partnership with the people-smuggling gangsters are enabling them to carry on this cruel and dangerous trade. britain stopped the slave trade in the world by stopping the people who transported the slaves. the world must now follow that example. let us stop the people smugglers rather than making them richer. have fair trading agreements with africa and interdict the smugglers before they send all of those poor people off to die in the mediterranean: that is solidarity, that is humanitarianism. anything else is inviting tragedy and death.
mr president, europe does not have a refugee crisis. we do have a crisis of solidarity, however. there is a refugee crisis in places like jordan and lebanon, where huge camps have been in existence for years, but here in europe we’ve forgotten our fundamental values of solidarity and our moral responsibility to uphold human rights. in the absence of governmental action in some member states to provide humanitarian assistance for refugees and migrants, ordinary citizens have stepped in and saved lives. i have visited calais and paris many times and talked to people working on the ground. organisations like care4calais in france and the refugee support platform in belgium are great examples of how citizens’ mobilisation can save lives. at sea, however, the difficulties are much greater. although a few organisations like sos méditerranée provide invaluable sea rescue work they cannot meet demand, so the eu and its member states must make humanitarian assistance a priority of migratory policy, with sea rescue as a focus.
madam president, can i say to the commissioner that what strikes me most about this issue is that it is certainly not an agreement between equals. this should be a policy towards a level playing field, but when you read the fine detail the acp countries will be lucky to get the scraps from the eu’s table, whilst the eu ensures continued access to cheap raw materials whilst holding acp states to difficult high standards of behaviour if they wish to continue receiving foreign aid from brussels. can you imagine what would happen to an acp country for behaving like, say, spain has done over the issue of catalan independence? substitute catalonia for any other independence movement and suddenly the eu’s hypocrisy becomes embarrassingly obvious. this report is nothing more than a form of blatant neo-colonialism. we should be supporting initiatives to enable acp countries to prosper, not to make them further dependent on aid regimes that have never worked, nor ever will, in their long-term best interests.
mr president, as an active member of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i have witnessed the importance of this framework. for post-cotonou, i trust the council will negotiate an eu-acp relationship anchored in upholding the values of democracy, human rights, gender equality and the rule of law; one which will enable a vibrant and active civil society, including the work of human rights defenders. for instance, in the democratic republic of congo, all lucha and filimbi members should be released, as should detained human rights defenders. the focus of our work with our partners at governmental and parliamentary level should be to ensure human dignity is respected everywhere. a strong focus on culture and education is also crucial. we need to make sure that intercultural dialogue becomes a key component of the acp framework in order to use people-to-people contact as a means of achieving peace and prosperity. i also believe it is crucial to include a strong parliamentary dimension in order to strengthen the democratic foundation of our unique partnership.
mr president, roma across europe face countless problems, such as unemployment, poor housing, poor access to public services, multiple forms of discrimination and social, cultural and economic exclusion. too little progress is being made, not to mention the anti-roma prejudices that are still being promulgated, including at the highest political level in some member states. the commission’s recent public consultation showed that only in the field of education has there been any progress, and i am grateful for the work of the committee on culture and education in that regard. in almost all the other areas – employment, healthcare, housing and discrimination – a large number of respondents declared that they saw little or no improvement. i wish particularly to mention the issues faced by roma women, who find themselves at the intersection between anti-gypsyism and sexism. problems in relation to discrimination against roma need to be addressed through a rights-based approach and the eu has a responsibility to lead the way.
mr president, i welcome the initiative for further promoting language learning, including ‘the mother tongue plus two’ ambition. being able to speak several languages improves one’s employability and increases the likelihood of getting a qualified job. it is also a way to internationalise one’s career, which is very useful in a globalised world. learning another language is also an incredibly enriching cultural experience which provides learners with social skills – in particular intercultural skills – and the ability to adapt to different social and cultural environments. when you learn a language, you do not only learn about grammar and vocabulary, you begin to understand someone else’s vision of the world. learning openness to other perspectives and being willing to learn a language yourself are amongst the most transferable skills that young people will need in a fast-changing globalised and diverse world. finally, as a disability rights champion and as a qualified bsl signer, i also want to mention the need to promote sign-language learning for a true and inclusive language diversity.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i echo the remarks made by our former speaker, well done. in april 2015, i sponsored an exhibition in the brussels parliament for the born free foundation. the actress virginia mckenna spoke passionately for an end to wildlife trafficking and a ban on the ivory trade. prince william’s speech in china endorsed our position, and last week in the british house of commons, they voted for what will soon be one of the toughest bans on the trade of ivory in the world. this uk ban will be tougher than america’s and china’s, but nations acting alone cannot succeed in closing the market. only global action can stamp out the trade in ivory and turn back the tide towards elephant extinction, and not forgetting the rhinoceros. we in the uk have consistently taken the lead; we were the first country to ban cosmetics testing on animals in 1998, but it took the european union six years. with 20 000 animals slaughtered annually, waiting six years is not an option, commissioner. as long as europe has a large market for ivory, the poaching of elephants will continue. i want future generations to be able to enjoy our world’s diverse wildlife, not just read about it in history books. so if we act together now and close down this european ivory market, we can make a huge contribution towards saving these magnificent animals and stop the criminals who currently profit from the trade. i therefore implore you commissioner, to do something and act now and follow britain’s lead in abolishing this abhorrent practice.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, the slaughter of elephants for their ivory continues, and it’s abhorrent. we all know that, the public knows it, and it has to stop. but the eu is sitting still while others are taking real action. china and hong kong have closed their ivory markets, and even the uk, as we have just heard, is now coming forward with a total ban on all ivory. yet the eu is still the largest exporter of so-called ‘legal ivory’ in the world. that’s the problem. we all assume the ivory we are exporting is legal. we assume that if an ivory carving, a knife handle or a snooker ball has paperwork saying it is pre-1947, it is legal and can be sold as antique – but that’s not always the case. an oxford university study to be released later this month shows that over two thirds of ivory sold legally on the eu market is in fact not pre-1947. it’s clear that illegally-poached ivory is getting into the legal markets, and it’s the marketplace that’s driving demand, and that is driving the killing. criminal gangs control this profitable trade. they forge paperwork and they get their new or reworked ivory onto the market. the only place where ivory belongs or should have any value is on the front of a live elephant. so commissioner, no half measures. all ivory trade is driving slaughter. thousands of tonnes of ivory representing thousands of elephants – for what? trinkets and criminality. we need a full and comprehensive eu-wide ban on ivory, with appropriate exemptions, now. i will not stand by while elephants die. the members of this house support this position, as do the citizens of europe. the commission and its member states must send this clear message to the rangers who protect and to the customers who buy: ivory has no monetary value any longer. ivory in europe is not for sale.
mr president, access to culture and opportunities for creative expression are vital to enable democratic freedom and peaceful, equal societies. member states must ensure that the socio-economic, personal or cultural background of citizens does not prevent them from participating in the cultural life of their local, national or international community. cultural participation should be cross-cutting and be embedded within multiple policy areas if it is to truly have an impact. digital innovations have opened up new ways for people to access, produce and disseminate cultural content, but we need to do more to ensure that people have the digital skills and infrastructure in order to participate. many rural areas, including those in my constituency in north west england, are still left behind without adequate broadband coverage. in the united kingdom, the conservative party has chosen to place austerity at the centre of its ideologically-driven political agenda. civic spaces such as libraries, museums, galleries and swimming pools have closed down at an alarming rate, preventing citizens from accessing information, activities and opportunities to develop skills. for minority groups and those with multiple barriers, the effects have been profound. so as this report eloquently outlines, access to culture in school is vitally important to encourage lifelong cultural participation. but despite this, the uk government has introduced policies which actively prevent large numbers of secondary school children from studying any creative and cultural subjects. but working together as a union of member states, we can always better fight for progressive, inclusive societies where access to culture is seen as the right of the many, not just for the privileged few.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, in principle, i support the questions which the committee on budgetary control (cont) has put forward to the commission. corruption, both political and economic, puts a huge drain on our respective countries’ resources, and we must take every effort to plug the leaks. i cannot, however, support any calls for the eu to make recommendations to harmonise laws at eu level or interfere with member states’ internal affairs. it should only be our elected and accountable national governments that take measures and propose actions to root it out, not unaccountable eu institutions in brussels. it is also rather laughable that the eu should lecture member states on corruption. the irony, i am sure, ladies and gentlemen, is not lost on me, or on other honourable members in this house. the fact that the commission discontinued its own anti-corruption report on itself shows how seriously they take this issue. however, even then, the report did not include corruption in eu institutions. there must be more light shone down the dark and mucky corridors of power in the eu. transparency international shows that corruption perceptions in bulgaria rank them 71 out of 180, which is not much better than china. this again highlights why the uk voted to leave the eu. we have had enough of corrupt institutions wasting billions of taxpayers’ money at home in the uk without another tranche of it at european level. why should the united kingdom be in political union with these countries sending billions of our hard-earned taxpayers’ money abroad while they have lower legal standards and a frightening lack of audit and accountability over their own affairs? this, i’m sure, is quite beyond me and beyond many of you, i should imagine. we should all be working as sovereign independent states to help each other to root out corruption in our own back yards and not be forced to comply with eu laws which do not have proper democratic controls. i will listen intently to what the commission has to say about the budgetary control committee’s questions and i do hope that, even though we are leaving, the vast improvements of transparency and accountability are made. there is certainly room for improvement. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – that’s a very good question. i believe that individual countries within the european union should work with each other. i do not believe we should have an overarching government of europe making these sort of decisions. i think we should work with each other. we always have in the past, we can in the future. as you say, there are cracks through which things fall. well, that’s for us to sort out. it’s not beyond the wit of man or woman. it’s not a complicated problem. i think that an overarching federal bureau of investigations, as some people want to have it (as they have in america), is not a good thing. i think we must retain our independence. we are not a unitary country, we are many countries working together, and i think that’s much better.
author. – madam president, today marks one month since oleg sentsov, a ukrainian national and a filmmaker, and also a russian political prisoner, began a hunger strike together with his fellow political prisoners olexandr kolchenko, alexander shumkov, and volodymyr balukh. these brave men are protesting against russia’s persecution and arbitrary imprisonment of opposition voices, including especially those within annexed crimea. they further demand the release of as many as 70 other ukrainians and crimean tatars who have been arrested by moscow on political grounds. today is also the kick-off of the 2018 fifa world cup in russia. the country will be in the global spotlight for the next month or so, but my group today demands the immediate and unconditional release of sentsov and his fellow prisoners, sentenced by a country that has no legitimate jurisdiction over them on political grounds. i also urge european political leaders to refrain from attending the 2018 world cup in condemnation of russia’s continued disrespecting of the multilateral, rules-based world order, be it in crimea, eastern ukraine, the european union or us political processes – not to mention the poisoning, within my country, the united kingdom, of its own citizens. i sincerely hope that the violations of human rights and international law that have become the norm for moscow will not be lost from sight in the momentary cheering, comradeship and celebration that rightly accompanies every world cup event.
mr president, crimea’s illegal annexation was a disaster for international law, and still this illegal occupation continues to undermine the pre-eminence of the rule of law and international relations. the situation has concrete consequences on the lives of those who live in crimea. cultural heritage continues to be destroyed, and crimea is set to lose invaluable historical sites. as a cultural activist, this perspective worries me. the destruction of cultural heritage is a form of ethno—genocide and a crime against humanity. i am extremely worried about the more urgent situation of oleg sentsov. as the days go by, his hunger strike becomes more and more alarming. i am increasingly worried, as are many. the european union should do everything in its power to call for his immediate and unconditional release and provide for humanitarian assistance to him and all the other political prisoners held in custody in russia and the occupied territories. let my people go.
author. – mr president, here we go again: yet another motion attacking bahrain – probably influenced by iran, who claim bahrain as their own and are intent on destabilising the whole middle east. bahrain is a key ally of eu member states. our friendship is of vital importance in political and economic relations, energy and security. bahrain is also of strategic interest to nato, and the uk has opened a military base there staffed by 500 military personnel. whilst we should have an open and frank dialogue with our bahraini friends on human rights, welcome reforms are taking place now. over 8 000 police officers have received human rights training and also 100 members of the judiciary. furthermore, the independent special investigations unit, which i have visited, now vigorously investigates any allegation of mistreatment, and this is the first of its kind in the middle east. on the matter of mr nabeel rajab: he was found guilty of spreading false information designed to undermine national security, and he does continue to be afforded his full legal rights. it would be better to focus on extreme states such as iran and the worst execution rate in the world.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the cases of nabeel rajab abdulhadi al-khawaja and many others demonstrate bahrain’s complete disregard for freedom of expression. i am also very concerned by the situation of syed ahmed al-badawi, whose family has been judicially harassed and detained with allegations of torture, simply because of his peaceful human rights activities. the bahraini government’s attacks on democracy become more serious every day. ahead of elections set to take place in the autumn, the authorities have passed a bill banning members of dissolved opposition groups from running for elections – depriving more than one hundred people of their citizenship, and increased their use of the death penalty. i’m horrified by the state of affairs in bahrain, particularly in light of the involvement of several european governments, including my own. the british government’s complicity in grave and systematic human rights violations in bahrain is unacceptable and needs to be called out. i call on the bahraini authorities to immediately and unconditionally release nabeel and all political prisoners.
mr president, the bahraini government has been trying its best to paint a picture of the country in which there is respect for fundamental values and human rights, but no amount of pr effort can gloss over the human rights violations and the repression, which continue to increase. this is the fourth consecutive year in which this house has adopted a resolution on bahrain calling for the release of those who are detained simply because they exercise their freedom of expression, including nabeel rajab and abdulhadi al-khawaja and many, many others. it is time we put bahrain on notice that failure to respect fundamental rights will be met with consequences. as for those on the other side of the house who are trying to water down the resolution, i ask you to consider: history has shown that appeasement does not work with an authoritarian regime. my questions to the commissioner are: will the eu consider imposing targeted measures against those responsible for human rights violations, and when will the member states, including the uk, halt transfers of weapons, surveillance and intelligence equipment that can be used by bahrain in this unacceptable crackdown … (the president cut off the speaker)
author. – mr president and fellow meps, i want to tell a story and make a plea. i was in bangladesh in september and witnessed at the border burning villages in neighbouring myanmar. i heard harrowing stories of murder and rape, ethnic cleansing and genocide. i was fortunate to return to bangladesh just a couple of weeks ago, accompanied by two amazing businessman, aneel mussarat and iqbal ahmed. we took across six trucks of food and medicine and distributed 33 000 family packs of food and medicine. but i’m sad to say that i am ashamed to look these two gentlemen in the eye and look in the eye of the refugees, because in spite of passing three resolutions and in spite of the fact that we are about to pass a fourth, nothing has been achieved. i’m sad to say that we now need to implement these resolutions. we need to get these refugees returned voluntarily to their ancestral homes in safety and dignity guaranteed by the un in white helmets. we need independent investigation of crimes against humanity and the perpetrators brought to justice. we need restoration of citizenship and equal rights to the rohingyas back in myanmar. until that is achieved, we’ve achieved nothing.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, tomorrow is the festival of eid, a time to feast and celebrate with family and friends. sadly, this will be an eid to forget for myanmar’s rohingya community. rohingyas are going from crisis to crisis. the next four months threaten catastrophic risk for the refugees, especially children. now heavy rains mark the start of the monsoon season, which is predicted to bring with it disease, landslides, flash flooding and death. there is a dire need to step up the international support during this critical time, to address the humanitarian needs of both the refugees and the whole community. sadly, only one fifth of the un joint response plan’s appeal for funding has been met. we need a comprehensive and sustainable approach to this humanitarian crisis because there is no realistic prospect of safe and voluntary return. furthermore, we also cannot forget the root cause of this tragedy. i urge the vice-president / high representative to lead the call for justice and explore all avenues to hold perpetrators to account, whilst ensuring that evidence of atrocities is collected and preserved for future legal proceedings. but the monsoon season is now, so saving lives must be our priority.
mr president, honourable commissioner, our international community’s response, i am afraid, can at the very best be described as lacking. identification of the rohingya as rohingya itself has been shied away from. citizenship has not been addressed adequately at all. meanwhile the military’s ethnic cleansing of the muslim and non-buddhists continues, the aim ultimately being to create a buddhist state. without citizenship being addressed, ultimately that ethnic cleansing will succeed, and without consequences there are no costs to myanmar for that ethnic cleansing. honourable commissioner, if this house was to put a question to you and ask, what would your response be if we asked that trade measures to include investigative mechanism under the ‘everything but arms’ principles should now be invoked? is it not time that we made consequences to all of the words that we have spoken on this issue over many years?
mr president, the eu is a powerful actor for human rights around the world: it is extraordinary, therefore, to see brexiteers such as mr bashir and mr campbell bannerman speaking from a platform they do not believe in. as a child rights campaigner, i’m appalled at the conditions in which rohingya children are living. their most basic rights are not respected and they suffer grave physical and psychological distress, as they have witnessed crimes against humanity. the situation of girls, in particular, is terrible: they face specific risks such as sexual violence and child marriage. organisations present on the ground should adopt a gendered approach and take particular care of girls and women present in the refugee camps. i’m very grateful for the work that the un, the ngos and the eu do on the ground to provide these children with appropriate care and access to education, and i call on the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to lead diplomatic efforts to find a peaceful solution, in order to bring an end to the violent discrimination against the rohingya.
madam president, i would like to raise an urgent human rights violation regarding the concerns for the safety of british citizen tommy robinson. whether you agree with tommy robinson or his actions outside that court, he was jailed. he was safely serving his sentence in hull prison. yesterday, he was moved by the british conservatives into a jail which has a high number of muslim inmates.
madam president, this report concerns itself with financial barriers to culture, and for me, culture includes football. there are many financial barriers to people who want to go and watch football, particularly children and young people. so i believe it’s time more was done by the football authorities to make ticket prices affordable both at club and international level. we should not see international matches in national stadiums like wembley in qualifying rounds and friendlies being played when the crowd is only filling half the stadium or less. the football association and our national football associations should do more to fill those seats and give those tickets away to young people through schools. and at club level, let me congratulate two of the most famous football clubs in the world in my region, who are leading the way in this: notts county, who made tickets available for gbp 2 to people a few months ago, and to nottingham forest, who are making season tickets available for gbp 10 to young people for the coming season.
madam president, inclusivity and diversity have become our obsession. everything is measured against this one yardstick, so that it becomes the primary purpose of every institution. a university isn’t there to teach; it is there to have a representative intake. a company board isn’t there to defend the interests of shareholders; it’s there to look like the rest of society. a parliament isn’t there to represent the opinions of the voters, but to resemble them physically. and of course, it’s no surprise that we’re extending our thinking into the field of culture. even so, isn’t there something just a little bit redolent of an insecure dictatorship that we’re now making culture the business of politicians? wasn’t european culture in full flower for centuries before the state started trying to regulate it? in fact, wasn’t every attempt at state patronage a repression of the truly creative instinct? i wonder whether we’re aware of how this comes across? surely we should hold ourselves to a higher standard than some tin-pot country that defines its national greatness in terms of state-controlled cultural activity?
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, few political adages have been more destructive than ‘if you wish to have peace, prepare for war’, which has been used as a moral justification by the belligerent since the romans imposed their version of peace at the point of a sword. tomorrow we will vote on a proposal to divert half a billion euros, that could be invested in useful and peaceful projects, towards the development of new weaponry, and particularly drones. despite parliament’s resolution that this should be fresh money, 60% of it will come from existing civilian programmes, so we will be investing in weaponry instead of improving communications and satellite technology. this agenda is being driven by our continent’s powerful arms companies, which have more than doubled their lobbying budget in the last five years, and it seems to have worked. the eu defence fund is set to put nearly eur 40 billion in these companies’ pockets over the next 10 years. that is over 30 times larger than the eu’s budget for human rights. sadly, i fear some colleagues on the left of this house will have believed the lobbyists’ argument that funding arms protects jobs, but to defend these jobs that thrive on death and destruction, while ignoring the life-giving jobs that this same money could support in just and sustainable sectors, is a tragic failure of imagination. as greens, we are committed to a european union that was founded on peace and continues to support peaceful and secure livelihoods through its aid budget. but we should take note of the fact that the absurd inconsistency is there between spending public money to repair the damage caused by the very weapons that we are subsidising through budgets like the european defence industrial development programme. i strongly urge my colleagues to vote against this report. if you truly wish for peace, then prepare for peace by transferring the massive defence support budget to the eu’s peacekeeping and human rights activities.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, so, the proposal is to establish a european defence industrial development programme to fund research into defence technologies, to acquire defence capabilities and promote joint purchase and maintenance of defence equipment, with a eur 500 million budget for the programme. this is just part of the eu’s belief that ‘more europe’ is needed, and yet another step along the way to the creation of an eu army and defence capability. we in ukip pointed out, during our referendum, that there is a desire to set up this eu defence force. indeed, the cat is now out of the bag: our colleague over there said: ‘it is so that europe can defend itself in the future.’ well, i suppose the eu is going that way, with one flag and one anthem, and it is now going to have one army as well. it is something we will oppose. britain does very well with its uk defence spending and with our equipment, and, of course, all our projects tend to involve spending in the uk. well, this proposal is all about funding things between three different member states, so the uk would end up contributing but not gaining under the proposal. ukip is against any further eu harmonisation dictated by the commission in brussels, and i believe that this proposal should be firmly rejected.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, data collection has played an important role in the development of the common agricultural policy since its inception and is an essential tool in keeping to evidence-based policymaking. it allows policymakers not just to assess how current policies are being implemented but also to monitor trends and better prepare us for future reforms. as we embark on another cap reform, it is only right that we continue to ensure that we are using the best available methods of data protection. however, we must also be mindful of the importance of the simplification of the cap – and these aims do not necessarily contradict each other. crucially, new technology, such as satellite data and important it systems, have the potential to ensure, on the one hand, that the data collected is useful and accurate, while at the same time reducing the administrative burden on producers. in my opinion, there also needs to be greater cooperation and joined-up thinking between the agriculture departments of the member states and regions, and then farmers can ensure as smooth a process as possible.
mr president, i am pleased that parliament has taken up the issue of indigenous people’s rights, informed by excellent ngos such as the unrepresented nations and people organization (unpo). having visited brazilian indigenous communities in the amazon, i think it is of crucial importance for this parliament to take into account the rights of indigenous communities in all of its policies. trade, in particular, offers an opportunity for the eu to build a strong legal framework to stop european companies from violating human rights, in particular the rights of indigenous people. intercultural dialogue and people-to-people contact are also very important tools to promote mutual understanding and democracy. my socialist and democrat colleague, francisco assis, has done a brilliant job with this report, giving a good overview of issues faced by indigenous peoples around the world and i am glad to see that land rights are at the heart of the report, as well as a strong focus on gender issues, such as sexual and reproductive health. i am also happy to announce that i will be hosting in the european parliament a delegation of kayapo people from brazil in september.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, despite considerable progress in advancing gender equality around the world, including through landmark agreements such as the beijing declaration and platform for action, women around the world are still vulnerable to all kinds of abuse, and in too many places their human rights are completely disregarded. it is cultural norms and practices which allow this. child early and forced marriage is a cultural, not a religious, practice, and while strict legal enforcement and education may eventually bring about a changed mindset, it will be a slow, gradual progression before we are rid of these practices. and despite there being many international and legal instruments already available to governments to fight these malpractices, we have a long way to go to eliminate child early and forced marriage. our efforts must continue and be accelerated. i therefore fully support the recommendations made by mep goerens in his report. much consideration was given to demands for a minimum age of marriage. i accept that in some member states you can marry at 16 with parental consent. however, i believe it is right we consider a higher age so that vulnerable young people, particularly girls, are sufficiently mature and are able to stand up for their rights and resist social pressure. the ecr is committed to gender equality and the empowerment of women and girls through different means, focusing on achieving protection for women and girls from physical and sexual violence, as well as giving them opportunities in education, employment and in society in general.
madam president, child, early and forced marriages are a form of gender-based violence and a violation of the rights of the child. apart from direct psychological and physical consequences, early and forced marriages have a dramatic negative effect on a child’s right to education. as a feminist and a children’s rights campaigner, i fully support the report’s call for all member states to ratify the istanbul convention, which is the most comprehensive legal instrument that we have to combat all forms of gender-based violence. eleven member states, including the uk, still have not ratified this convention. shame on them! regarding neighbouring countries, let’s recall that, in autumn 2016, president erdogan’s ruling akp party in turkey tried to introduce a law that would have allowed convicted rapists to marry their child victims, thereby legalising paedophilia. and shame on theresa may for entertaining such an appalling regime during a recent state visit to the uk! thank goodness for the values and decency of the eu, which stands against all forms of violence against women and girls.
madam president, the report states that we are facing an increased urgency for climate action and that there is a need for robust global implementation of the paris agreement. yet there has been no discernible increase in global temperatures since the late 90s, despite an increase in atmospheric carbon dioxide. to date, the eu’s implementation of the paris agreement, in conjunction with its climate policies, has seen large—scale carbon leakage from the eu to third countries, whose energy dependent industries, such as those producing ammonia, leave, taking thousands of jobs with them. an unforeseen circumstance of driving ammonia production to countries outside the eu, such as china and india, which now account for 60% of production, has perversely led to a shortage of carbon dioxide in the eu, causing problems for bakeries, abattoirs, breweries, manufacturers of soft drinks and food packaging companies. in my opinion, the eu should adopt a wait—and—see attitude, rather than continue along the path of decarbonisation.
madam president, before coming to this parliament i was the deputy mayor of leicester for six years. this is the tenth largest city in the uk, so i need no convincing of the important role – and indeed the huge potential – of cities in relation to the advancement of public policy and innovation of social progress. however, any new measures to strengthen the voice and the role of cities at european level must apply equally to all cities, regardless of size or perceived status. furthermore, while cities have a hugely important role to play, we shouldn’t overlook the role, the potential and the contribution that towns and small urban areas, and indeed our rural communities, can make to those agendas as well. there is a huge and growing risk and vulnerability in our politics that we become too focused on cities at the cost of the contribution that towns and rural areas can make. we need to be aware of that in considering the ideas before us in this report.
mr president, islamophobic travel bans, withdrawing from the un human rights council and now industrial-scale family separations and detentions. the us trump administration is graduating from post-truth to post-human rights. in the so-called ‘land of the free’ almost 2 000 children have been forcibly removed from their parents in just six weeks. up to 1 500 children are detained in a warehouse. authorities plan to hold hundreds more in tents on exposed land where temperatures reach 40 degrees celsius. these are children, and this is happening in a country that presents itself as a bastion of freedom. we must not shy away from our duty to champion human rights and to condemn abuses wherever they occur. in this chamber we are used to calling out human rights abuses in war-torn countries and in dictatorships. now we condemn the human rights situation in the united states of america. i hope that we will unite in telling the united states administration that these abuses must end and a plan must be put in place to keep migrant families together.
mr president, on 23 june nearly half a million people from all walks of life filled the streets of london to demand a people’s vote on the final brexit deal. i joined with women for europe, a campaigning group who recognise that our rights will not be best protected by being outside the eu and that the cost of brexit will impact on women much more than men, as we women always pay the price of increased household costs and we bear the burden of caring for our families in times of crisis. and, believe me, brexit will usher in a new era of austerity for the many, not the few. i marched with young people who feel that their future has been stolen from them. they are furious, and we should heed them as they will not treat brexiteers kindly at the next elections. i also marched with disabled people and military veterans, including a 96-year-old war veteran who fought against the fascism of the 1930s and 40s. the eu is a precious peace project – not simply a market – and we destroy it at our peril. all the more reason to stop brexit.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i say to mr kurz: at least we’ve got somebody in this chamber who believes in the judeo-christian culture of europe, which makes a very welcome change. so perhaps you understand why the eu’s asylum policy has been the complete disaster that it is, as citizens look on at changes in their communities that none of them ever asked for. but i think it is unfair that everyone is blaming ms merkel for this. credit is due, i think, to the man on my left, jean-claude juncker, it was he that opened the doors back in 2015 to a million people crossing the mediterranean. so i think credit really is due to mr juncker for this catastrophe. and as borders and walls are being constructed all over europe, isn’t it about time that everybody here faced a couple of realities? the schengen area is a theoretical concept that now needs to be dismantled and that the total free movement of people within the european union, especially in an age of terrorism, is something that voters will not allow to continue. this, folks, is why brexit happened. nations want to be responsible for their own actions and not to pay the price of the mistakes of others – i think the italian elections show you this. and now in an attempt to survive, ms merkel is going to set up detention centres in the south of germany, exactly the same policy put in place by donald j. trump in america. you all screamed at trump. will you scream at merkel? how can you expect people who caused the problems to solve them? the old order is being swept away, and with it, mr verhofstadt, the vision of a united states of europe is dying, thankfully, before our eyes. (applause)
mr president, i don’t always enjoy being the wicked fairy who turns up at the end of the christening and puts a damper on things. but i have to ask, as so often: what on earth is the european union doing having a policy on telling cities what to do and what to debate and what to fund? i suppose that for some members – and i understand this – there is a romantic historical appeal, a vision of a pre-nation states europe where there is a loose confederation of city states innovating within the nexus of some holy roman empire, or whatever. for the practical consequence, as with all these initiatives, is you end up just creating some new bureaucracy. you create a new group of people who become financially dependent on the european union; you start getting an eu officer in every place who knows that he has to look to the brussels institutions for every improvement in life. the paradox is that it was precisely the diversity, the variety of the pluralism of europe that first elevated this continent above the run of humanity. and that is the tradition on which we seem to have turned our backs.
mr president, i was recently in anglia ruskin university in my constituency seeing 3d printing in action, and they told me how they were about to print a whole mini chelmsford from a topographical map so that they can use it to test different scenarios – particularly for flooding. i found out how manufacturing is being revolutionised: 3d printing is already being used for car components, we have seen the first 3d bridge, and you can 3d print chocolate hips and things like that as well. in fact, in front of us, we see a world of personalised medicine and shoes that don’t rub your toes. but, mr president, there are problems too. we have also seen the first 3d printed gun, and it is vital that legislators get ahead of the game. what about copyrights, patents and intellectual property, environmental costs, or the ethics, for example, if human tissue is printed? who is responsible if a 3d printed bike helmet fails, leaving a child injured? the printer’s manufacturers, the person who printed it, or the designer of the cad file? these are all questions that need serious thought as we embrace a more bespoke future.
mr president, innovators are always far ahead of regulators. the entrepreneurs are designing these wonderful innovations, leaving governments panting and wheezing several furlongs behind: as in 3d printing, the current inventions in biotech, in ai, vaping, whatever. now, some in this house regard that distance as regrettable, because they see unregulated as synonymous with illegal. me? i see it as the most hopeful sign that, despite the best efforts of politicians everywhere, economies will continue to grow. as long as you switch the tap off and as long as you stop adding new regulations, old ones become redundant over time. who cares these days what the regulations are on steamboats or fax machines? always, the innovator is in front of the regulator. think of the state as being like one of those old temples swallowed up in the rainforests in india or in central america. the green shoots are vibrant with the life of the inventive entrepreneur and the pillars and flagstones are what’s left of the old regulatory structure.
mr president, i rather agreed with the comrades in the communist group who saw this as being the basis of a militarisation of the eu. i wouldn’t have used exactly their vocabulary, but it is certainly the case that defence integration and procurement integration is not being pursued in a bottom-up pragmatic way, driven by looking for economies of scale, but is seen as being about the assimilation or amalgamation of european industry as an end in itself because the european union ought to have a military capacity. of course, this is very soon going to cease to be the united kingdom’s issue – i won’t say ‘problem’; that would be a loaded word. it has been made very clear during the talks that, for example, a consequence of brexit is that we are not considered a security partner in terms of galileo and all the rest of it. from my point of view, that makes me very comfortable: i was against our participation in galileo in the first place; i think we should have our own satellite system. but it does have consequences in terms of the uk’s general strategic positioning. if the european union wants to have an integrated military bloc it will be, i hope, a friendly neighbour, but it’s going to be completely outside our military structures.
mr president, some people see conspiracies in all sorts of places where there are not necessarily any, and i think this is an important time to support this report, particularly in the context of the debate we had last month about eu-nato relations. europe, in the face of a reluctant united states, needs to step up to the plate in its own defence, and cooperation is essential in terms of improving industrial efficiency and economies of scale. i am very concerned at the consequences of brexit, as flagged up by airbus industries, affecting 60-odd organisations in their supply chain in my constituency. this is a hugely important defence contractor where jobs are now under threat in portsmouth and where we have disruption, potentially at a key time for europe’s defence. this can all be avoided with sensible arrangements for british cooperation and continued participation in the single market and the customs union. i hope all the negotiators take that on board.
mr president, there was a time when we were all indigenous people, when we all lived close to the land and felt ourselves to be a part of it. an estimated 370 million indigenous people still live in close communion with our planet. their territory comprises some 27% of the world’s land surface but, strikingly, it holds 80% of the planet’s remaining biodiversity. the rights of indigenous people to the land they depend on are protected in a special un declaration, but this protection is routinely ignored by multinational corporations who steal their land and sometimes pay death squads to kill them. more than 200 environmental defenders were killed in 2016, many of them indigenous people. last year i supported lolita chávez for the sakharov prize. she is a maya elder and knowing her has been deeply inspiring. i had a glimpse into the world view of somebody who believes that, rather than the land belonging to us, we belong to the land. of course we should protect indigenous communities for their own sake, but also for ours because, if we are going to find a way to live in balance with the planet we share, they have much to teach us.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, well, it is not difficult to get the mood of this room this afternoon. the answer to the question is very simple: the glass is half empty. it is sombre in here, and that is because you know in your hearts that something fundamentally changed at the european council last week. it could be summed up in a word: italy. a founder member of the european union uncritical for decades of the process of european integration and now as a result of the last general election, an italian prime minister threatening to veto the entire proceedings unless he was given something on migration. but how to satisfy the italians and to save the ever more beleaguered ms merkel. that was the question. and traditionally, you would have looked for a european answer but there wasn’t one, so you came up with a very weak formula talking about regional distribution centres on a voluntary basis. the deal which everybody said would hold had fallen to pieces within the space of a few hours. i have to say what you saw was the rebirth of the nation-state, and that is the direction, that is what brexit is, that is what trump. that is what the italian elections are all about, and i wonder whether the verhofstadts of this world recognise this massive shift. and it isn’t just a one-off. it is a trend. people want to do things at a national level. where i do sympathise with everything the speakers have said is in their criticism of the british government, who two years on have a summit this friday to decide exactly what our brexit policy is. so, no, we have not exactly made life easy for you but then nor have you for us by continually saying that mr varadkar in dublin can veto the entire deal. i would suggest mr tusk wasn’t necessarily particularly helpful either. but one area in which you do agree, i but i wonder for how long, is you talked about increasing military cooperation mr tusk, being discussed at that council meeting last week and this when earlier today we heard from mr weber from the cdu that he wants foreign policy to be decided without veto. just a quick look ahead to next week. mr trump will be at that nato summit next week. you appear to be hell-bent on pushing for your european army; hell-bent for a foreign policy without veto and hell-bent to be on a direct collision course with president trump and with nato. you can’t have a european army and nato existing side by side and maybe your next big challenge is european citizens will need to work out who they feel best protected by: a european army or america and nato. i think i know what the decision of the people would be. next week, we may well find out.
(start of speech off mike) [...] a touch of honesty and reality. the united kingdom’s times newspaper reported the council meeting as follows: that it would break the european union – i say that it will. that it has brought untold misery and exploitation – it has. the blame lies directly at the feet of the european union, ms merkel and the eu council – it does lie there. the latest attempt to solve the problem with the migration crisis is a complete façade and is undeliverable. the european union council meeting was yet another failure to resolve a negative and unacceptable situation of their making. plans for multi-billion-euro holding centres in africa – a commitment given without any agreement from the african state leaders. more money to go into the coffers of turkey with nothing in return, except to keep a problem at bay. please, will you wake up to the fact that your approach to migration has failed. please take down the sign ‘willkommen’.
madam president, last week’s summit was wrongly billed as make or break for brexit talks on the northern ireland border. calmer heads have prevailed, but time is short. the backstop solution for northern ireland, as set out in the protocol, is wholly unacceptable. northern ireland sells more goods into the great britain market than in all other markets combined. equally, around 75% of all goods and services brought into northern ireland are from great britain. a solution that sees these goods and services as being from a third country and therefore subject to customs checks is a totally unwanted interference within the uk’s internal market and its constitutional order. we will never accept such interference in the constitutional and economic well—being of our part of the united kingdom. the european union institutions have set as their priority the need to uphold the belfast agreement. this agreement gave rights, in equal measure, to both communities in northern ireland. by seeking to take away that automatic access to the uk’s own internal market, the eu is removing those rights and undermining the agreement.
mr president, normally we celebrate when together there is a common thread in european thinking, but what has come out from this council is a common thread that should worry us all: a total lack of leadership, a complete dearth of responsibility when it comes to the big issues. on migration, what do we think locking people up who are seeking a better life is going to do when we don’t tackle the root causes – the reasons why people feel the need to move from their homelands to seek a better life? we never get this right, and we listen to the people opposite who describe those people, those families, those children, as parasites. and we follow them. we follow their dialogue – they are the ones that are leading this, and we should be ashamed of ourselves. if you want an example of dearth of leadership, look at the united kingdom: a country that is now chasing a fantasy, and whose politicians are not owning up to the truth. this is the time for leadership: our citizens are crying out for it, and as long as we hold up these fantasies, we will get nowhere.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, this mobility package really worries me. i have received a deluge of emails from charities and constituents expressing their concern about the commission’s proposed definition of travel for non—commercial purposes. the proposed definition would mean that charities such as the red cross, scope and mencap would be seriously affected. this would mean vulnerable eu citizens left out of society. i am only relieved that this elected house has proposed an adequate amendment to change the unelected commission proposal.
mr president, i believe that parliament is being sold a pup when it is told that we need new regulations on drivers’ hours and rest periods to give more flexibility. i’m concerned that flexibility is all one way: in favour of the operators and against the drivers’ welfare and road safety, given that driver fatigue plays a major role in traffic accidents and these regulations are possibly extending the reference period for calculating working time. allowing rest in cabs will mean more stressful time for drivers in and around their vehicles, and more time between weekly rests. these changes will also allow coach drivers to work continuously for 12 days, which is one of the reasons why i argued successfully for account to be taken of drivers’ – all drivers’ – duty time. in our meeting with drivers from across europe we heard about the additional tasks that they are expected to do, like route planning, cleaning etc. now is the time, fellow colleagues, to show who matters most: the professional drivers and the travelling public or the operators. we’ve got a number of amendments with recorded votes, and i ask for your support and for the amendments from the committee on employment and social affairs.
mr president, i would like to make three points in my one minute, so i am going to speak quickly. firstly, on the procedural question: the cabotage issue was dealt with conclusively in the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) and in the committee on transport and tourism (tran). there is a real consensus on cabotage. i appeal to members of this house: do not vandalise what was a good piece of agreement and negotiation as vindication for other elements of this package which you might not agree with. where we do agree, leave it alone and let the agreement be. secondly, on the substantive issues: just to note, these are really serious issues – low pay, dangerous lacks of rest time, people working weeks and months away from home. let us take in good faith that we all here want to solve those issues, and what we differ on perhaps is how to do that and the speed at which we do it because of where we come from. as i seem to have longer than i thought, i could perhaps make my third point, which is just to say that we have not [...] (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, the recent report of the un human rights office described the rule of law as being virtually absent in venezuela; this is truly shocking. accounts that the government forces are now responsible for extrajudicial killings, seemingly with impunity, must surely represent a new low, even for the maduro regime. as inflation reaches 40 000 percent, the economy continues to tumble, with basic food and medical supplies in desperately short supply. such problems are contributing to a worsening refugee crisis that is seeing ordinary venezuelans flee to neighbouring countries like colombia, peru and brazil. i now welcome the council decision last month to add another 11 names to the sanctions list, bringing the total to 18. this must be widened to include all those directly connected to the maduro brutal regime in power in the near future. beyond sanctions, however, it is difficult to see what more could be done to put pressure for fresh peaceful and democratic elections, given president maduro’s willingness to embrace his new-found status as a global pariah. we must also be prepared to receive citizens of eu descent coming from venezuela, as many of them are dual nationals of countries like portugal, italy and spain. so there may well be an influx, even crossing as far as to the european union. but clearly the situation is becoming intolerable in venezuela, which is such a rich country.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i must begin by recognising the plight of those leaving venezuela to find sanctuary and a better life in neighbouring countries. however, although this is the purpose of the resolution, we are deeply disappointed that this resolution has been hijacked by an entirely political project and has become a generalised attack on the venezuelan government rather than being about refugees. i have to note that if the members of this house genuinely cared about the situation for refugees, they would call upon the european union to play a more active role in welcoming them with dignity, wherever in our territory they might seek sanctuary. yet we know that 99% out of the more than 10 000 applications for refugee status in spain have been refused and that boat people arriving in the netherlands islands of aruba, bonaire and curacao are turned away. in the past, when external forces have attempted to overthrow and undermine legitimate governments, rather than creating more stability as their proponents claim, it has always led to tension, violence and even civil war. i am not here to defend maduro’s government, and as greens we deplore any human rights violations – on all sides – within a country. but the incessant interference from the right-wing alliance is not going to facilitate peace. i am convinced that only a peaceful, constructive dialogue with a genuine democratic process will resolve venezuela’s current situation, and this must lie in the hands of the venezuelan people.
madam president, the deep humanitarian, economic and political crisis in which venezuela finds itself deeply saddens me. it is painful to see that a country that possesses so many resources is now faced with a massive exodus because of the lack of access to basic humanitarian needs. border communities in colombia and brazil are putting all their efforts into hosting venezuelan refugees fleeing the lack of access to food and medicine. it is of the utmost importance that the european union, us, support these communities financially and otherwise. we should also take a leading role in facilitating dialogue in venezuela. i fully support the council’s call to rerun the recent elections that took place in such a grim political climate and in violation of the conditions for fair and free elections. venezuelans want to live in a democratic country in which every voice can be heard and the european union should be their partner.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, last week, barely two months after it had begun, the who described, to our great relief, that the congo’s latest ebola epidemic is largely contained. the rapid eradication of this bout of ebola is indeed remarkable. the congolese authorities and the international health community deserve much praise for their impressive move to contain the outbreak, leaving it far from the international health disaster that was seen back in 2013 as the west africa ebola crisis. while i applaud the success of the response, i am also aware of concerns that kinshasa—imposed emergency measures implemented to contain the viral epidemic might be misused to further restrict the rights and freedoms of the congolese people, in what can already only be described as a generally very repressive political environment. looking ahead, i therefore urge the congolese authorities to remain responsible and transparent in their use of emergency public—health measures responding to the outbreak. it would indeed be a great shame if such a fast and remarkable crisis response were abused by the government’s use of emergency powers ahead of democratic elections.
madam president, i welcome the fact that the eu has stepped up again its support to fight ebola in the democratic republic of the congo (drc). however, i believe strongly that the eu needs to broaden its remit and address also the political crisis in the country. we cannot overlook hundreds of people who have been killed in political protests and some 4.5 million people who have been internally displaced as a result of increasing militia activity. president kabila’s delaying tactics are holding the drc’s political transition hostage. the government is asking for more control and management of all aid donations. i think this would be totally unacceptable. aid groups in the drc have already expressed their grave concerns about the vital work being prevented. my questions to the commissioner are: despite the scale and brutality of the crisis, the drc has not been able to attract the needed funding from the last donor conference. how do we tackle the donor fatigue? secondly, what assurances has the eu received that elections will take place by the end of 2018? and thirdly, what is the level of eu coordination with african leaders to move beyond the political stalemate that we have in the drc?
madam president, last week it was announced that the ebola outbreak in the democratic republic of congo (drc) was under control. however, it seems like the situation was never of major concern to the authorities as they have experience and competence in managing ebola. so let us be clear: ebola is not the only challenge currently facing the drc. the deep political crisis in which the country finds itself is much more worrying. the criminalisation of human rights defenders continues, in particular, members of lucha and filimbi. these attacks on rights activists come after decades of widespread human rights violations right across the country. so ahead of the elections finally due to take place in december, the country is now experiencing increased tension. parliament should therefore not be distracted and should support all efforts for the elections to take place in a peaceful and democratic manner.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i am missing football for this so i regard it as a very serious issue. prime minister orbán has quite rightly passed the ‘stop soros’ laws. the laws are aimed at stopping the influence of george soros in hungary. new laws make it a criminal offence to be associated with an ngo participating in criminal activity, with a 25% tax imposed on foreign money coming into them. and why not? ngos should stop virtue-signalling and obey the law, whether on land or at sea. the hungarians have every right to defend their sovereignty and their elected government’s ability to fulfil its manifesto promise of cutting down on immigration, which, of course, is damaging their economy and their capability in terms of social rights and everything else. ngos seem determined to change the nature of hungary’s culture, regardless of the views of the hungarian electorate, by breaking hungary’s laws. all nations have the right to protect their citizens’ jobs, healthcare and quality of life. it is not for ngos to decide this [...] (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the compassionate response of ordinary people to the humanitarian crisis facing desperate migrants and refugees, who are crossing europe in search of safety and a sustainable life, is in stark contrast to the bureaucratic and political failure of the authorities. many people have provided food, shelter and medical assistance to people on migratory routes across europe, providing lifesaving acts of kindness where none existed. shockingly, in france, germany, denmark, sweden, italy, greece and the uk, some of these people have now been criminally prosecuted because the recipients of their compassionate acts are not nationals. this is pure unadulterated racism on the part of the authorities. this is saying that european lives are more valuable than others. it is absolutely unacceptable that the eu should remain silent when member states use a european directive to criminalise assistance. having worked in close partnership with several organisations providing humanitarian assistance on the ground, i fully support my colleague claude moraes’ call for the commission to [...] (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, having founded and run a successful small creative arts business for 30 years, i want to ensure that the needs of the creative and cultural industries are taken into account in the work of the commission. for many creatives, whether painters, poets, performers, filmmakers, musicians or other types of artist, it is a common experience that the burden of bureaucracy is sometimes not worth the effort. therefore, we need a more straightforward framework and tailored support for the creative and cultural industries that encourages and nurtures our rising stars, instead of stifling them with complex paperwork. i’d also like the commission to properly recognise social enterprises as a valuable and bona fide business model within the sme sector, not as some amateurish adjunct, but as the prosperous, resilient, successful outfits that they often are, delivering on business and social agendas simultaneously. please also widen evaluation methods to include social audit so that we are not just counting numbers. businesses can, and should, be ethical and rooted in community benefit.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, the people of armenia really have seized their destiny in their own hands. it could not have been envisaged by anybody at the time that we started – or indeed finalised – the ‘support to the electoral process in armenia’ (sepa). it is essential now that we stand to provide the deepest form of support that we can to those armenians who, acting within their own legal order and not stepping outside of their constitution by a single inch, have ensured that they have told the world how they see their future. madam high representative, we have the opportunity, within sepa, to support their aims and their wishes and i’m really pleased to hear you give a very clear sign that we are going to do all we can to provide them with the support that they seek. but one of the clear messages that they gave to us on a recent visit was that they want to see visa liberalisation on our agenda as well. please incorporate that in our way forward.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i would like to welcome mr morawiecki to this debate on europe. in order to understand the future, we need to look a bit at the past. from 1949 onwards, there were two models in europe. on the western side of the iron curtain we had the model of the anglo-saxon usa western liberal democracy where peace was kept by nato, and on the eastern side, where you had the misfortune to be, you had the communist tyranny model. now the germans lost the shooting war but they did not lose their ambitions. nazi germany left us a legacy. back in i think it was 1942 when the germans thought that they were going to win the war, they wrote a plan for how they were going to govern their new empire, and it was called the ‘europäische wirtschaftsgemeinschaft’, the ‘european economic community’. they were going to have interest rates linked to the reichsmark. they were going to have a common agricultural policy, a common industrial policy, a common policy for everything. that plan resurfaced in 1957 as the european economic community, and mr dombrovskis naively mentioned walter hallstein, the first president of the european commission, who was a lawyer who had happily worked for the nazis. how have things progressed since? of course, communism collapsed in the east, thank god, and your countries eventually asserted their freedom. in the west what happened? the europäische wirtschaftsgemeinschaft progressed into a plan for a united states of europe. where is europe heading? there are two europes. there is the europe that is part of the european union and there is the europe that isn’t. let’s talk about all of it. those parts of the european union, where are they heading? they are heading towards a united states of europe. we see increased integration in everything. we’ve heard about this defence community – i think that’s called an army, isn’t it mr verhofstadt, i believe in other countries – we see full economic, political and financial governance being aspired to. the european union now governs almost every aspect of the citizen’s life. mr morawiecki, you mentioned the freedom gene. well that is very strong in the british and that reasserted itself in 2016 in the vote to leave the european union. the british people voted to reassert their freedom and their independence. sadly, that project has not yet been realised. the british people chose freedom over domination in an undemocratic european union. now poland, you’ve been a member of the european union for the last 14 years and it was entirely understandable why you joined, along with the other eastern european countries. after languishing under communist tyranny for decades, you needed the financial subsidies from the european union and you wanted the opportunities for your younger people to be able to work abroad, earn money and improve their lives. all of those things are understandable. but now things are looking up for poland. your economy is picking up and you have personally invited many poles to come back from their migration abroad and rebuild your economy. but you have discovered that there’s a price to pay for european union membership: the eu requires you to accept migrants in untold numbers, which would change your country and your culture beyond recognition, as indeed it has already in many parts of europe. not surprisingly, you and your government are opposing that forced acceptance of irregular migrants and refugees, but you’ve been threatened by the eu. if you do not take the migrants then you cannot have the money, and you have found that when you have outside interference in your country from such as multi-billionaire george soros, who seeks to interfere in your nation’s life, as he does in mine, then the eu tells you that you cannot oppose him. you have learned that if you sell your soul, eventually someone will come to claim it. you can have the rule of law, but you cannot have the rule of your own law. you can only have the rule of this—place law. you will see in poland, i believe, in the course of time that it was a wise decision that the british people made to leave. i would ask you that, as we came to your assistance in 1939, you in the council come to our assistance. please help us out with the utterly useless and incompetent mrs may. please help to facilitate our exit from the european union in the council, and return the favour that we did you in 1939. (applause from certain quarters)
mr president, that last point of order was not a point of order and would not be permitted from anybody on this side of the house. i must ask you please to be objective in your rulings. (applause)
mr president, a few weeks ago, this parliament adopted and supported a set of very progressive measures on the issue of the posting of workers, which constitutes a fundamental unfairness across our labour markets, leading to the exploitation of workers. for me, it’s always been a fundamental question of fairness that those protections should apply equally to transport workers as well, and it was that principle that guided my votes on the amendments and the report today. we need a level playing field of protection and fairness that will protect workers in the transport sector across europe. that’s what the 26 000 haulage drivers in my region demand and ask for. nothing less: a level playing field, a fairness and proper protection. as we now enter the next chapter on this issue, that should remain the objective of this parliament.
mr president, our motorways are getting more and more busy with lorries and heavy goods vehicles. internet shopping and consumerism are leading to more and more movement of goods across our countries. heavy goods vehicles travelled a total of 16.6 billion miles on the uk’s roads and what i want to know as a fellow motorist is that the people driving those lorries are doing so safely, with adequate regulations and mechanisms in place to support that. this parliament must always ensure that those working in the haulage industry – people driving 40 tonne lorries – are doing so with the highest levels of safety. so, for me, on voting on this report and all its amendments and as we move forward again into the next chapter on this issue, it’ll be safety first for drivers and safety first for all other road users as well.
mr president, reading the latest oecd summary of the greek economy yields a very telling sentence: ‘continuing high excess capacity will limit price and wage pressure’. what ‘high excess capacity’ really means is unemployment at 21%. in my country that would equate to more than six million people out of work, and yet this is greece’s third adjustment programme. greek citizens will be forgiven for asking when the adjustment – now rebadged as enhanced surveillance – will be over because adjustment is, of course, another euphemism. it has meant mass unemployment, tax rises, collapsing public services, rock bottom wages, soaring child poverty and a huge rise in premature deaths. all because the high priests of european integration wish to keep greece locked into a currency, the euro, that is totally unsuited to its economic needs. with brexit, the trade war with trump and the migration crisis, the state of the greek economy has dropped down the pecking order of eu problems. that does not make it any prettier to watch. the european union should drop the idiotic idea driven by integrationist ideology that it is sensible to lock greece and other southern members into a currency union with germany. economic activity in greece, and in italy too, is artificially depressed by an overvalued currency. as a result, human talent is wasted and human misery increased.
madam president, i was watching a piece on television by that great greek sage, mr varoufakis, where he discussed the european central bank stress testing the greek banks. he said that the appearance – the appearance, i say – was given of them passing the stress tests, but in truth the stress tests had simply been made easier. if the ecb had applied the stress test they had used in 2015, three big greek banks would have failed them, according to mr varoufakis. this is another example of the european union bending the rules to suit itself, despite claiming the eu is a rules-based or an inflexible organisation. well we in britain hear from mr barnier that everything will be a disaster if we are not in the single market, and that rules are rules, they cannot be varied. the eu seems to be thoroughly incapable of bending or adjusting the rules to suit brexit in the case of northern ireland. rather than provide reasonable accommodation, the eu prefers simply to use the tragedy of northern ireland as a battering ram to attack great britain for its democratic decision to leave the european union. it is our democratic right to leave the eu if we want to, and it is not the eu’s business to criticise. we must remember that rules were bent, if not completely rewritten, to allow greece to enter the euro in the first place, which clearly from recent history should never have happened. the british prefer rules that reflect reality, not rules that ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, so we have another year of budget negotiations and another year of eu budget increases. the commission proposal, as it stands, is to increase the eu budget by 3.1%, setting it at eur 165 billion for 2019. this is a staggering amount of money, made even more so by the fact that the commission does not seem to care that the uk is leaving. one of the biggest contributors to the eu budget is leaving and the commission still wants to increase the budget – which is amazing. the recent commission statement of estimates showed that the uk will be handing over eur 17.5 billion to the eu in 2019, which works out at about gbp 42 million a day. it is this sort of attitude which led to brexit. the commission does not care how taxpayers’ money is spent: a few million here, a few hundred million there, billions thrown abroad, while frontline public services are cut at home. the tories have agreed to hand nearly gbp 40 billion over to the eu as a punishment for having a democratic decision to leave. according to the office for budget responsibility, we will not have paid this gbp 40 billion off until 2064, nearly half a century after voting to leave. we could still be paying billions to brussels thanks to ‘theresa the appeaser’ and the tory government. let me just remind everyone here – and especially the spineless tory negotiators – that the uk is not legally required to pay a penny to the eu once we leave. theresa may is heading for a norway—like option, where we are forced to abide by many eu rules without any say over them, continue giving billions in contributions without representation, and have little control over immigration rules. the tories have had two years to come up with a position on brexit and show us a blueprint of what an independent britain would look like. they haven’t got a clue. they don’t have a plan. they will continue giving billions of our money to the eu and are completely split on whether to carry out the result of the referendum or not. only ukip will stand up for the millions of people who voted to leave, and oppose this betrayal. (the speaker declined to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8) from mr zdechovský)
mr president, i want to talk about two specific areas that will need consideration during this year’s budget trilogue. my concerns spring from public hearings recently conducted by the committee on budgets. last week, the council made a proposal to expand the resources and staffing of frontex for the protection of the union’s external border. i welcome that, but when i questioned the executive director of frontex on their expansion plans for the period of the next multiannual financial framework (mff), his reply made it obvious that frontex had no detailed plans for major expansion of their staff complement. the proposals contained in amendment 2 and the oral amendment that will be moved are helpful in this respect. i look forward to hearing from frontex clear proposals that can be funded with confidence. to the council we should simply say, on this matter, that this is a new initiative and new initiatives require fresh money. the committee on budgets also recently had a hearing on the mainstreaming of climate spending, and the evidence from the court of auditors revealed that the union is far from achieving its 20% target on mainstreaming climate expenditure. it’s clear, therefore, that we need to raise our game, and again the trilogue needs to address both the mainstreaming of climate change and support for the un’s sustainable development goals through the eu budget.
rapporteur. – madam president, at the outset, all parties were aiming for simplification, particularly for end users, but it is important to understand that drawing up financial regulations is inevitably a balancing act. firstly because it is important to remember this is public money and it’s important we do not compromise monitoring and control. secondly, because performance budgeting brings a whole new dimension to financial regulations. it will usher in a new culture to eu spending: that we welcome, but we also need to understand and recognise the potential conflict between measuring performance and achieving simplification. overall, i would have wished to have achieved more by way of simplification, but i am happy that we made good progress establishing a performance culture, and i hope the commission will keep up that momentum. i’d like to make a couple of points. on performance, we set requirements for internal auditors to help measure and monitor performance and we introduced concrete definitions of results and outcomes. on simplification, we streamlined the audit process, we introduced a number of procedures to make the audit burden more proportionate to the level of risk, and we also reduced the burden of multiple auditing. on modernisation, we introduced simpler regulations for blending structural funds and the european fund for strategic investments (efsi), not only to bring greater clarification but also to ensure that there is no transfer between those systems. as rapporteur for the committee on budgetary control, i am acutely aware of the need to ensure proper control of eu funds so, first, we now have greater clarity and transparency in the reporting procedures. secondly, we’ve accelerated the discharge procedure. all parties committed to achieving n+1 in the future, and that’s important because it will make audit processes more relevant and more instructive for future budgeting. overall, i am happy with the outcome but, with such a complex and time—consuming process, there are inevitably some regrets. one in particular was the timing of the introduction of regulations. this is an omnibus package and, bearing in mind the requirements of the different spend committees and the nature of their work, the new regulations will come into force on a number of different dates. that is not ideal. firstly, not ideal because of the disruption and confusion arising from changing regulations part-way through the year; and, secondly, not ideal in terms of the coherence of the text. however, given the complexity of the exercise – there were 800 pages of text and 13 trilogues – and given the very tight timescale that the commission required, we had no choice but to stagger the dates of introduction or there would have been no reform at all. i want to finish by putting on record my thanks to the many people who have been involved in this reform right from the start. first, i would mention the estonian presidency. secondly, the commission, and i particularly want to thank commissioner oettinger for his generous help and support. i want to thank the staff. i want to thank the opinion committees. in particular, i want to thank our shadow rapporteurs, especially mr maňka and ms ayala sender, and jean arthuis, chair of the committee on budgets. but my biggest thanks go to my co-rapporteur, ingeborg gräßle. without her limitless appetite for detail, her patient persistence and her tireless efforts, frankly, i don’t think we would have reached such a favourable result at all. my thanks to all of them, particularly my co-rapporteur. (applause)
rapporteur. – madam president, the european union budget, as we’ve said this evening, needs to constantly adapt and change to meet new challenges, new priorities, new budgets and now a new multiannual financial framework (mff). behind all that, we need the constant imperative to ensure scrutiny and control. i am happy to think that these regulations, incorporating as they do simplification, performance, flexibility and modernisation, will lay foundations for the budget to meet those challenges and to ensure value for money for european taxpayers. i am proud to have been co-rapporteur and i want to thank my colleagues for their very kind comments in that respect. it is a matter of great regret to me that i shall not be here to see these processes come to fruition but i am very heartened, warmed, to know that mr kelly will be here keeping an eye on affairs on my behalf. my thanks to you.
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, in our rush to debate the merits and faults of the privacy shield, we seem to have forgotten what it was meant to do. it ensures eu protections for personal data extended beyond our borders. that means individuals have easily accessible redress mechanisms when they fear their data is not being treated properly. it makes access to us markets simpler and easier for our smes. it is an indispensable tool that ensures that data can flow between the eu and the us without jeopardising the standard of protections that apply. now there are, of course, challenges with enforcement. eu data protection law itself is complex and trying to marry that with the obligations of a third country is not always easy, but this is not a reason to throw the baby out with the bathwater, especially as many eu governments themselves are struggling to implement the general data protection regulation (gdpr). the focus should be on how we improve enforcement and there are some very useful suggestions in this resolution that we support. however, proposing to suspend the shield is irresponsible and driven by the false assumption that the us is some sort of regulatory wild west, which it clearly isn’t. there are no grounds to judge the us as non—compliant, as the commission has just said. such a proposal would hurt europeans. it risks going back to a contractual system with fewer protections, less clarity for consumers who want to apply their rights and more onerous paperwork and legal fees for our smes. the shield deserves our full scrutiny and inspection, but there is a big difference between scrutiny and sabotage.
madam president, panicked, isolated and scared: that’s how 73—year-old cambridge pensioner merryn grimley says she felt when she got a threatening letter telling her she needed to pay us tax. born to british parents, and having gone to school in britain, worked all her life in britain and retired in britain, she’s now being chased down like a criminal by the usa. she didn’t even know that she was accidentally an american citizen because she was born there. i believe that we need to act. fatca breaches the right to data privacy of the european convention on human rights, and the big financial barriers to renouncing citizenship breach article 15 of the universal declaration of human rights. it’s costing merryn grimley over usd 2 300 to get rid of the us citizenship she never wanted, nor knew that she had. i urge the commission to act, and i will also be asking theresa may to raise this subject with donald trump on his forthcoming visit to britain.
madam president, last month i was honoured to lead a delegation from the committee on employment and social affairs (empl) of this parliament to the united nations in new york for the 11th session of the conference of state parties to the convention of the rights of persons with disabilities (crpd). the eu is officially represented in the crpd by the commission, so this was the first time that members of the european parliament, the directly elected representatives of citizens across europe, participated in the event. i was particularly pleased to listen to my empl colleague, ádám kósa, make a powerful speech about the participation of people with disabilities in the political process. in this session entitled ‘nothing about us without us’, we also learned about the practical steps that some countries are taking to ensure that everyone can vote – mobile polling stations, taking the election to the voter in hospital, portable polling booths that can enable a wheelchair user to cast their vote in private. as signatories to the convention, the eu has a responsibility to ensure that everyone can participate in the electoral process.
madam president, article 14 of the european convention on human rights demands human rights without discrimination. the equality and human rights commission recently echoed the views of the un and stated that persons with disabilities continue to face an onslaught against their rights in britain and in the north of ireland. this includes the right to participate in public life. in order to uphold this right, elections have to be accessible. member states need to ensure that election registration and all communications are totally accessible: polling stations need to be equipped to facilitate persons with reduced mobility; postal and proxy votes should be available everywhere; and every impediment to disabled candidates putting themselves forward for election should be removed. the eu should focus on this, and not on transnational list nonsense or undemocratic thresholds. brexit makes matters worse for us. brexit will mean the loss of the eu representation and rights for persons with disability and threatens funding for support services, infrastructure and carers. gue/ngl and sinn féin will continue to fight for a rights-based society, and on a separate note, that includes the rights of the interpreters who are on strike around us here.
madam president, the european disability forum, representing the voices of people with disabilities across europe, has adopted a manifesto for the participation of persons with disabilities in the european elections. the manifesto gives recommendations that would ensure that people with disabilities can enjoy their right to vote and stand for election. i invite colleagues from all political groups to read the manifesto and answer the call by integrating the recommendations into their election campaign commitments and pledges. meanwhile, the constant effort to improve the participation of people with disabilities in political and civil life should not limit itself to election periods. the active citizenship of all citizens must remain a priority in our increasingly fragile democracies. the most efficient way to ensure equal opportunities, accessibility, non-discrimination and social justice for all is to maintain a human rights approach, as well as to further involve civil society and those directly affected in the decision—making processes. in that respect, i call on the commission to reinstate the funding for the european network on independent living.
author. – madam president, the decision to annul the results of the second round of the mayoral elections in chișinău, as upheld by the moldovan supreme court, is questionable, to say the least. international and local observers alike have testified to the fact that fundamental freedoms during the elections were fully observed, prompting concern as to the motivation of this curious move. andrei năstase, who won with nearly 53% of the vote, has been involved during the past few years in a number of efforts to uncover corruption and cases of abuses of power at the highest level of office in the state. concerns that this decision, which could prevent him from taking his elected, rightful office, is politically motivated are not to be easily dismissed – unfortunately. coming at a time when the country is looking towards parliamentary elections later this year, its implications are of particular concern to this house. in my group, i therefore support the calls in this resolution to withhold any future disbursements of macro-financial assistance to moldova under the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi) until we have seen the passage of parliamentary elections in line with recognised international standards. i support, of course, moldovan euro—atlantic aspirations, but the country must observe democracy and the rule of law.
i have spent some time in the beautiful city of chișinău, and i know that its citizens want a better society. therefore, the recent court ruling to invalidate the mayoral elections in chișinău is very worrying. none of the candidates had complained about the results of the elections but they were cancelled nevertheless, because of a minor offence punishable by a small fine. the court ruling deprives the moldovan people of their elected candidate and puts democracy in danger. the lack of transparency regarding the decision is also very worrying as it calls into question the independence of the judiciary in moldova. moldovan people want to live in a democratic country and they should not be deprived of their right to political participation. as a close partner of moldova, the european union should support moldovan civil society and citizens, and call for the court ruling to be cancelled.
author. – mr president, last sunday on the 58th anniversary of somalian independence, four civilians were tragically killed by mortar attacks in mogadishu. the next day, seven more were injured by a roadside bomb. both attacks have been attributed to the jihadi terrorist group al-shabaab. on what should have been a weekend of celebration and hope for the somalian people, there was more killing, more bereaved and broken families, more fear and terror. for over two decades, these recurring tragedies have blighted the somali nation. the civil war and unchecked terrorist activities, as well as corruption and mismanagement, have left 80% of the somali population in dire poverty, with two million living as refugees. the lack of food is a reality for millions on the verge of starvation, but, in spite of all this, under president mohammed’s government the country is inching towards some stability – but there is still much more work to be done. if somali security forces are to be up to the task following the withdrawal of the un amisom troops in 2020, then state military capability, security and financial governance must be strengthened. the international community and the eu must continue to do what it can to promote lasting stability and peace in this very fragile nation in the horn of africa.
mr president, i would like to say to the high representative that i never cease to be amazed by some of the proposals that come before this chamber for discussion. in the case of somalia, we have before us proposals that would be onerous for a first-world economy to implement, but here we are seriously suggesting that one of the world’s most impoverished states should be concerned with statutory oversight of its security apparatus and protecting the rights of labour unions. might i respectfully suggest that the priority for both somali forces and the african union mission in somalia (amisom) is to deal with al-shabaab and other extremist militias, thus ensuring that all somalis may be able to take part in the democratic process? even more important to them are food security and access to clean water and education. these self-indulgent proposals bear no relation to the situation on the ground. you seem to hold the somali authorities to a very high standard, high representative, much higher than that to which the spanish government has been held, for example, who seem to be able to imprison political opponents with impunity. mr president, why not instead try to help somalis, as opposed to saddling them with further pointless and irrelevant bureaucratic obligations? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – i wonder if mr carver, who is a brexiter, is aware of the incredible danger to security on the kenyan and somali border precisely because of brexit? we have a very complex arrangement with the kenyan security authorities, who i spoke to when i visited the british embassy in kenya, and they told me about the arrangements that had been made to secure the border of somalia, thereby ensuring that al-shabaab terrorists would not come over. these arrangements are to do with paying the stipend of the soldiers and their training, and it is in danger because of brexit, mr carver.
blue-card answer. – as someone who has visited somalia on four occasions, i am probably the member here who has visited the country more times than anybody else and i feel far more qualified to speak in this area. amisom of course have huge international support, and it is absolutely ridiculous to suggest that international support will not continue after brexit. maybe you might prefer doing it in the name of the european union; maybe you support european military forces. i doubt that many of your constituents do, ms ward, but i take the view that it should be up to national member states to actually have that important decision with regard to the use of our military forces and whom we support. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – as someone who speaks of self-determination, not just for my country with our withdrawal from the european union and a supporter of brexit, but also self-determination for countries such as somaliland, which has been a peaceful breakaway part of somalia for the last 27 years, i have every right to speak on every issue, i say; and sir, i can look our catalonian colleagues in the eyes far better and with far more satisfaction with own soul than i’m sure you can!
mr president, somalia is not a safe place for many reasons. al—shabaab keep terrorising the population. human rights defenders, civil society activists and political leaders continue to face threats on a daily basis. journalists cannot report on the widespread corruption that is tearing through the country. children are at constant risk of being abducted and used as soldiers or going through severe malnutrition. somalia is facing extreme challenges – we acknowledge that – and the eu will continue to assist somalia in improving the living conditions of the most vulnerable, fighting the plight of child soldiers as well as a terror threat that is jeopardising the country’s stability. however the government of somalia must be willing to work on its human rights record, including guaranteeing the basic freedoms of expression and association, as well as ensuring that those responsible for grave abuses do not walk away with impunity. i know that the vice—president / high representative ms federica mogherini is doing a great job, but this area needs her full attention and i am she will do a fantastic job in this area.
mr president, the situation in somalia has been horrific for several decades. the failure of state institutions has allowed non-state actors such as al—shabaab to take control over parts of the territory and perpetrate widespread human rights abuses. as i have already said, a situation that will be worsened by brexit. freedom of expression continues to be limited, and policed by the authorities and armed groups. the plight of journalists is particularly concerning because they are under attack from all sides. somalia is one of the most deadly countries for journalists, with numerous killings often met with impunity. the humanitarian situation is sadly also dramatic as hunger and malnutrition continue to be widespread. the drought has led to the further isolation of women and girls, exposing them to greater risks of sexual violence. the eu should continue to lead support for the somalian people, towards security, and our european partnership with somalia must be based on human rights and it needs to involve women and young people.
mr president, this is a point on somalia. this is not a party political point. this is not a point relating to brexit. this is a political somalia issue.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, burundi teeters on the edge. a return to the barbarity of the civil war must be avoided. instability in burundi risks spreading to the immediate neighbourhood, especially with repeated attacks in bordering rwanda, originating from within the country. however, there are no easy solutions. human history has shown that, of all systems man has devised, democracy offers the greatest wealth and security for all. it is imperative that burundi continues to develop a thriving democracy, despite the actions of the president in extending his term and modifying the country’s constitution to allow him to retain powers into the 2030s, after a referendum that may not have been conducted freely. his commitment not to seek another term beyond this one is helpful. the decision is not quite a resolution to the issue, but it looks to be moving in the right direction and, hopefully, we will begin to move away from the instability that has plagued burundi since 2015.
mr president, the humanitarian situation in burundi is alarming. the period of the constitutional referendum has aggravated the tendency of violence and threats in the country. opponents of the constitutional reform have faced torture, execution and continuing threats and intimidation. political and ethnic polarisation are now tearing apart the integrity of the army, posing another major threat to burundi’s stability. my questions to the high representative are as follows. firstly, what is the eu doing to support the east african community to revive an inclusive and political dialogue, as this is the only way to find a lasting solution to the crisis? secondly, how is the eu supporting refugee camps and settlements, in particular in nyarugusu in tanzania, where the number of refugees has grown three times beyond the intended capacity? thirdly, how does the eu support the 3.6 million people inside burundi who are in need of humanitarian aid? finally, high representative, i urge you not to mistake president nkurunziza’s statement, made in support of his successor after the referendum, as a clear and firm commitment not to run.
mr president, i want to thank everyone for the work they’ve done on this important file. we are all united in our shared mission to protect artists and cultural diversity in europe and i speak as rapporteur in the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco), which is the only committee to share joint competency on one of the most controversial articles – article 13. in our committee we were able to reach a broad compromise that makes meaningful progress on the value gap while at the same time safeguarding the rights of european internet users, smes and start—ups. i deeply regret that the imco position has not been taken into account and the text of the committee on legal affairs (juri) does not achieve the needed balance. there are real concerns about the effect of article 13 and freedom of expression, raised by experts ranging from the un special rapporteur, david kaye, to the inventor of the world wide web, sir tim berners-lee, and there are real concerns voiced by our citizens. just yesterday i received a petition signed by almost a million people against the juri committee mandate. (murmurs of dissent followed by interjection by the president)although there is consensus about the goals behind this law, huge controversy still exists about the methods proposed. something is not right here. we owe it to the experts, stakeholders and citizens to give this directive the full debate necessary to achieve broad support. i ask you to refuse to fast—track this law to allow for a broad fact-based debate in september. please reject the mandate and vote against the juri proposal. (loud applause)
mr president, i welcome this report, but would also like the council to take note of the resolution passed by this house in may on animal testing for cosmetics. the 73rd session of the un general assembly is an ideal platform for eu leaders to build support for an international convention to ban animal testing for cosmetics within the un framework. organised by cruelty free international and the body shop, over 6.5 million people have signed a petition for a global ban to stop half a million animals suffering each year, because animal testing for cosmetics is cruel, unnecessary and outdated. europe banned it. it works. our cosmetics companies haven’t gone bust. our makeup is still top—notch. indeed, we know that using technologies like synthetic skin give more accurate results. europe led the way. our soaps, shampoos and lipsticks are cruelty free. so let it be across the world too.
mr president, i welcome this resolution. since i spoke in this chamber last night, i have heard from more accidental americans in my constituency. michelle, who lives in norfolk, was born in the united states to a british dad and a canadian mum and left aged four years old. since then, she’s only lived studied and worked in britain and, of course, paid british tax, but now her bank is threatening to close her account if she doesn’t supply multiple us tax compliance documents, not least providing her us social security number, which of course she doesn’t have. i have heard from constituents who are getting into debt, having their bank accounts closed and are feeling afraid and scared. we have got european banks handing over personal data about their customers to the us authorities. fatca breaches the right to data privacy under the european convention on human rights. it’s time for a rethink so that brits who never wanted to be americans can continue ‘life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness’ in the place that they call home without being chased down like common criminals by the us tax authorities.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i believe the european solidarity corps is an interesting and timely initiative which gives young people the chance to take part in projects that will benefit communities across europe. it is, in part, a response to the outpouring of compassion shown by many young people in response to numerous natural disasters, such as devastating floods in my region, and to the refugee crisis. the initiative is a unique chance to strengthen the european dimension of volunteering, hopefully enabling exchange of best practices among member states and encouraging wider promotion of active participation and volunteering at national level. however, i must take this opportunity to reaffirm the key role of citizenship, education and active participation of young – and less young – people more generally, and the importance of properly supporting all relevant initiatives in this field through the next eu budget. citizenship, education and active participation facilitate intercultural dialogue, and promote personal and collective development and wellbeing and empowerment of individuals and communities. we must prepare a generation of young people with the motivation, commitments and skills, including critical and creative thinking, so that they can be audacious problem solvers and responsible citizens in a more fair and inclusive world. following the charlie hebdo and danish attacks in 2015, the 28 eu education ministers signed the paris declaration calling for the use of education and active participation to promote fundamental values. i was proud to be given the responsibility of writing a report for parliament’s committee on culture and education on this topic, making many concrete recommendations. we now have a historic opportunity to implement these recommendations and provide citizenship initiatives with proper funding. but promoting our fundamental values through dialogue, diversity and education is a shared responsibility of societies, and all stakeholders must be included in that strategy. the next eu budget must, therefore, also properly recognise the key role of civil society and organisations working at grass roots level and provide them with appropriate support and resources.
mr president, the european solidarity corps is a scheme dreamt up by mr juncker immediately after the united kingdom voted to leave the european union. in his state of the union speech two years ago, mr juncker admitted the eu was at a low ebb and sprayed around half-baked ideas for new programmes in the manner of an out-of-control machine gun. two years on, one would have hoped that cooler heads would have prevailed, because this is a knee-jerk idea that will not achieve the purpose for which it was devised, which is boosting levels of european consciousness in member nations. but it certainly will risk unfairly crowding out the many excellent youth volunteer schemes that already exist within those nations, and at a cost to european taxpayers running into hundreds of millions of euros. in my own country, the national citizen service and the world-renowned duke of edinburgh award scheme stand to suffer unfair eu-subsidised competition. perhaps one could coin the phrase ‘solidarity dumping’ to describe the phenomenon. i would also like to sound a note of caution about one of the main activities that was envisaged for this scheme, namely to have young, idealistic europeans working to assist newly-arrived asylum seekers, who are overwhelmingly young men from societies riddled with violence and in which core european values such as gender equality are not well observed. the risks entailed in having untrained european teenagers working in proximity with often traumatised new arrivals should be obvious. another weakness of the corps is that it threatens entirely to smother two pre-existing smaller schemes, namely the european voluntary service, and eu aid volunteers. in the autumn of 2016, a commission that felt humiliated by the brexit vote and alarmed by a public backlash against its approach on immigration and asylum, decided to make up programmes on the hoof. it would actually send out a message that mr juncker has calmed himself and is no longer in such a blind panic were he now to pull the plug on this folly. after all, polling evidence indicates that it’s not starry-eyed school-leavers who have lost faith in the eu, but rather their more experienced and worldly-wise parents after many years of suffering commission power grabs that undermine their quality of life, particularly in the fields of monetary policy and migration. this scheme was always more about propaganda than public spiritedness and it should be scrapped.
rapporteur. – mr president, can i first of all thank my colleagues on the committee on regional development (regi) for their cooperation on this report. it is a good time to have such a report because something important is happening. by that i mean of course the discussions on the next mff and the negotiations on the next cohesion policy regulations, because unfortunately there are still some people who don’t see the value of cohesion policy. they want to cut the spending and reduce its influence, but i think in northern ireland we have an example where cohesion policy has worked. colleagues will recall that, since the good friday agreement in 1998, northern ireland has been on a path of peace and we should remember that along that path they have been helped by the european union. northern ireland has benefited from various cohesion policy programmes: erdf, esf, the rural development plan, and also fisheries funding. unfortunately these are likely to go post—2020. but there are also interreg, and the peace programme and these can – and should – remain, whatever happens post—2020. prior to drafting my report, we took a regi delegation to northern ireland. it was a good and interesting delegation. we saw interreg cross-border projects in derry—londonderry, for example health projects where people cross the border to receive health care. we also met and talked to businesses who benefited from cross—border operations. so it brings social and economic benefits. in belfast we met the survivor and victim support project and we heard about the excellent work they were doing, and we saw and heard from two community projects funded by the peace programme. let me remind colleagues that the peace programme in the current round received eur 270 million. we saw two centres where people – mainly young people – from both communities came together to learn, to dance, to sing, to enjoy themselves, to play sport and to socialise together. i believe that projects like these are vital if we are to continue to break down mistrust, particularly amongst future generations. i think one of the reasons why this type of project has been so successful is because it has used a bottom-up approach, where people from communities have come together and done things together to benefit them as individuals and to benefit their communities. another thing we learned on our delegation was that eu funds are seen as neutral. that kept coming up time after time. so eu funds are accepted because they don’t come from the uk, they don’t come from the irish government, they come from the european union. as i said, this means all communities have accepted eu funding and have put that funding to good use. that is why one of the key findings of this report is that the peace programme and interreg must continue post—2020, whatever happens. another key recommendation in our report is that the peace programme can be used as a model and used elsewhere where there has been conflict and where there has been mistrust. so we are looking to the future here to say that cohesion policy should continue and this would be another good use for it. i believe that this is a good report. there have been lots of discussions in the regi committee and it has had good support in the regi committee. so please, colleagues, let’s send a message to the european union, to the irish government and, in particular, to the uk government, that interreg and, in particular, the peace programme are so important. we must continue to fund them post—2020, whatever happens.
member of the commission. – mr president, first and foremost, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur mr vaughan on his report. i believe it brings an accurate and some much—needed light to the decisive impact that cohesion policy has had in northern ireland. i had the pleasure back in november of attending an exhibition hosted by the european parliament on peace and interreg (european territorial co—operation) projects and i have also had the opportunity over the last four years to meet several beneficiaries, and what i witnessed through their stories was a vivid and concrete expression of what cohesion policy can help us to achieve. as you said, eu investments have helped bring people close together and increased the prosperity of northern ireland and its citizens, but most importantly, they have contributed to the economic transformation of a region that was facing many complex challenges. i think it is quite obvious that over the past 20 years, eu funding for northern ireland has been both substantial in size and successful in its implementation. this includes bespoke actions and investments from all european structural and investment funds. the erdf – european regional development fund – alone has provided over eur 1 billion through regional growth programmes for northern ireland. in addition, northern ireland and the border region of ireland benefited from over eur 2 billion through peace and interreg funding. honourable members, i am particularly pleased to hear from you that the regional development committee’s fact—finding mission to northern ireland was enriching and confirmed that the programmes were delivering efficiently on the ground. whether we are talking about funding the science park in derry/londonderry, thus helping small-and medium-sized enterprises and micro businesses to innovate, or about supporting gross community dialogue in belfast through urban regeneration projects, i think cohesion policy has brought a holistic approach in northern ireland which has been instrumental in addressing the multifaceted challenges of the region. as rightly underlined in your report, the peace and interreg cross-border programmes have been of particular importance, and they are making a vital contribution to long-term partnership, peace and prosperity. i took good note of the report’s call for a continuation of funding for the peace and interreg programmes after 2020 and my message to you is clear: we are on the same wavelength. you all know and we know that the commission included in its draft cohesion policy package for the next programming period a proposal for a new peace programme – we call it the ‘peace+ programme’, combining the current peace and ireland-northern ireland cross-border programme. i think this a very tangible sign of the commission’s continuous commitment and of our firm belief that cross—border funding remains paramount for north—south cooperation in ireland. thank you for your attention and i am looking forward to our debate.
on behalf of the s&d group. – thank you mr president. i congratulate my friend, the rapporteur, on an excellent and concise report. it is important to remember that the essence of the good friday agreement is that it provides the framework that enables the different traditions in northern ireland to coexist peacefully. the important work reviewed in this report aims to maintain the climate in which peace can continue to evolve. let us not forget that the good friday agreement was approved of overwhelmingly by people on both sides of the irish border. sadly, there are some brexiteers, like mr rees mogg in the uk parliament, who want to pick and choose which bits of democracy they respect, and they dismiss the importance of maintaining this agreement after brexit. to dismiss the agreement is to take peace for granted, and when you take peace for granted, you are on a very slippery slope. so it is vital that the work described in this report continues, even if cohesion policy cannot be the vehicle. if and when brexit goes ahead, there are other financial instruments in the union that can fill the gap, as paragraph 10 of this report makes clear.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, can i first of all congratulate the rapporteur and say that, two decades on from the belfast agreement, northern ireland has been transformed economically and socially. and there is no doubt that european support has played an important role in terms of economic development and social cohesion. in recent years, funding from the european regional development fund has supported a vast range of projects, including investment in the development of tourism as well as infrastructure projects. many projects have benefited from the european social fund, helping individuals and families across northern ireland, supporting initiatives which have helped to increase skills and reduce economic inactivity. the peace programme has supported several big-ticket projects as well but, in my view, the greatest impact is the role it has played on the ground and in communities. so i welcome the fact that the report recognises the important contribution these funds have made to northern ireland and i very much agree with the rapporteur and his comments on the bottom-up approach. can i also say that, since the referendum result, my party has been very clear: we do not want support of this kind to be disrupted or diminished as a result of brexit. however, i have to say i am more than disappointed by the report’s suggestion that without these funds the peace process would be put at risk. to me, this is overly simplistic at best, and at worst it risks giving a potential excuse to those who seek to justify terrorism. i have to ask a question here, maybe to the rapporteur and maybe to the commissioner. if we decide, or if it is decided, to give funds to northern ireland after 2020, and the united kingdom is no longer part of the european union and there will be no meps from northern ireland within the chamber, who is actually going to represent northern ireland? the uk will not be at the council table, there will be no commissioner from the united kingdom, and there will be no meps in this house, so that is a very difficult road to go down. it is an interesting road that needs to be addressed, and it is one i have certainly given some thought to, so it will be very interesting to see how the commission and the council actually deal with that problem. however, i congratulate the rapporteur and i thank all those involved very much.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, i commend derek vaughan on his report. cohesion funding has played a huge role in supporting the good friday agreement via aiding thousands and thousands of people who depend on this funding for their businesses, community projects and infrastructure. the british government says it will guarantee eu funding streams to the north post-2020. however, what if there is no brexit deal? the civil servants in the north have already identified a shortfall of over 10 million. even if the british were to deliver on their dodgy guarantees, the british cabinet – a gang of incompetent fools – say people should keep calm and carry on and ignore the brexit chaos. meps, especially the two unionists from the north of ireland, need to endorse this report and to vote in favour of it. no washed-out kingdom fixated on its empire of old will ever serve the interests of the people of ireland, north and south. the north of ireland needs a differentiated approach. it needs all strands of cohesion funding to apply to it, not just now, but in the post-brexit future, and as the only mep from the north who’s fighting brexit every day, i deeply appreciate the fact that the north is getting this kind of special financial assistance and financial special status post-brexit.
thank you mr president, and thank you to our colleague mr vaughan and indeed the whole regional development committee (regi) for this report. cohesion funds have played a part in consolidating progress in northern ireland. this has not been without faults. in respect of innocent victims of terrorism, i would question the reports premise that this has always been viewed as neutral money in how it has been allocated. and in more recent times, community organisations including voluntary and womenʼs organisations have argued that red tape has curtailed benefits for local people. of course, it is money that also originates from uk taxpayers as an eu member state and so our focus going forward must not be on how it is lost, but on how it can be used to bring even better benefits. the government has indicated that there will be a shared prosperity fund across the uk post-brexit. it also wants to agree cooperation accords with the eu to collaborate in specific areas of investment. moving forward, we will continue to work with our government to ensure that the commitments towards peace and interreg programmes are honoured. this is necessary and positive work, and we look forward to working in goodwill and cooperation.
mr president, ideologically imposed austerity and an ineffective devolution deal from westminster have left northern ireland less economically developed than other regions of the uk for decades. the government’s own impact assessments predict a devastating 8% hit to the economic growth of northern ireland if the uk leaves the european union, and others have put the figure far higher. two years on from the eu referendum, the government are yet to lay out a single workable plan to maintain the integrity of the good friday agreement, one of the eu’s most celebrated symbols of peace. theresa may’s customs plans have unravelled. they are bureaucratic, unworkable and designed to paper over the cracks of a divided tory government, rather than deliver a deal that works for the british people. the conservatives’ dirty deal with the dup and the collapse of power sharing in stormont, with no imminent sign of its return, further add to the lack of northern ireland’s democratic voice during the negotiating process. so it is time for all of us to acknowledge that there is only one way to maintain the full integrity of the irish border and prevent the economic and social downturn that brexit will inevitably bring, and that is to stop it. that’s what the majority of the people in northern ireland want.
rapporteur. – mr president, i’ll just try to respond to a couple of points and then make a few concluding remarks. first of all, i would like to thank colleagues for their positive comments right across the chamber, although i think one or two colleagues didn’t quite get the e—mail about what this report is supposed to be about and what it is not supposed to be about. but i think, in general, the comments were very, very welcome. i particularly welcome the comments from mr nicholson and the question he raised, and i think you, commissioner, partly answered that. we need to look at what member states – and particularly, maybe, the irish government – are saying about how eu funds are administered in the future and how northern ireland is represented in those discussions. i also welcomed his comments when he said that northern ireland has come a long way. there has been huge economic improvement and tensions have been reduced, but we do know that those tensions still bubble away. when we were there on the delegations, one of the things we were told was that some survey work had been done and since the referendum, attitudes have hardened amongst the community. so i hope nobody gets the impression – and they should not get the view from the report – that no eu funds means a return to troubles. the report isn’t saying that, and i wouldn’t say that, but what i am saying – and what i think the report says – is that the eu funds have made a valuable contribution to reducing those tensions and conflicts. so i think that is the important point in terms of mr nicholson’s view. therefore eu funds should continue in the future. we should continue to fund interreg and the peace programme. we have seen for ourselves on our delegation how welcome those funds are and how important those funds are for making a contribution to communities. whatever happens in the future – deal or no deal, as ms anderson said – the uk government, the irish government and the european union should commit to continuing to operate and fund interreg and the peace programme. ms dodds is right that nothing is ever important. in the regi committee we spend a huge amount of time talking about bureaucracy and simplifying things so we all want to reduce bureaucracy and we also want to make things as simple as possible, particularly for users. but, overall, these funds have been good. they have delivered on the ground. as i said in my earlier contribution, one of the reasons why they have delivered on the ground is because local people themselves have owned it. they have decided how they want to spend the money. they have decided how they are going to spend the money on important things, which are going to impact on their communities. so, just to conclude, i think it is absolutely vital that these funds continue in the future. i hope everybody in this parliament, right across the political divide, right across the chamber, would support this report tomorrow and send a clear message from this parliament.
rapporteur. – mr president, there is a welsh proverb: ‘a nation without a language is a nation without a heart’ – cenedl heb iaith, cenedl heb galon. it reflects the centrality of the language to people’s identity and culture. in the same way, europe’s linguistic diversity is an integral element of european identity, reflected in the motto unity in diversity. the eu has 500 million citizens, 24 official languages, five co-official languages and three alphabets, but some 60 other languages are also part of the eu’s heritage, including sign languages, which are included in my report. the eu has played an important role in supporting linguistic diversity and encouraging the promotion and protection of minority and lesser—spoken languages. this is in article 22 of the charter for fundamental rights. the committee on culture and education agreed that we must ensure comprehensive eu—level legal protection for regional and minority languages, recognising the collective rights of national and linguistic minorities in the digital world. because when we go online, we find a world where many languages are at risk of extinction. new technologies like siri and alexa are changing the way we live our lives, but are available in just a few languages. as this technology gets more widely used, the speakers of other languages are being left behind. to help address this problem my report calls on the commission to bring forward a range of measures, including: allocating the specific area of multilingualism and language technology to the portfolio of one commissioner; establishing a large—scale, long—term funding programme for research and development and innovation, as well as establishing a european language technology platform, and extending the digital language diversity project; supporting education policies to ensure that the next generation of europeans will lead the way in this field, as well as encouraging companies to take the business opportunities that this would present. our multilingualism is a great asset, an opportunity, and at the same time is one of the eu’s greatest challenges. the impetus from my report was a stoa study entitled ‘language equality in the digital age – towards a human language project’ which showed the social and economic consequences of language barriers. in fact, we see the technology gap widening between the large, well—resourced languages and others, even some official languages. the network of experts on language technologies –meta—net– warns that at least 21 european languages are in danger of extinction in the digital world. so we must act, and urgently. this is a huge opportunity for the eu to demonstrate a real commitment to language equality which will benefit all its citizens, to share ideas and good practice, and i am proud that researchers in wales, such as in canolfan bedwyr at bangor university, are leading the way. finally, can i thank the shadow rapporteurs for their enthusiastic cooperation, my assistant, cai elis, for his excellent work on this report, as well as our group staff, colleagues in the committee on industry, trade and research, the committee secretariat and all the experts who advised me during the process. it is clear this is an issue of huge interest.
mr president, we need to hold our governments and our businesses accountable for the way they engage with other countries, especially when it comes to preserving natural resources. indigenous people’s rights, and in particular land rights, are almost systematically overlooked. last december in kenya, the sengwer community faced a wave of forced evictions from their ancestral land, despite the fact that their forest is included in the water conservation programme financed by the eu, and some sengwer were killed in the eviction process. the eu temporarily suspended its funding and now we need to continue engaging with the kenyan authorities on the ground to ensure full accountability for the human rights violations that occurred. it is also important that the eu delegation in nairobi doesn’t let the current negotiations drag on, as many people’s livelihoods depend on the viability of this project. we need to keep this experience in mind in order to ensure that human rights due diligence, in particular when it comes to indigenous rights, remain at the heart of any future eu engagement with other countries.
mr president, it is the entitlement and birthright of all of us born on the island of ireland to be part of the irish nation. article 2 of bunreacht na héireann defines citizenship as ‘a right to rights’, and the right to democratic participation is a crucial element of citizenship. the north of ireland should continue to have representatives here post-brexit. legal advice by barrister mark bassett demonstrates that it is legally possible and permissible for a dedicated ireland north constituency to be established, and for the two additional mep seats to be allocated to the north by the oireachtas, simply by adopting a wider provision in the european parliament act 1997. out of 28 member states, 22 afford nationals not resident in their member state the right to vote in european parliament elections. currently, ireland deprives those of us living outside the jurisdiction of the state that right. with only 200 days before brexit, no matter what its shade, the people of the north must suffer most. the good friday agreement will be undermined and the decision taken by the eu will continue to impact all of us after brexit, so strong voices will be needed here in the european parliament post-brexit.
mr president, penguins can have a tough time in the falklands because of unlicensed egg collecting, invasive diseases, fishing and getting covered in oil. but now there’s another problem hatching – brexit. brexit has left the uk overseas territories in a flap, as the islands stand to lose millions in funding from eu conservation projects. five projects in the south atlantic are currently funded by the best scheme, which runs until december 2019. it also means goodbye to life funding, which issues grants of up to four and a half million pounds. i often say that no one who voted for brexit, voted to lose their job or to damage the nhs, or for lower food standards or fewer rights at work. the list goes on and on. and today i add to it that no one who voted for brexit, voted to harm penguins. hard tory brexit means a million penguins, and our nation, risk being left out in the cold.
mr president, i rise to demonstrate the solidarity of this house with everyone affected by natural disasters over the summer period, but, as first vice—president of the delegation for relations with india, i want to highlight the plight of the people of kerala. over the summer, devastating flooding has killed more than 500 people, more than a million people have been displaced, and more than 169 medical facilities, including hospitals, have been damaged. although some people have been able to return to their homes from the relief camps, the water has not receded and the risk of waterborne diseases is high. cases of rat fever have been reported in five districts. i welcome the eu’s support to the indian red cross for immediate relief assistance, but it is imperative that greater support is made available for building medical facilities. all over the globe we have witnessed the effects of climate change. therefore, i call for urgent implementation of the eu-india clean energy and climate partnership. this has to be prioritised by the commission.
mr president, the discussions that we have been having about the future status of northern ireland and the border within ireland have an oddly antiquated, almost 19th century feel as though borders were some terrific event involving customs officers with great epaulets and peaked caps who have to rifle through your bags and check every item. of course, these days the overwhelming majority of customs checks are done online and in advance. indeed, advances in blockchain will eventually make customs checks between all advanced economies irrelevant. we already have a border on the island of ireland. there are differential regulations, differential tax rates. there is some cross-border smuggling now, and it is policed away from the border. there is no reason why, provided we have a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement between the united kingdom and the european union based on mutual recognition, we cannot carry on with the existing arrangements.
mr president, greece, we are now told, has turned the corner. it has returned to normality. actually, i’m not sure it has even returned to normality in a strict constitutional sense in the sense that it still has external constraints on its budgetary freedom of action. but how can we talk of normality, given the economic and human ruin inflicted on that country over the past decade? how can you begin to weigh up the ongoing cost to greece of the lost talent from the generation driven into emigration? an irrecoverable generation. we talk of normality, but i would ask all colleagues in this house if they can’t declutter their minds of assumptions and prejudices and ask themselves one question honestly: would it not have been much better, knowing what we now know for greece, when the crisis emerged in 2009 to have defaulted, decoupled, devalued and returned to growth?
mr president, as we meet here, the british trades union congress meets this week for its 150th annual congress. firmly on their agenda is the important need to strengthen and protect employment rights. the report that we have just approved this morning sets out the important need to strengthen the rights of people in the workplace with a terminal illness. that is the subject of the important ‘dying to work’ campaign, which has secured the support of members from across this house, of trade unions and of employers. we must redouble our efforts, and i call again on the commission today to take legislative action to ensure that people with a terminal illness are supported by their employers and have their full rights in the workplace protected.
mr president, i welcome this report and the specific reference to the tuc’s dying to work charter. the charter already covers three quarters of a million workers, and has been signed by many leading businesses and organisations such as e.on, the royal mail and the university of essex, in my region. the campaign is about protecting workers if they get a terminal diagnosis. with the terrible news from the doctor, a person’s world is turned upside down. some want to stop working, others to carry on, but nobody wants to face the sack. then there is the question of stressful hr procedures, reduced financial security and loss of death in service payments. the majority of employers want to do the right thing, not to penalise a worker with incurable cancer, and that is why in the absence of legislation i am urging more companies across the east of england, large and small, to adopt the dying to work charter. if it doesn’t affect you today, it could do tomorrow, so please sign up.
mr president, the me too movement has rocked the world of entertainment as well as sport and politics. indeed, no industry is immune to the perils of sexual harassment. with the 2017 crime survey for england finding that 10 000 women are sexually abused each week, it is right that we all challenge the cultures that lead to harassment, abuse and violence, and i am proud that all british labour meps and our staff have received sexual harassment training. me too sends a powerful message: no matter your popularity or your power, you will be found out. i also think it is right to tackle everyday sexism. the very first time that i was welcomed into this chamber by the then president, i was introduced as herr mayer, and personally i am sick and tired of the letters and emails i receive that are addressed to mr mayer, and of being asked in meetings if i’m saving the seat for my boss. so i welcome this report to promote a culture of equality and respect.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i would like to say to mr orbán: thank god, there is at least one european leader prepared to stand up for his principles, his nation, his culture and his people. in the face of such extreme bullying, ‘thank god you’re there’ is all i can say. i am sure that for hungarians of a certain age today will have brought back many dark memories. you’re here with a show trial where a bunch of political non-entities get up and point the finger and scream, enjoying themselves with their afternoon hate, and the chief prosecutor, the commissar that comes from the unelected government, has the audacity to lecture you on democracy. you don’t know what you’re talking about. the fact that you’ve got 50% of the vote in your country and that no one has ever voted for timmermans or can’t remove him seems to have passed him by. he’s also telling you ‘you’re not getting your judicial appointments right, you’ve got to change things’. this is the man who is one of the bosses of the european commission that appoints martin selmayr, driving a coach and horses through all the rules that exist here. what is really happening here, mr orbán, is that they are just updating the brezhnev doctrine of limited sovereignty. there’s no point pretending in this union that you’re independent, there’s no point pretending you run your own country. and article 7 is the new method of adopting that. they want to strip you of your voting rights, they want to stop giving you european funding, and all of it because you have the audacity to stand up to george soros, the man who has poured usd 15 billion all over the world in trying to break down the nation states and to get rid of our traditional forms of democracy. in hungary he spent money to promote illegal immigration into your country and you, quite rightly, have stood up to him and closed him down. i wish we all did the same. mr orbán, you keep saying you want to stay a member of this european union, but it is not just your country that has been insulted today. you’ve been insulted today. it is time to be more logical. come and join the brexit club. you’ll love it.
thank you, mr president, for hearing my point of order. i rise as one of the four members of the european parliament who are from the roma minority, and could i honourably remind members that lívia járóka, one of the fidesz meps, is one of the other four roma meps. she sits on the right of politics and not all roma are necessarily on the left of politics, just like all people within society, and all this talk of anti-roma ... mr orbán has a roma mep who sits as a vice-president of the european parliament.
mr president, i would like to say to mr orbán that i have been in hungary many times, both before i entered politics and in the past four years during my term of office. coming from a civil society background, i can feel the pulse on the streets, and i was on the streets of budapest in july for pride, a civil society action. i did not see you joining the march, mr orbán. i did not see you standing shoulder to shoulder with the hungarian people of all ages, the families with their children, who came out in force to stand up for gender equality and non-discrimination. on that day we had to march with police protection because there was a fascist counter-march. you have created this state of xenophobia and creeping fascism. fear of the other stalks your land. the racists, the misogynists and the homophobes are emboldened by your illiberal, anti-european, regressive values. i love hungary, mr orbán, i love its people and its culture, and it’s not hungary which is the problem – it’s you, who have forgotten what it means to be both european and a christian.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection. – mr president, as rapporteur for the committee on the internal market and consumer protection (imco), with joint responsibility on article 13, i must say that this article remains problematic. the proposals to protect copyright owners are so restrictive that they could have a detrimental effect on the freedom of expression. there’s a broad consensus across this house that we should protect the work of artists, but i agree with consumer organisations, user groups, academics, developers – and the list goes on – that article 13, as proposed, goes too far and could dramatically restrict the internet freedoms of our citizens. to fundamentally change platform liability through copyright and not the e—commerce directive is dangerous and deceitful. what will this lead to? filtering, where error—prone and hypersensitive algorithms will remove anything that could pose a risk. this includes legal content. if this is not censorship then i don’t know what is. on article 13 i ask colleagues to support imco’s balanced text protecting our citizens’ fundamental rights.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, may i first of all start off by recognising the tremendous work that the author of the report, my good friend mr voss, has carried out, and indeed the shadow rapporteurs as well. if anybody was in any doubt about the power of platforms, the exercise that those platforms carried out in terms of targeting this parliament, members of parliament, and indeed, policy advisors and staff that were working on our behalf, should leave them in no doubt at all as to the tremendous power that they wield. that was not an exercise in democracy. that was an exercise in manipulation, and we must ensure that there is a greater balance that comes out of this process that we are undertaking at this moment in time. much of the campaigning focused on articles 11 and 13. whilst there are a lot of improvements there – and indeed we will be voting on that and much of that will receive support from my group – our position on article 11, the publisher’s right, is to support it, whilst narrowing the remit so that it would not apply to insubstantial parts of articles or short extracts. i think this is a balanced solution. on article 13, i support the rapporteur’s approach, which i consider to be the only text on the table which addresses the liability of large platforms such as youtube, and makes sure that artists and authors are fairly remunerated. and very finally, i am pleased to have introduced proportionality into the text so that small and micro-enterprise platforms ... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, this report has caused meps to receive thousands of emails from their constituents. the vast majority i have received have asked me to vote against it or at least to vote for those amendments which would mitigate its worst effects. the only reason that we are having this vote at all tomorrow is because, in july, ukip meps and some others invoked rule 69c of the rules of procedure to make that vote happen. otherwise this report would have gone unopposed for negotiations to the commission and we would have been stuck with whatever came out of the legislative sausage machine. this report is another example of the one—size—fits—all legislation to supersede national legislation and laws and it will cause bigger problems than those they are supposed to fix. of course authors should have their works protected under fair and appropriate copyright laws, but this legislation is not the answer. the proposals have been widely criticised as a means of introducing censorship to the internet and social media, and it has been criticised by no less a person than sir tim berners-lee, the creator of the world wide web. many people now rely on the alternative media, like twitter, to learn things which are not reported in the mainstream media and which they would otherwise not see. these proposals will also create a barrier for entry to entrepreneurs, due to the difficult requirements for social media start—ups to comply with and it will inhibit competition. we should not make it harder for people to publish material of interest to the public or restrict the ability of small voices to be heard. i urge meps to vote for the efdd amendment 87 to reject the proposal completely and, if that fails, at least to vote for those amendments that mitigate the worst effects of the proposed legislation.
mr president, colleagues, the essence of the vote tomorrow is to ensure creative workers get fairly paid for their work and are not exploited by large online platforms. we have to close the value gap, have money to reinvest in content and create new work. this is not about censorship. this is not about making individuals liable for their everyday use of the internet, despite the myths. would we dream of turning to other european workers and asking them to give their work for free? so why are we not ensuring creators – our musicians, writers and filmmakers – such basic guarantees? we must vote tomorrow on our european values, pay creators properly for their work, protect them against exploitation and end the unfair monopoly of a few big platforms. (applause)
mr president, well i don’t support articles 11 and 13 and i never have. i don’t believe either of them will do what you want it to do. i don’t believe publishers or creators will make any more money. i don’t think it will hurt google, but it will hurt consumers because big flat platforms and big publishers will face less competition. now we need to recognise that the internet has changed everything, and we need a balanced debate on how we are going to regulate it. but we need to do it carefully and not threaten the entire ecosystem of the internet. article 11 as proposed does threaten news aggregators which drive traffic to publishers’ websites, especially small publishers. it does threaten the ability to post links to social media. it is not proportionate. article 13 threatens to force platforms to check and filter all content, and it will take down legal content. now i accept that there are genuine problems, particularly for the music industry, but we must address them without undermining how people use the internet. think about vlogs, twitch feeds, memes. so i hope constructive compromises will pass tomorrow, but i can’t support the report that came out of the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. – meps have received thousands of emails expressing concern about the digital copyright directive. discussions about this proposal have been both complex and controversial, while seeking a workable compromise between the most contentious elements of the directive, in particular articles 11 and 13, and the right of copyright-holders to receive fair remuneration for their work when it is published online. that is why, in july, we voted to allow for this full plenary debate and amendment process. throughout the negotiation process, the greens/efa group has fought to get the right legislative balance, for creators to get their fair share of remuneration, and for public digital users. however, the current text of the directive includes some provisions that have far-reaching consequences for digital users, for example due to the potential imposition of content filters. there is an undeniable right for creators to be properly compensated for their work. snp meps have always supported that right. on the other hand, we must also seek to protect the public who have the right to freedom of expression. to date, we do not have the necessary legal framework that balances these two principles. i think that the position of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection is reasonable and i will vote accordingly tomorrow.
mr president, recognising that fully autonomous lethal weapons are not fully operational yet, however the use of artificial intelligence is already playing an important role for military around the world. that is why i welcome that we are debating how we can shape international law and policies in this field, because far too often we are behind the curve. given the eu’s ambition to be a global actor for international peace and security, my questions to the high representative are: how does the commission and the eeas define ‘meaningful human control’ over autonomous weapons systems, and what type and what degree of human control? how do they propose we strengthen the precedent in international and disarmament law for banning weapons without human control; and with the intrinsic dual-use nature of emerging technologies, how do we achieve not hampering progress in civilian research and development while having lethal autonomous weapons internationally?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, given the powers vested in the us president, each occupant of the white house can at times be seen to completely define america. trump, with his simple answer to complex problems, his protectionist and anti—multilateralist america first instincts, is, of course, very concerning to all of us. many of the worst predictions have – fortunately – not occurred, but his transactional approach to world affairs is indeed troubling to those of us who believe that the transatlantic partnership is a partnership rooted as much in shared democratic values as in mutual economic interests. trump’s policies, such as the punitive tariffs on steel and aluminium, are particularly regrettable, given their implementation on spurious security grounds against the us’ own nato allies, and his verbal attacks on eu and member states’ domestic migration policies also shouldn’t go unchallenged. but there is an america beyond trump and in dealing with his unorthodox approach, we must not allow this to overshadow the wider picture. when it comes to the tackling of many of the challenges we face mutually across the atlantic, america is and will remain one of our key global allies. i welcome that the elmar brok report acknowledges this broad understanding. on the anniversary of 9/11, other than one or two exceptions, this report has managed to find the right tone in balancing our mutual concerns, such as the us’ regrettable withdrawal from the jcpoa (joint comprehensive plan of action) and the paris climate change treaty and its attempts now to paralyse the wto with their underlining appreciation of our core shared interests in a multipolar world.
mr president, i really can’t decide whether the thrust of this report is anti—american or simply anti—president trump. whatever, the result is the alienation of the united states at this time of great uncertainty. it is not for the eu to second guess the american electorate, and i don’t believe that relations with the us could be influenced by your futile aspirations for ever—closer union. two quick points on the text. there is a good reason why the us cooperates with the parliaments of australia, canada, new zealand and the united kingdom in the area of cyber—threats, that being the long and successful history of intelligence cooperation built on our shared values. why would the us want to include the european union when this place constantly sets out to disparage the american administration? secondly, are you seriously trying to influence the appointment of who heads up the cia? is there no end to your arrogance? i am pleased that president trump has expressed support for the uk post—brexit, and we brits can at least look forward to a long and prosperous relationship with the us. i’m not so sure that that same can be said for your prospects.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, madam high representative, i welcome the un efforts that have brought about a ceasefire to the recent outbreak of fighting in tripoli. yesterday’s attack on the national oil corporation’s headquarters appears not to be a sign of that ceasefire breaking down, with most reports attributing responsibility to isis – sadly, still present on the territory – rather than any of the rival militias. we cannot underestimate, however, the continuing sense of a kind of paralysis of a failed state that dominates the tragic situation in libya. elections before the close of this year looked increasingly unlikely, particularly as we now see italy taking a more proactive role in the process. prime minister conte has said getting the elections is right and is more important than their actual timing, and i agree. this seems also to mark a shift from the french position championed by president macron at the libya summit in may and a move now towards an italian-led solution. obviously, italy’s historical links to libya are extremely strong, but the eu’s southern neighbour’s stabilisation is, of course, in the interests of all the member states, and we need unity on this if we are to prevent a greater migratory flux in future and the creation of a base for international terrorism, drug dealing and an arms trade.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i think that we all agree that libya is a nation in crisis. but there’s been no mention here that it was eu member states bombing libya in march 2011 that led directly to this state of affairs by backing regime change which resulted in extreme violence and chaos, with roving militia and jihadis. and as a direct result of that, economic migrants from all over africa have been enticed to go there and to stay there illegally, and they have been abused by their libyan hosts. we’re setting up processing centres – surely embassies and consulates are processing centres. by setting up these facilities, the message to the entire world is actually: come. all you have to do is make your way to the centre, pay your life savings to criminal people traffickers – who, by the way, fund terrorism – cross the continent of africa or even further afield (passing countless safe havens on the way), get yourself to a processing centre, and you’re going to get into the eu. until the message is made abundantly clear that illegal economic migrants will not be processed and that boats will be turned back, thousands and thousands more sad and desperate lives will be lost in vain, all for the sake of your feelings of virtue. you’re not really helping people.
madam president, madam high representative, i welcome the progress that you and your team are making in very difficult circumstances, particularly on trying to empty the detention centres, which we saw as a parliament delegation recently. of course, what we saw was that the vast majority of people currently in those detention centres have actually been intercepted at sea and returned to libya. so here is the paradox, because this is who we are dealing with. they are now trapped and arbitrarily held in these closed centres throughout the detention matrix. we are in a very difficult position in our discussions with the iom and unhcr. last week we had a very difficult discussion, because on the one hand, we’re discussing disembarkation platforms for the future, and now the unhcr has issued an updated position saying migrants rescued or intercepted at sea should not be returned to libya. really, what i want to ask you is: what do we do now? how are we criminalising ngos, what do we do about the libyan coastguard? i only have one minute, but i really have to ask you to go into more depth on these very difficult questions for the immediate future, because without doing this, we stay in this very difficult situation. no one is saying that you are not making progress on the tough questions, but we really need the answers on these more difficult immediate questions.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the barbaric and insidious israeli occupation of palestine is the problem. all other catastrophes are the symptoms. not content with stealing palestinian land and building their own illegal settlements, the state of israel continues to destroy people’s homes on an industrial scale. khan al—ahmar is the most recent in a series of planned village destruction. the bedouin residents, who valiantly fought the planned destruction for years, have suffered disproportionately because of this apartheid policy. to add insult to injury, the israeli state plans to forcibly relocate the inhabitants to a site right next to a public rubbish dump. this house likes to think it stands up for political freedom and democracy. you would imagine, then, that all here would condemn – without reservation or equivocation – illegal occupation, illegal settlement construction and illegal destruction of property. recently we heard that israel has prevented ahed tamimi from leaving palestine. where else would a state restricting the movement of a political opponent be tolerated? you would imagine that the eu high representative would act decisively and go beyond fluffy words. i won’t hold my breath. now more than ever, palestine needs our support. with the trump administration actively undermining the two-state solution, the eu more than ever has a role to play in advancing peace and justice in the region. inaction is acquiescence. mere rhetoric with no follow—up in these cases of supreme human rights violation means only one charge is viable: rank hypocrisy.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, eu restrictions on how much cash or gold you can take out of the eu is an unacceptable infringement of the freedom of the individual. eu bureaucrats who dreamed up this nonsense have evidently never run a business in their lives. when you go to a car sale, antiques fair or any other international market you need cash and eur or gbp 10 000 is simply not enough. the excuse is always terrorism, money laundering, crime, tax cuts and all trigger words to keep you silent. pure george orwell. it’s absolute twaddle. that is not the real reason for removing privacy of the individual and for any bureaucratic police or customs official confiscating your hard-earned money on a whim, and giving it back when they choose to give it back, even if your business goes bust, is simply not good enough. the real reason is not crime and terrorism; the real reason is fear on the part of the eu weimar state teetering on the brink of financial catastrophe: argentinian banks going bust, italian banks to follow, followed by contagion across europe – even deutsche bank is in trouble. the eu fears decent, hard-working and wise taxpayers getting their money out of the eu, perhaps to great britain. what may be acceptable in france in terms of the droit fiscal on motorways ... (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, this agreement on controls on cash entering and leaving the eu is an important step in the fight against money laundering and terrorism financing. the sharing of information between financial intelligence units and customs authorities has to be strengthened. the recent scandals surrounding many of the well—known european banks demonstrate how criminals have exploited weakness in the banking system to launder vast amounts of cash. ten years after the beginning of the financial crisis, whilst we have strengthened the capital requirements of major banks, and they are supervised by the ecb, the policing of anti-money laundering rules is not covered under this system. instead the responsibility for making sure that the banks carry out customer checks is down to national watchdogs, which leads to patchy implementation. this is the real core of the problem. so this system has to change. tomorrow, president juncker’s state of the union address will announce the strengthening and enforcement of the powers of the european banking authority (eba) and the european public prosecutor’s office in the fight against money laundering, but it is important that we have resources to back it. we only have 1.8 persons in the ecb who deal with this.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i say to mr juncker, what a picture you paint. a european union of peace, of prosperity, of contentedness and, as you said, you’re trying to make it a little more perfect every day. well, it’s a very good advertising slogan, but i tell you what surprised me. since your last state of the union speech there’s been a seismic political event in europe, perhaps one even on a par with brexit. italy, a founding member of the union, the third-biggest economy in the euro area, now has a coalition government between the 5—stars and the lega that is polling over 60% of the vote and is posing a direct challenge, both in terms of the management of the euro area and indeed, how the migration crisis is handled. you made no acknowledgment of that at all. no acknowledgment of the populist revolt that is sweeping through virtually every single member state. instead you’re to carry on regardless. and i noted your continued use of the phrase ‘sovereign europe’. what you’re talking about is a deeper centralisation of power: a centralisation of power in terms of europe’s foreign policy; a centralisation of power, as you first laid out last year, in terms of building a european army; more power at the centre for taxation. all of this, of course, meaning less to be done at the nation-state level. and now another 10 000 european border guards paving the way for a federal border police in europe. well, i’ll tell you something – if you’ve got problems with the italians now, you ain’t seen nothing yet when you put that proposal to them. but it’s all about centralisation – power, power, power. but here’s the funny thing – you appealed to our sense of european patriotism. so why is it that patriotism at the nation-state level is considered to be insular, bad, nasty, xenophobic, probably racist into the bargain? and yet, patriotism at a european level is a good and a virtuous thing. i’m afraid this idea of european patriotism, this idea of putting that flag above their own nation-state flag is for the birds. people do not have a profound sense of european identity. they have a sense of national identity and in a way that is the great dividing line between your vision of europe and that increasingly that is being said by the electors. we wish to live in nation states. now on brexit, mr juncker. on the irish border already there are huge differences between the north and the south. differences of politics, of tax, of currency and of law and we manage. and if we can get to a free trade deal, well, of course, there’ll be no difficulties whatsoever. i thought you had some very positive things to say. you said our vote to leave was a vote to leave the single market and its associated parts. i agree with you. quite why ms may at chequers wants to opt back into much of it, i don’t know. but you said twice that we need to come to a free trade deal. it’s what european exporters want, and it is, absolutely, and it’s what we want. surely now the time is right. the ground is prepared for a canada—plus—style trade deal between you and between us. we leave political union but we carry on doing business on a tariff—free basis. we want it. increasingly, i think that you want it. let’s get brexit sorted and, mr verhofstadt, you’ll be happy, you’ll see the back of us.
madam president, today mr juncker wanted to establish his legacy, but sadly, that legacy will be the loss of a member state and more importantly the loss of confidence in the european union, as demonstrated by recent elections in sweden, italy and germany, as well the migration crisis that continues to cost lives. on brexit, mr juncker reaffirms his view that there should be no hard border between northern ireland and the republic of ireland. i agree. but he also reaffirms support for the belfast agreement. however, the eu backstop proposal ignores one of the core principles of that agreement: the principle of consent. let me make it clear once again in this house: there can be no borders – and certainly not those imposed by the european union – within the internal market of the united kingdom, or interference in its constitutional framework. great britain is northern ireland’s largest market place, where we sell more than in the republic of ireland, the rest of europe and the rest of the world put together. equally, 70% of everything that comes into northern ireland for consumers and the manufacturing process comes from great britain. customs are regulatory barriers which put jobs and families at risk.
madam president, may i congratulate president juncker on his final state of the union speech and whilst many people will be congratulating you, mr juncker, on that and your vision for the future, i just thought it might be pertinent to remind you of what actually happened in europe during your tenure. on the economy, we have seen the collapse of many european countries. youth unemployment in greece sits at 43.2%, in spain 38.8%, in croatia 23.6%. in greece the children of today’s grandchildren will still be paying off the 100 billion in debt that has been left upon them. poverty, misery and sadness covers europe like a dark mist of perpetual pain, whilst in the mediterranean 45 000 bodies will have been buried there. you will have seen millions swarm into europe illegally and you have seen the deaths of 400 in the terrorist attacks. whilst you and your fellow unelected colleagues raise a glass or two to the state of the union, the rest of europe will be asking, what is the union’s state?
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, at its heart, today’s state of the union was actually an appraisal of the commission, of us in this parliament and of the whole european union. too often, when we are wrapped in our bubble of commentators’ blogs, news cycles and work programmes, we forget that it is the people, the taxpayers and the voters, that we serve and not the other way round. but we hear many in this chamber tell voters that their concerns are unfounded, or that the way they have chosen to vote is nationalistic or populist. but by attempting to shut out parties that do not share their vision and do not believe in the project, they also shut up many voters and push them further away. i know that mr juncker has worked very hard to regain the confidence of voters. but many people in many eu member states feel that the eu has lost its way, that it has failed to deliver on issues such as jobs. it has failed to deliver on their concerns over migration; it has failed to deliver on them feeling safer in their home countries, and on the things that they care about. so when politicians here talk about winning back their confidence, it rings hollow to those that are still willing to listen, as they feel that they have heard it all before. i remember only too well in 2014 as president juncker addressed this chamber full of freshly elected meps, he declared it to be a moment to be a new start for europe and said that we should play as a team with common policies. yet voters have seen attempts to push divisive migration policies that sadly, rather than helping people, have reduced sympathy in some quarters for refugees and those fleeing war and persecution, rather than going around the table and asking each country what they can do, rather than telling them what to do. he spoke of greater transparency but the public read in the papers of the appointment of a commission secretary—general that was clouded in secrecy. he said that europe cannot spend money that it does not have but they see a multiannual budget demanding more money at a time when one of the largest net contributors is leaving. he talked about considering giving the euro area its own budget capacity and powers but, as the people of germany will tell you, there is no such thing as european money. my group agreed with mr juncker when he said: ‘we don’t need a european solution to everything’ and this is still the case. so european conservatives and reformists ask that this commission president and future commission presidents listen to the people who have lost confidence in the eu. i know at times that our group can be the greatest critics, but real friends tell each other the hard truths and we work together where we agree. so the ecr calls on the commission to start delivering the kind of european union that people want and deserve. not an eu which increasingly replaces national governments, not a european union that is dismantled and destroyed, but a reformed european union that mr juncker promised to deliver here in this chamber five years ago. with vital elections next year, this is the eleventh hour for the eu. it is time to move on from the 1950s model of a federalised eu, an outdated vision of yesterday and it is time to deliver an eu shaped by the wishes of its peoples, those who want a better tomorrow.
mr president, thank you for letting me speak. this is an enormous strike against freedom of speech on the internet and i ... (vociferous objections) (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, this vote is deleterious to free speech and deleterious to innovation. it is clear that, interpreted in the way we have now seen, it will deter internet platforms from running any material whose copyright they don’t recognise. this will mean effectively the end of memes: no more ‘johny johny yes papa’, no more downfall spoofs, no more ‘distracted boyfriends’. i can’t help noticing that, since the brexit vote, a number of large tech companies have been relocating their european headquarters to london: google, apple, snapchat, ali baba. is it possible that they think there will be a friendlier and looser regulatory climate there than with this kind of restrictive nonsense on the continent? if you want to picture today’s vote in the form of one of the memes before they are banned, then think of it as the distracted boyfriend: the woman in the foreground labelled ‘post-brexit britain’, the ogling man labelled ‘tech companies’ and the angry girlfriend labelled ‘eu institutions’.
mr president, today there were 703 meps in the chamber and 438 voted to support this copyright directive. i voted against, i was one of 226, and although i understand the concerns of libraries, creators and authors because there were lots of contacts that came in, i simply could not afford to support a directive which violates the fundamental principles of freedom of speech and individual liberty, particularly via the articles 11 and 13. it is an awful situation when a number of fellow united kingdom meps voted to support a directive which will penalise a thriving industry base and sector in the united kingdom – brexit immaterial in this situation – and they ought to be ashamed.
mr president, it has been years since i’ve had so many emails from concerned members of the public about a proposal as i did for the copyright directive. and this isn’t just the usual people sending bulk emails either: it is people, often a younger demographic, who are concerned about the impact this directive will have on the internet, and on their lives in a digital world which is already so far away from the world that i grew up in. when you have such concerns, you need to be careful. first, do no harm: so today i voted according to two principles. one, i supported amendments that try to provide some balance and protection for individual users of platforms: protections for smes, protection of hyperlinks and protection against big business overriding consumers. two, i voted against the whole directive on the final vote because i simply cannot support the text of article 11 or article 13. i am sorry that we lost the final vote, but i did my best to stave off the worst excesses.
mr president, the great french statesman charles de talleyrand said of the returning bourbon aristocrats in 1815, ‘they’ve learned nothing and they have forgotten nothing’. sadly, much the same could be said about this chamber. two years ago britain voted to leave the european union, and while there were many reasons for that, one was that the british people had got fed up with the way the european institutions kept interfering in our national life. we do not want to be told what to do by this parliament and the commission. but you just can’t help yourselves. you’re at it again. with this motion you are using the power of the european parliament improperly to interfere in the daily life of the hungarians and how the hungarian government rules their country. to invoke article 7 in this way is the act of a self-serving bully. like those aristocrats, you have learned nothing and you have forgotten nothing.
mr president, the decision to invoke article 7 against a nation is one of the most solemn that this parliament could take. it should be greeted accordingly, not with standing ovations. we were being asked, as meps, to sit in judgment on an entire nation and its laws. in such situations, irrespective of anything else, the bar must be set very high indeed, and the inclusion of questions such as health and safety, or gender studies courses at university, implies the wrong approach. there are indeed aspects of hungary’s policies on the media and independent judiciary which should well be criticised. but fundamentally, there is the question of whether the european union should override national sovereignty. those who support the treaties may well believe it should but the tone of debate is wrong. finally, hungary seems to have been singled out for political reasons. similar cases could have been made against other nations and yet they are not. mr president, i opposed invoking article 7 because this is not the right way to do it, because it has become politicised and because of the precedent it would set.
mr president, artificial intelligence is improving at an incredible pace. we have seen a revolution in how machines learn, some of it reported by the media and sensationalised in the usual way, and the big change in the last couple of years has been the speed at which machines learn. for a computer, for example, to beat the best humans at chess is one thing, but for a new engine to go from learning the rules to beating the best computer in the world in the space of hours, that says that artificial intelligence has improved and is changing. we have computer systems now learning languages to communicate with each other, creating their own languages, in ways that humans don’t even understand. but real-life military situations are not games of complete information like chess, they are games of incomplete information, based on a fog of war, more like stratega. if we cannot understand how machines are making decisions then there are serious future questions, especially when it comes to matters of life and death. so although i disagree with aspects of this report, the debate certainly matters, not just in the uk, not just in europe, but throughout the whole world and through the united nations.
mr president, i welcome this report which reaffirms our shared values of freedom and democracy. democracy is the topic that us senator paul strauss recently visited our parliament to discuss in relation to the district of columbia. quite frankly, when i first heard that 700 000 us citizens in washington do not have the right to elect senators and congressmen or women who actually get to vote on laws, i was baffled. that is more people than live in malta or luxembourg disenfranchised, and whilst the reasons are to be found in history, the situation is a real problem today with local decisions such as funding for family planning for those in financial need being blocked. we in this parliament call out human rights violations across the world. i see no reason not to do so in this case too. the citizens of the district of columbia are denied the basic rights that others living in liberal democracies take for granted. it is time that this 200—year injustice was ended.
mr president, i doubt many people in the european parliament have heard of – or indeed visited – the wonderful north nottinghamshire villages of babworth and scrooby, but they are incredibly significant in the history of us and european relations because they are where, almost 400 years ago, some of the pioneering pilgrim fathers set out from on their historic voyage to the united states, via holland. i want to commend the important work by those at bassetlaw district council, in my constituency, who are bringing that story to life as we approach the 400th anniversary of the voyage of the mayflower. their work is incredibly important in bringing that rich history to life today; a story of discovery, migration, freedom and democracy, values which we reflect on today in voting through this report.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report because we need a new settlement with the usa, not just because of trump’s politics and the way he is attacking the eu and our steel and aluminium industries but also because we don’t have the global rules and governance we need to tackle the challenges we all face, from sustainable development to security, without the usa at the table. so we need to do more than just talk to them. we need to negotiate with the usa: for the climate and to re-regulate globalisation, bringing the usa back into the multilateral game. bilateral horse trading won’t work, and nor will a new, narrow eu-us deal on tariffs and quotas. meps dismissed attempts to conclude a transatlantic trade and investment partnership (ttip) ‘lite’ in 2016 and i am pleased that today’s report has reiterated this firm position, but it’s worth noting, as we’re about to leave the european parliament, how the atmosphere in our eu-us relations has changed in my time in politics. much needs to be done to improve it.
mr president, i’m absolutely delighted to be able to support stronger links between the democratic nations on this side of the atlantic and the united states of america on the other side. but that cause will not be served if the european union insists on putting all of the blame for the recent chilling in relations on the united states of america. how many times have i sat in this very building and listened to my fellow meps talking about american culture: how vulgar it is, how common it is, how awful it is, how much better things would be if everything was run by les énarques and the other elite here in the european union? is it any surprise that president trump and the peoples of the united states of america resent the snobbery and contempt that daily fall upon their ears from people within this chamber? we need to improve relations with the united states of america, but let us start by taking a lead ourselves.
mr president, it is unclear whether we are on the last page of a chapter of world history or the first page of the next chapter. the rise of china has, and is, shifting the economic and political tectonic plates. trump’s response to chinese overcapacity in steel and aluminium amounts to collective punishment, but our opposition to trump’s tariffs must not mean that we let china off the hook. china’s economic strategy poses long-term challenges for jobs and incomes in europe and it is time that we fully recognised it. investment flows and trade flows between china and europe are seriously unbalanced. china has a plan and it is not benevolent. we need a plan of our own to uphold social standards, to re-regulate globalisation and invigorate our economy. the time of laissez-faire economics must end if we want this to be the first page of fairer eu-china relations in the future.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the pension system in the uk is showing increasing inequalities that should alarm us all. there always used to be a trade—off between working in the public and the private sector. the private sector was the wealth creator. there was high risk, but it also provided high rewards. life in the public sector was low risk, by which i mean job security, but also provided rewards that were far lower than those expected in the private sector. it is, after all, the private sector that generates the taxes, the price we pay for a civilised society, and high-grade public services run by first-class public sector workers who knew that, barring economic catastrophe, they had a job for life. now we have a complete reversal of the situation. public sector pensions are protected, incredibly generous and yet horrifyingly unfunded. the money has got to come from somewhere, and no government has been honest enough to say where or even speculate if these promises will be met. private sector pensions in britain were the gold standard. that was until gordon brown raided them in the early blair years and abolished the tax relief that pension funds earned on dividends from stock market investment. that was the end of final salary and many successful private pensions in britain. those now relying on the state pension can look on and see one of the worst in the developed world and one that they will have to work longer to see. in 2011, the coalition government introduced plans that were never in any manifesto voted on to increase the retirement age of women. this has brought about the women against state pension inequality campaign, a cause i completely support. to rush ahead proposals – life—changing plans – without adequate consultation and without giving people a chance to plan their lives was a heartless act, especially in times of economic strife. policy—makers need to take an incredibly thoughtful look at the parlous state of british pensions. it is not good enough that we lose sight of the welfare of those who bequeathed to us a better standard of living only to give them less in return.
madam president, as european citizens grow older and live longer, national government pension schemes are under strain. they suffer from the basic problem that pensions payable today are taken from taxes paid today. policy-makers have taken decisions that the funding gap must come from raising the pension age and increasing mass immigration to supply labour from below. these policies are short-sighted, as the immigrants of today will be the pensioners of tomorrow, and to pay for them would require much more immigration. governments that solve the pensions crisis will be those that enact smarter policies on the three pillars of government, state and corporate and private pensions. public schemes must become investment-based schemes, not tax-matched schemes, and contributions must start much earlier. legislation should guarantee pension portability of corporate pension schemes to help those who move jobs regularly. the tax system must be used to incentivise the growth of private self-managed pension schemes, and the governments must use tax incentives to improve technological advances in administration and fund management. such practical improvements are the basis of improving pensions for the many, not the few.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on fisheries. – mr president, i would like to congratulate my colleague mark demesmaeker, and all meps involved in this excellent report, and i would like to thank the pech committee for the opportunity to work on our contribution to the strategy covering marine plastic litter. when reading the final report, i was delighted to see that the rapporteur and envi colleagues included all the good work done in pech as well as the specific measures i suggested in my opinion. this is a step forward, but we must do more, and now that we are working on the legislative proposal from the commission, i hope all this good work is taken into account. we think about plastic bottles, bags and straws floating around, but i also want to remind colleagues of the damage done by ghost gear: abandoned fishing nets trapping, strangling and drowning untold numbers of marine mammals and birds, as i highlighted by distributing netty the dolphin to many, many members here, and i hope he might have reached the commission as well. my country, the united kingdom, has done a lot in the war against plastics and micro plastics in particular, and since this is a problem that can only be tackled globally, i can only hope that national governments across europe and european citizens continue to cooperate together.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, can i also add my congratulations to mr demesmaeker on an excellent piece of work. i think that it is a very opportune moment to be debating this today, at a time when citizens not only in my own constituency, but across europe and indeed the world are more conscious of the impact which plastic use is having on our environment. there is a clear momentum in tackling these issues, and now is the time to act. there is no denying that plastic is an essential material for our society and economy. however, we need to transform the way in which plastic and plastic products are managed. currently less than 30% of all plastic waste is recycled. indeed, plastic waste accounts for over 80% of marine litter, something which mr flack has referred to. this has a devastating environmental impact, with up to 500 000 tonnes of plastic entering our seas and oceans each year. but i have to ask the question, and we should all be asking the question: somebody has to put that plastic there for others to take out, so there must be a serious educational problem somewhere along the line, since we are not getting the message across. the commission may want to consider further action in pursuit of a circular plastic economy by introducing the recommended new provisions reducing hazardous substances in plastics. in that way we can increase plastic recycling without increasing the risk of emitting hazardous substances into the environment. this is one cause of the problem. everyone tells you that they support this, and they all express fine words, but, unfortunately, we all know that it is extremely expensive. we must be aware that china has closed its doors to europe’s plastic, including other countries in the far east. we have got to find other ways of dealing with the problem. it is our problem and we must deal with it. and we must take care that when we are producing plastic we do not put other substances into bottles or whatever which are not recyclable.
on behalf of the enf group. mr president, with 10 tonnes of plastic produced every second worldwide and more than 9 billion tonnes accumulated since 1950, plastic has become the archetypal waste of the 21st century. production has never stopped growing, to the point that plastic is overflowing our garbage bins and is everywhere: in our oceans, in our soils, in our organisms and even on our plates. today, everyone is aware of this: we are dealing with an unprecedented environmental and health crisis, where the problems have been hidden under the carpet. for example, only 9% of the plastics the world has produced have been recycled, and we are still unable to properly collect all the waste for storage and recycling. the new european strategy is therefore welcome. except it leads to a false good solution, which is to create a new market for reusing used plastic. in practice, this will be to promote the production of a new generation of plastics that can be more easily recycled and reused by companies. we all see that after the nightmare of globalisation and exponential growth, the world is gradually becoming aware of its limitations and perhaps even of its mistakes. the production of too much plastic is a mistake and if we do not separate ourselves from plastics wherever possible, we must agree to a drastic reduction in production. i am quite clear that this report misses that vital objective. it will even help to revive this industry through the misleading concept of the circular economy. let's face it: recycling plastic poses problems, not least because it is not free of toxic chemicals and because of the cost of recycling. that is why i tabled two amendments, which advocate a more coherent approach, with the aim of reducing plastic pollution. the aim is to encourage and tax-privilege substitutes for plastics, such as wood, glass and cardboard. finally, we must be careful about recycling in third countries which do not meet our standards. i shall nevertheless support this report. indeed, against plastic pollution, a strategy is better than no strategy at all.
mr president, this week an ambitious plan to clean up the great pacific garbage patch, or dump, got under way, and it is the americans taking the lead. the technology involved is impressive: a giant scoop and return of the material to land. the biggest challenge they are having to address is to catch the plastic, and not the marine life. this technology though, addresses just one part of the problem, namely dealing with existing build-up. part two of the problem is to stop waterborne plastic, principally deposited in rivers, entering into the marine area. here again the usa, via baltimore’s ‘mr trash wheel’, has shown the way, removing two million pounds of trash from baltimore’s inner harbour since 2014. i cite these two examples because the report appears to be indicating duplication by the european union, which is totally inefficient and totally ineffective, when solutions exist out there. what i would ask the eu to do is to look at the 10 most polluting rivers in the world, none of which is on the european continent, and to consider incentivising or penalising countries there.
mr president, i support efforts to reduce the amount of plastic being used because, for the foreseeable future, a lot of it will end up in the open environment, including the oceans, from which it cannot realistically be collected for recycling or anything else. it is well known that all plastics create fragments as they degrade but we know that fragments of ordinary plastic could accumulate for decades, and perhaps for as long as 100 years as micro-plastics, before they become biodegradable. new plastic goods therefore urgently need to be modified at manufacture so that if they do get into the open environment they will become biodegradable much more quickly than ordinary plastic. this modified type of plastic is known as oxo-degradable or oxo-biodegradable, and the technology is available here and now from an entrepreneurial firm in my own constituency in the uk. i was therefore astonished to see that article 42 of the report calls for a ban on this technology without a vote, and i am angered that foreign meps should seek to extinguish british innovation. the commission has at least gone through the motions of asking for a scientific study on this but, with the greatest respect to the rapporteur, mr demesmaeker, neither he nor his colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety are polymer scientists. they are therefore in no position to come to a conclusion in advance of a scientific report and they have not, in fact, included a single line of evidence in their report to justify such an important decision which they are asking parliament to make. i will be voting against this report because only the british government should have the power to prevent british innovation. if the report succeeds tomorrow it will confirm that the eu favours ideology over science yet again, and that factual evidence is a mere irrelevance. at the very least, voting on this topic should be delayed until a scientific report is to hand. in my own speciality, of uk agriculture, hundreds of hectares of land are covered in plastic as a frost protection. it can be heavily contaminated with soil when it is removed a few months later, making disposal a major problem. if it was oxo-degradable it could be removed to a building and allowed virtually to disappear. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – the argument is that it we should allow it to be evaluated scientifically and it should not be completely disregarded by a committee that is called the ‘committee on the environment’ in the european parliament, the members of which are not scientists.
madam president – good evening, chamber, and thank you very much. i am going to start with two statistics: 56 000 newborn indian babies die from drug—resistant infections every year. 70% to 90% of all travellers to india return with drug—resistant gut bacteria. it has got nothing to do with animal feed: this is down to big corporations which are polluting the environment. now let me go on and just quote from a report produced in the prestigious scientific journal ‘infection’, literally within the last few weeks. they found excessively high levels of antibiotic and anti-fungal resistance in and around the major drug production hub of hyderabad in india – and what’s the link? most of the big drug companies are situated there and a significant amount of their production is exported to european union member states. now, it is the responsibility of the european medicines agency to look at supply chain aspects. nothing is being done to look at bulk manufacturing environmental impact, so can i ask the rapporteur and also the commissioner to please look at that aspect and ensure that it is included in the report.
madam president, agriculture has a part to play in the crucial fight against antimicrobial resistance. i am pleased to report that in the uk, all prophylactic use stopped in 2016 and the livestock industry is moving towards a preventative approach three-pronged by security, vaccination and improved welfare to help replace the use of antibiotics. a target maximum of 50 milligrams of antibiotic per kilo of live weight has been set as an industry challenge. critically important antibiotics used in human medicine have been removed from use in livestock altogether. the breeders of the various species are now concentrating on promoting genes that demonstrate resilience to infections, but this work could be enhanced by modern breeding techniques, which – unfortunately – the green lobby of this house has so far managed to prevent farmers from using. the same green lobby, of course, has persuaded the commission to spend fortunes in money trying to get the farmers to improve the world’s weather. that money would be so much better spent on infrastructure grants for bio-security, and they would yield a real return in the reduction of antibiotic use.
member of the commission. – mr president, i am delighted to attend today’s plenary session and to discuss the implementation of european union legislation on plant protection products. your own—initiative report will make a valuable contribution to our ongoing work on this important topic. i want to start by stressing that we share common concerns and common goals: first of all, to protect citizens’ and animal health; second, to safeguard the environment; and third, to maintain food safety. all three goals are common to all of us. we share these with europeans, who are increasingly interested and engaged in how we produce food and want to ensure this is done in a sustainable way. this is very much the debate at the moment. in response, europeans expect – and rightly so – policy—making to be more open, more inclusive and more transparent. we can only meet these expectations if we work together, learn together from recent challenges, and move forward together. i also want to underline, with these expectations in mind, that the european union has one of the strictest regulatory systems for pesticides in the world, as was just mentioned, but we see a lot of implementation difficulties. the system is based on science and requires a scientific evaluation of every active substance. the commission has removed and will continue to remove active substances from the market if they are not safe. let me stress that since the plant protection products regulation entered into force in 2011, 22 non-approval or non-renewal decisions have been taken, based on scientific evaluation. in fact, approval criteria are so strict that companies sometimes decide not to submit their substances for renewal because they do not expect them to pass this test. substances expected to fall under the cut-off criteria see a particularly low rate of applications for renewal. this is a fact. the commission does not hesitate, either, to restrict the use of certain substances – when justified – to protect non-target organisms like bees, as was just mentioned. the recent decision to ban outdoor use of three neonicotinoid substances is a good example. this, i hope, demonstrates the commission’s commitment – and my personal commitment – but also some of the difficulties that the commission faces. these decisions are often challenged and sometimes do not receive the support of a qualified majority of member states. that is true. before the summer, the commission proposed a ban or restriction on the use of four substances. however, none of them received the necessary support from member states. i want to be clear that the legislation adopted by parliament and the council is very strict. at the same time, there is no such thing as a perfect system, so we should always look to refine it and incorporate lessons learned. i am pleased to read this own-initiative report and see it focuses on the same issues as the commission’s ongoing regulatory fitness and performance (refit) evaluation, which should be finalised in the first half of 2019. we are on the path to finishing our job. another important report will be the special committee on the union’s authorisation procedure for pesticides (pest committee) report, which will be voted on in committee on 6 december and will also feed into the commission’s analysis as we move ahead. i am waiting for the pest committee report. i will actually be very eager to carefully collect and actually look at all contributions on the matter, including those from various stakeholders, academia and ngos in the first place, and the report from the scientific advice mechanism (sam). one point i need to be clear about, however, is that it is premature to envisage specific measures now. the evaluation needs to be finalised first before it can provide a solid evidence base for an appropriate course of action. this is not the only area we are working on. both the fitness check on the general food law and last year’s european citizens’ initiative on glyphosate called for greater transparency in eu risk assessment in the food chain and greater sustainability. i have proposed that the european union general food law be revised with these goals in mind. they touch on several recommendations that you make in the implementation report. the proposal also aims to increase transparency and strengthen risk communication. this is correct. i am confident that it will result in significant benefits and improve citizens’ trust and confidence. trust in science is very important now. there is no doubt that transparency is fundamental and i am very proud to have delivered on this. i was actually recently thanked and reminded of this on this occasion by a voice in this debate. a very active leader was mr burtscher-schaden. he said this sentence to me: ‘in march 2016, you stated that all studies should be disclosed because of an overriding public interest and two years after, in march 2018, you came with a strong legal proposal’. thanks a lot. in other words, i promised and i delivered. now it is up to all of us to move forward with our proposal. the committee on the environment, public health and food safety (envi) committee has begun work on our proposal and the first draft report was published in july. i am pleased that the file is being handled quickly. i call on all of you to support this so that the legislative process can be finished within the current legislative term. from my point of view, it would help us to move in the right direction. beyond this, we are investing via research in a more sustainable future. to support the development of low-risk products of biological origin, the commission has identified research areas under the seventh framework programme and the horizon 2020 programmes and has funded – or will fund – several projects on integrated pest management and biological control. no doubt this will take time. there is also the sustainable use of pesticides directive, which seeks to reduce the risk of pesticides to health and the environment. i know that ms jytte guteland is also preparing a report in this respect and we will await its final conclusions. last year, a commission report found wide variations between different national action plans linked to this directive. this needs to change for all of us. member states are currently reviewing these plans and must include clear, measurable goals and timetables. i call on you to lead focused debates on national action plans in your own individual member states. this would be very helpful. thank you once again for your engagement and your report. i will follow your vote later today closely and i can assure you that your conclusions will be carefully considered in our refit evaluation. i look forward to continuing our joint work to improve transparency, trust and the overall sustainability of our food safety system.
blue-card question. – i was pleased to hear the commissioner say that this debate should be conducted in public and that all scientific studies should be made public. today four green meps are at the european court of justice arguing that the monsanto studies on glyphosate should be in the public domain. i would like to ask mr huitema if he agrees with the commissioner and with me that we should make our policy on the basis of public science and that secret science is not science.
mr president, our natural world is facing armageddon, with the loss of three quarters of insects and the collapse of ecosystems. according to the food and agriculture organisation (fao), at the current rate of soil loss, we have only 60 harvests left. the chemical dependency of our farming system is the root cause of this devastation. we need to change the way we farm, not only for nature’s sake, but because we are destroying the very land we depend on for our survival. the report we are debating highlights significant shortcomings in the approval process for pesticides and the control in their use across the eu. the commission is handing out so—called ‘emergency waivers’ for farmers to use pesticides that we know are damaging to human health or the environment. there are also clear conflicts of interest here: with industry dictating much of the approval process, too much power is in the hands of agribusiness. organic farmers everywhere are showing the way towards a truly sustainable farming system that provides a secure livelihood and a healthy future for all of us and for the ecosystem we depend on.
mr president, it is very important that we have a science—based, evidence—based approval process, and we do. this is a very rigorous process. regulation (ec) no 1107/2009 is a very robust regulation and it’s simply not true to say that the precautionary principle is clearly not being applied in the context of risk analysis regarding pesticides. no doubt, there are problems with the implementation in member states, but the answer is not new regulation, it is actually the enforcement of the regulation we have. too often in this place we decide we’re going to create new regulation simply because we are not properly enforcing the regulation we have. that is very bad practice and we should stop. we need to enforce the regulation we have, and a part of that regulation is the possibility of emergency uses. we need the flexibility. we cannot have a one-size-fits-all answer for the whole of the eu. we have different conditions, we have climate changes coming along, so it is not national governments flouting the regulation; it is national governments responding to the specific needs of their farmers and their agriculture, and i support that.
author. – mr president, it’s unclear exactly what happened on 13 august this year in a northwest province of uganda during political campaigning for a by—election. president museveni’s vehicle was indeed attacked but lethal force was used against protesters. opposition politicians such as robert kyagulanyi were detained and allegedly even tortured. but this lack of clarity over the facts does not mask the definite increase in concern expressed over increased repression of the political opposition in uganda. the deterioration of the fundamental freedoms of expression, assembly and association in uganda is indeed worrying, as are president museveni’s efforts now to entrench his power by changing the law to allow a president to hold office over the age of 75. over the next three years before the elections in 2021, the international community must watch closely and call on the museveni government to investigate all human rights abuses, to uphold the rule of law and freedom of speech, and to fight hard to prevent election fraud and corruption.
author. – mr president, for some time now my delegation has been very hesitant to call for the trade relationship we have with myanmar to be reviewed. but today, following this latest development, we find ourselves in a situation where we can no longer simply say that myanmar is a country that deserves the trade access we provide to it. there needs to be a fundamental review of that relationship. furthermore, the united nations today has provided us with a report which is very clear in its findings. as part of the international community and as a set of institutions, europe must ensure that it provides its support to the international community. so, at united nations level, we must do the right thing and ensure that the voices we have at the table there are not allowing myanmar to go unchecked. our voices must be the loudest at that table. (applause)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, high representative, other members have already outlined the case of myanmar journalists wa lone and kyaw soe oo, who were sentenced to seven years’ imprisonment on 3 september for investigating and reporting on human rights violations in rakhine state. wa lone had been writing in-depth stories on sensitive subjects including land grabs by the powerful military and the murder of prominent politician ko ni. it’s appalling that he’s not even able to see his new-born daughter. kyaw soe oo worked on an investigative story about myanmar’s plan to harvest the crops of rohingya farmers who fled to bangladesh. he also reported how some buddhists were enforcing local-level segregation in central rakhine. and it was only because of these brave journalists that the world got to know about the severe injustices and violations of human rights. collecting information, high representative, is not a crime, therefore i am deeply disappointed by aung san suu kyi, who has defended the court’s decision to jail wa lone and kyaw soe oo. with this resolution, parliament is not just urging the authorities in myanmar to release immediately and unconditionally the two journalists, but also urging the high representative and the commission to ensure that wherever we have harassment of journalists we take action in terms of our trade agreements, and that we take action in this case. i think it’s important that in myanmar we actually have a review of the archaic laws that facilitate these attacks. i hope, high representative, that you will join us in this call: we do need to act now.
mr president, one year on the myanmar government has failed to take any credible steps to investigate the crimes against rohingya and hold those with blood on their hands to account. instead they are focused on targeting two brave journalists who dare to expose the military’s atrocities. i welcome the icc ruling that it has jurisdiction over myanmar’s deportation of the rohingya population to bangladesh. it is a crucial step towards ending impunity. however myanmar’s military leaders have been accused of acting with genocidal intent. therefore a referral to the icc for the full scope of human rights violations is rohingya’s main hope for justice. the international community may take responsibility, must take responsibility, and i ask you, madam high representative, to take the lead. failing to do so sends the signal that myanmar can continue to commit these atrocities against the rohingya and other ethnic minorities in northern myanmar. the longer we wait, the more time myanmar officials have to destroy evidence in rakhine state. we must take a united stand now.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i was very happy to hear about the release of kem sokha. for us to know that a political prisoner is out of arbitrary detention is always a relief. although this development is positive, the situation in cambodia is still extremely serious, given the gross disregard of its international human rights obligations and the serious attacks on democracy, namely the complete silencing of political opposition along with the broader climate of shrinking space for civil society. i’m particularly worried by the situation of human rights defenders, especially in light of the charges against five members of the cambodian human rights and development association. as europeans, we must always be aware of the violations conducted by our own companies in cambodia. attacks against indigenous peoples, including land-grabbing, affect many communities. it’s our responsibility to develop a trade policy that prevents corporations from harming these less developed countries and fragile states. following the eu’s decision to suspend direct budget support to cambodia, i wish to remind this house, and the eu in general, of the importance of dialogue and people—to—people contact in these contexts.
madam president, well this new measure will establish an improved easy-to-use version of the your europe web portal. so i was very pleased to vote in favour today as the enhanced your europe portal will help citizens and organisations quickly find the information they need to carry out key activities across the eu, such as starting a business or obtaining proof of residence. the socialists and democrats took the lead on parliament’s input and secured an excellent result, including better access for disabled users and more security and safety in relation to personal data. but it is very worrying that the uk government has no idea, as in so many other areas, how to replicate such an effective tool for individuals and for businesses after brexit.
mr president, i am obliged to make a very short representation. last week, as we were launching – on the platform of the anti—racism and diversity intergroup within the european parliament in brussels – a toolkit designed to help member states avoid any islamophobic content in their messaging, outside the european parliament there appeared a huge islamophobic poster, officially sponsored on behalf of parliament, giving a message about immigration. that poster is against the very toolkit that we were raising, in every way possible. i request that it be removed with immediate effect. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i propose that we have a full debate on the audiovisual media services directive, which is due to be voted on tomorrow. this directive is very important as it will regulate various aspects, from enforcing eu quotas to how many adverts can be on television in a day. is there any aspect of our lives that the eu will not regulate? on-demand services like netflix and amazon prime will be obligated to ensure that 30% of their content is made up of european work. this legislation has also been extended to apply to video—sharing platforms, which will affect companies such as youtube and, potentially, twitch. they are also targeting social media services, such as facebook, instagram and snapchat. furthermore, it is creating an eu regime whereby any media service may be forced to financially contribute to another government. this is an extremely broad piece of legislation that could be highly damaging to the audiovisual media sector. therefore, i am requesting full parliamentary scrutiny by way of a debate this evening.
mr president, in 2017 the world learned of horrific persecution of gay men in chechnya. 18 months later we must not forget their struggle. sadly, the situation has not improved greatly and we should all be aware that civil society organisations are still working to evacuate people from the region. oyub titiev, the chechen director of the rights group memorial, who first denounced the attacks on gay men in the region, is still in pre—trial detention. his case demonstrates how hostile the environment in chechnya has become for human rights defenders. i urge the authorities to immediately and unconditionally release titiev. ironically, the chechen strongman leader, ramzan kadyrov, and officials at russia’s justice ministry have the audacity to say that the rights of the lgbt community were not violated in chechnya because there were no gays there. more than one year after the russian—backed purges, there has shamefully been no criminal prosecutions for the deadly violence. meanwhile, the russian—chechen singer, zalim bakaev, a popular gay icon who disappeared on 8 august 2017, has still not been found alive or dead. he was a star on the rise and the world is a darker place for his disappearance and alleged torture. we should also remember that it is not only gay men who face hostile environments and human rights violations in russia and elsewhere. the situation of trans people, for example, worldwide, is appalling. these violations of lgbtiq are happening in all countries, in many different faith communities, including european christian societies and members on the far right have failed to understand that the right—wing dup in northern ireland, for example, is both a homophobic and anti—abortion party.
madam president, it has important ramifications when it comes to the situation of women in rural areas, such as cumbria in my northwest england constituency. indeed, the theme of this year’s un conference on the status of women was precisely focused on this topic, as the situation of women in rural areas requires specific policy responses at all levels. our priority must be to uphold the rights of women, girls and lgbtiq+ people in rural areas. their role in crucial sectors, such as the fight against climate change, is extremely important. in many cases they are also at the forefront of economic and social innovation, yet their specific situation is not taken into account by many policy makers. in this respect, i’m proud of the 2014 european parliament report on the green employment initiative, which i worked on from a femm committee perspective. we ignore the contribution and wisdom of 21st century rural women at our peril. those who live and work in rural, mountainous and remote areas are often the problem solvers and the change makers, but they need equal access to resources, including the internet and finance.
madam president, on 12 august, my former reading borough council park ward colleague, christine borgars, who had given great service to the community, died after a long illness. in april, when christine and i last met, she said to me that if she lived in a civilised country, she could choose to end her own life when it became intolerable because it was, after all, her life. as her time approached, she expressed the same view. christine and many others have expressed this view to me over the years and, on their behalf, i raise this issue again in this house. every day, terminally ill people face suffering that they would choose to end, but are denied the right to die with dignity by most member states. the right to life is recognised as a human right. to live according to one’s own beliefs is recognised as a human right. it is high time that the right to choose to die with dignity was recognised as a fundamental human right of every european.
madam president, however people voted in the 2016 referendum, they’re entitled to know what’s happening, but a withdrawal agreement is still nowhere near being agreed. there never was going to be the mythical good deal offered by the european union. it has absolutely no incentive to offer one. some say that ms may is totally incompetent, but maybe she knows exactly what she’s doing. ms may is a remainer who does not want to leave. she leads a political class that does not want to leave. at the last minute she will pull a withdrawal agreement from the hat whereby we leave in name, but not in reality, and it will be trumpeted as a great diplomatic triumph. britain will have been betrayed. brexit will have been betrayed. the real fight to free britain from the european union will then begin in earnest, and it will be led by the uk independence party.
madam president, in liverpool, which was the 2010 european capital of culture, a poignant piece of artwork has been consistently damaged by racist vandals this summer. the artwork lists the names of 34 361 migrants who have died trying to reach safety in europe. it stood as a reminder of the horrifying risks that people are forced to undertake in order to seek safety and a sustainable life. this memorial was desecrated by right-wing thugs. since the referendum in june 2016, there has been a 57% increase in reports of hate crime in the uk. in greater manchester, in my constituency, a third of people recently surveyed have reported being the victims of hateful abuse based on their ethnicity. last week, however, at the fundamental rights forum in vienna, i met a successful young business student. he was one of the lucky ones: a syrian refugee who did not drown as he crossed the mediterranean. he is building a new life with the support of ngos and the community which has welcomed him.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, as the moment of truth approaches for the brexit negotiations in a couple of weeks’ time, i have to say that brexiteers are dismayed at the way that our prime minister has acted. i’ve got to hand it to you, mr juncker: your negotiators are very much better than ours. the previously undiscussed issue of the irish border, never a problem at any point during the referendum, has very effectively been weaponised by barnier. but of course, this has got nothing to do with the good friday agreement. nothing to do with the peace process whatsoever. no, barnier is much cleverer than that. this is all to do with making sure that the united kingdom stays with the european regulatory framework. the one thing barnier has been scared of from the start is us leaving and us becoming competitive. sadly, the british prime minister has fallen hook, line and sinker for this, and we find ourselves now going into this next summit in a very weak position. there is of course a better approach to all of this that would satisfy democratically both the brexit vote and, i think, the demands of german industry and exporters. don’t forget what an important marketplace we are. your exporters call us ‘treasure island’, so many motor cars and so much wine and belgian chocolate do you sell us. we should go for a simple free-trade deal. for 20 years here, everybody from commissioner kinnock to valéry giscard d’estaing has said to me: if you want to leave political union and have a free- trade deal, that’s fine by us, we just need a prime minister who actually understands it. i know the european commission would not necessarily want this, because they’re trying to use the brexit vote as a means of saying that leaving this club comes at a price, but i do believe it would be possible. but we get to the heart of what this european union is when we see the behaviour of the unelected bureaucrats, people like mr tusk, whose behaviour at salzburg was arrogant, low—grade and pretty vulgar in every respect. but that is what you get when you design a form of government that gives power without accountability. nobody voted for these guys, and nobody can get rid of these guys, they can do what the hell they like, and increasingly the nature of this club is authoritarian, taking away voting rights from hungary, poland and who knows next. there is one little victory though that i’m pleased with. for a decade here i have noticed that that centralising authoritarian tone began to sound very like the old soviet union, with the concept of limited sovereignty of individual nation states. i have even talked in the past about the ‘volkerkerker’, the old austro-hungarian prison of nations, and to see the british foreign secretary jeremy hunt now using that language means that we have shifted the centre of gravity, we have shifted this debate. i know many of you here still think that we’re a hostage and that you’re going to demand some extraordinary ransom from us. we are not. we are a free people. under the right leadership we’d say to you: let’s have a free-trade deal, or we would simply walk away. (applause)
mr president, as we approach the october council, let me once again make some things clear to both mr barnier and the member states who continue to use northern ireland and the impossible demands of the backstop as a sword hanging over the outcome of the negotiations. the idea, as proposed in the backstop, that we would allow northern ireland to become some sort of semi-detached part of the united kingdom is both offensive and outrageous. protecting the constitutional and economic integrity of the united kingdom is a red line that cannot be broken or bent. i say to the eu as well as my own government, that when it comes to the stability of the united kingdom and the security of northern ireland’s place in it, mark my words, we are not bluffing. the irish sea checks proposed by mr barnier, would put in place customs and regulatory differences within the united kingdom, cutting our province adrift and creating a border within the united kingdom from day one. mr juncker, you may only be concerned about the irish republic and the dublin government, with your ‘ireland first’ comment, but i am concerned about the jobs and prosperity of families in northern ireland, whose economy is structurally linked to the rest of the united kingdom. the sooner brussels realises this, the sooner we can get to a place where a sensible trade negotiation as possible.
blue-card question. – thank you for accepting the question. you seem really outraged about a lot of things. do you not understand that maybe the heads of government are reticent about taking on these noble ideas you have, because actually they have to be elected by the people in their countries, and these opinion polls you speak about are not relevant to those heads of government? do you not see that?
madam president, hearing jeremy hunt use the far right trope of associating the european union with the soviet union is an abuse of history and an insult to those who suffered under soviet repression. i’d like to offer my apology on behalf of the many british people who respect the brave struggle for freedom fought by our friends in central europe and the baltic states. for many countries, the eu has supported their path away from authoritarianism and towards prosperity. our current cooperation in peace, democracy and human rights celebrates that achievement. coming from a country that has always prided itself on diplomatic prowess, for me the speech was part of an unfolding national tragedy. this is where the ignorance of brexit has led us. insulting our friends, misrepresenting our history, indulging our fantasies of a return to the colonial past. but the brexiteers are running out of steam. in an equally lacklustre speech yesterday dominic raab claimed that democracy is sacrosanct. so i’m waiting for him to join me in calling for a criminal inquiry into ‘vote leave’, of which he was a board member, and into russian interference in the brexit campaign. true democracy cannot be based on deceit and an empty prospectus; it requires that british people make a choice on the deal as negotiated so that they can decide whether this is the brexit they voted for. when it comes to brexit democracy demands a people’s vote. (applause)(the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)).
blue-card question. – thank you, molly. you and i will of course disagree, but we have always had a courteous exchange going right back to pembrokeshire back in 2001. in your call for a second referendum, do you not realise, with respect, that the goalposts have moved? people like myself, who campaigned against the european institutions for the last 22 years, were warning about ever closer union, warning about qualified majority voting on taxation – as mr weber often calls for – and warning about eu militarisation. this has, of course, all been discussed since the referendum result. is it not the case now that were britain to change its mind, foolishly, we would actually be going towards a federal model?
blue-card answer. – i agree that times have moved on. we’ve learned that the brexit referendum was fought on the basis of cheating, criminality, manipulation and psychological operations. the goalposts have definitely moved, because we now know that the people are waking up to the fact that they were lied to, the fact that this cannot be sorted out in an afternoon, that we haven’t got trade deals, that we’re heading for a calamity. therefore, i completely agree with you. the goalposts have moved, and that is the biggest justification there can be for a new referendum.
madam president, if i may take the opportunity. the belfast agreement, also often referred to as the good friday agreement, states ‘it is hereby declared that northern ireland, in its entirety, remains part of the united kingdom and shall not cease to be so without consent of a majority of the people of northern ireland’. this is the principle of consent that is the heart of the belfast agreement. nothing can camouflage that. let me make it very clear to this house – and i have heard comments here this morning that i wished i would not have heard – the people of northern ireland, from all backgrounds, from all persuasions, do not want to ever, ever return to their past history. there has to be a solution found that ensures that that never happens in the future. that is the challenge. that is what politicians are here for. so i was very saddened this morning when i heard mr juncker say it is ‘ireland first’. i’m sorry, i am from northern ireland, and i say it is the united kingdom and it is northern ireland that must be first.
madam president, chaos and confusion reign when it comes to brexit. the british government is torn apart by its internal divisions on the matter and is reverting to the tired old game of blaming brussels for its own internal divisions. it is staggering, gradually zigzagging, towards a very damaging brexit, a costly brexit, a job-destroying brexit, a rights-threatening brexit, a brexit that bears no resemblance whatsoever to what was promised by the leave campaign at the time of the referendum. in those circumstances, it is not surprising that more and more british citizens, especially those who voted leave, are saying ‘wait a minute, this is not what we were promised, this is not what we were told, and it’s damn well not what i voted for’. the labour party at its congress last week decided that it will vote against any such damaging withdrawal agreement on a brexit deal. if that doesn’t bring down this government and cause a general election, then we will support other options, including the possibility of a new referendum, a referendum on the actual brexit deal. people have a right to stand up for a proper democratic process. people have a right to say ‘this is not what we were told; this is not what we were promised’. the issue of brexit in britain is not settled, there is still a struggle going on to make sure we are not led over a cliff edge. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, under rule 190(4), i ask members to adjourn this vote as there has, so far as i can tell, been no impact assessment on the need for a hard border in the middle of lake lugano. the proposal extends the eu’s customs area but does not address the border, to police it. we need to know if the commission will apply its northern ireland approach and demand a hard border. switzerland is, after all, neither in the customs union nor fully inside the single market. (applause)
mr president, my political group are generally in agreement with everything i say, sir. (laughter) (applause)
mr president, well sir, it seems there is one rule for northern ireland and one rule for switzerland and italy. how strange. (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, let me be unequivocal on behalf of my group. we are not against voluntary guidelines and we are not against guiding principles, but we don’t think they are fit for purpose. we want binding instruments at the global level, because we have seen what happens to guiding principles, we have seen what has happened to the environment in ecuador, we have seen what happens to workers in bangladesh, we have seen how global companies still operate on the basis of corruption in many parts of the world, and we are not prepared to tolerate it. we want to ensure that we have a system in place at the global level where we can protect workers, the environment and consumers against the power of transnational corporations. it trips off the tongue easily, doesn’t it, when we say that europe is a europe of values. well, if we’re a europe of values in geneva, we should be leading the way, not being dragged, as we were, slowly into this negotiation, but leading the way. i welcome where the commission has now got itself to, but we should have been there before. i understand the problems we have with some of the member states, but we should also acknowledge that some member states are starting to unilaterally lead the way. the fact that france now has a corporate duty of vigilance law, the netherlands has the child labour due diligence law, and even the uk with its modern slavery act, all show that countries are slowly coming round to the right way of thinking on this issue. as bernd lange rightly mentioned, at the eu level we are now in a position where we have the conflict minerals regulation, which contains binding due diligence. this parliament says that, even if nothing happens at the un, we should be extending that to the garment sector to make sure we have due diligence in the whole garment chain. i am pleased to say that we are also slowly making progress on our trade deals. the—eu japan fta includes, for the first time, a chapter on corporate governance. in relation to investment, while i have supported investment protection for industry, i equally think it’s time for us to ensure that investors meet their legitimate obligation to protect the folk that they meant to serve as institutions.
mr president, as we all know, the eu is committed to using external trade as a weapon, a tool to further eu policy. but trade agreements are supposed to be about trade and to mutual advantage. trade agreements are not there to signal virtue backed up by economic threats. the recent agreement with canada, took up to seven years to negotiate. it was dragged out by the eu’s attempt to impose conditions that had little or nothing to do with trade. and in passing, i have to say, fortunately, the topic of the athabasca oil sands was glossed over, otherwise the eu would still be negotiating today, and we’d be into eight years of negotiations. in the meantime, profit and jobs would suffer. it’s bad enough when the eu tries on this tactic with rich countries, but these tactics are especially damaging when used against poor countries, and we’ve seen this with sri lanka, a country that had suffered civil war followed by a tsunami. nevertheless, sri lanka had its trade preferences removed, entirely for political reasons. human rights is one thing, extraterritoriality and the politicisation of trade is quite another.
mr president, today’s questions on the un binding treaty come down to a very simple point: is the eu serious about responsible business conduct? by putting sustainable development at the core of the eu’s trade strategy in 2015, the commission created high expectations, but what we’ve seen is the eu working actively for global rights for investors, but dragging its heels on binding human rights rules on multinationals. within this un initiative lies an opportunity to deliver a real trade policy for all, but why wait for global rules? we could lead the field by introducing horizontal mandatory due diligence to clean up all of our global supply chains, guaranteeing that european consumers and businesses are not inadvertently supporting human rights violations here or elsewhere. europe urgently needs a renewed mission to connect to voters. let it be for decency. let it be for rights for people and rules for business.
mr president, putting in place binding rules that oblige companies to respect human rights is urgent. in many countries around the world transnational corporations take advantage of the soft legal framework that applies to their activities so as to favour their interests over human rights. this is also the direction of travel regarding theresa may’s hard brexit. the land rights of indigenous people in particular are continuously violated and our own european companies are among the worst when it comes to human rights records in foreign countries. i am saddened to see how difficult it is to reconcile the business world and human rights. it’s urgent that we revise our business models and build a fairer and more inclusive paradigm, for instance through the development of social enterprises. businesses should work for the common good, for the many and not for the interests of the few. i urge the european union and the member states to ensure the process for a binding treaty on business and human rights is kept alive, and to genuinely fight for the primacy of rights over private interests. women, workers and indigenous peoples must be protected.
mr president, commissioner, i could not support your words more today. we really are, as a parliament, facing the grave danger that our text will leave us open to misrepresentation. our intentions and actions must be to support international efforts for peace. the world’s worst humanitarian crisis, according to the united nations – yemen is a theatre of conflict where almost every immediate neighbour has found itself drawn in due to remote interests sowing discord and destabilising not just yemen itself, but the entire neighbourhood. saudi arabia finds itself targeted with missiles, houthis utilise public facilities to have cover; all the time remotely supported and directed. the propaganda machine seeks to distort and detract, so that the world is misinformed. within that vacuum grows extremism. the ultimate agenda of which is to cause chaos. that should not be our agenda, and neither should we allow anybody to misrepresent our position.
mr president, ‘the state is not in control of its natural resources. the state is simply handcuffed and cannot do anything’. this statement was made by ahmed ghaleb, former head of the yemeni tax authority two days ago. it sums up the disastrous situation in this benighted country. let’s be clear: this is a proxy war between iran and the saudi-emirati alliance, with only the yemeni people suffering from indiscriminate attacks. so many decisions on yemen, yet few taken by yemenis themselves. so little interest shown by the international community in local political groups, apart from the discredited hadi regime, has seen the splintering of normally homogenous groups. the southern movement, which was a broad church, has been marginalised and split into so many groups that what could have been a stabilising force has become a group of warring factions. on sunday, seven people were killed through intra-houthi fighting. we must engage honestly with local political leaders, respecting their concerns. peace can only be built up from the base of local society in yemen and we should not prejudge political outcomes before genuine discussion. finally, the yemeni rial is at an all-time low. demonstrations are planned throughout the country as ordinary people rise up against this further disaster. the crash of the rial can be blamed firmly on the international community and particularly the gulf alliance. if there is civil unrest, we can anticipate further loss of life, and the people to suffer will be the ordinary people of yemen. hence, all solutions should be on the table.
mr president, this tragic war has been ‘escalating virtually on all fronts. the level of confidence is at its lowest and [the] human and humanitarian cost is ever rising’. these are the words of the un special envoy for yemen, martin griffiths, to the security council last month. they sum up the continuing disaster unfolding in yemen in a war that has tragically claimed the lives of at least 10 000 people since fighting broke out in 2015. furthermore it is estimated that a staggering 22 million – 75% of the population – are in urgent need of humanitarian aid often encompassing the most basic of needs such as access to food, water and medicine. the saudi—led offensive, particularly since its push this summer into hodeidah region, has worsened the humanitarian crisis. according to estimates from the charity save the children, cases of cholera have increased by 170% since june, which in a country that has seen its public health facilities – largely as a result of bombing of hospitals – decimated, poses the real threat of a worse and more deadly epidemic. it is clear that talks must now resume urgently, not only to find a lasting resolution to the conflict but also ensure ways of alleviating the humanitarian disaster situation. in this regard, it is of paramount importance that the houthi faction engages in the un—led process in geneva. i will also re—echo my previous concerns regarding the conduct of the saudi—led coalition in its air campaign offensive and also the use by houthis of human shields, claiming so many lives of civilians. the incident that saw 40 children killed in a bus attack in saada last month is in the... (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, the protracted civil war in yemen has gone on for far too long. internal conflict, exacerbated by regional powers, has had an unbearably high human cost. only in august, 40 children were killed by a saudi air strike using a bomb supplied by the united states. the uk government continues to approve munitions knowing that they are being used in such crimes. it is brutality of the highest order that saudi arabia and iran are using the people of yemen as a field for their indirect proxy war. both sides must stop their operations and use their influence to bring their proxies and allies around the negotiation table. as for the uk and us, we must seriously examine our role in such grave abuses of crimes of war. our role cannot be ignored any longer.
mr president, it is high time that we debated yemen given the neglect of this crisis politically and financially by the european union and the member states. this is extremely concerning given that it is one of the world’s worst humanitarian crises. two million people displaced, continued famine and cholera outbreaks exacerbate an already dire situation. i believe europe has been compromised because of the arms sales to saudi arabia, including by the uk’s tory government, and it risks being complicit in possible war crimes in yemen. i believe we really have to stand up in a meaningful way and stop selling arms to saudi arabia. along with other colleagues, i deeply regret that the geneva consultations had to be abandoned last saturday, so i have some questions for the commissioner. three points. firstly, we need a ceasefire to stop the killings and move from hostilities to negotiation. what has the eeas done to find a political solution to the conflict? secondly, what are the outcomes of the political consultations on regional issues with iran on yemen? and thirdly, any peace deal focusing on the north, and not the east and the south, will not succeed in the long term in finding a political solution. how will you ensure yemen’s future territorial integrity?
mr president, the humanitarian situation in yemen continues to deteriorate and has now become one of the worst in the world. recently, the un special envoy for yemen stated his concern about the possibility of an imminent famine. this extremely worrying situation must be urgently addressed by the european union and the member states. france and my country, the uk, have consistently been called out in this chamber for their arms sales to the saudi-led coalition. their complicity in this war is unacceptable. they must be held accountable for their contribution to the us extra-judicial killings programme through the sharing of intelligence. the eu must continue to link up efforts with the united nations and support a political solution achieved through multilateral diplomacy, with all parties involved sitting around the table. in the meantime, the eu must also put all its efforts into finding temporary humanitarian solutions for the people who are suffering on the ground from a war they did not choose.
mr president, i recognise and fully support all initiatives that aim at improving air quality and life for european citizens. however, i strongly oppose the content of ms dalli’s report as, in order to combat climate change, it imposes extreme reductions in emissions standards for new cars and new commercial vehicles in europe. i would like to remind colleagues that eu measures to reduce co2 emissions, even if fully implemented, would have a trivial effect on the earth’s climate, and even if they are implemented, it is unlikely that other major emitters such as china and india will follow suit. several global studies have shown that the costs of implementing policies to mitigate climate change significantly exceed any possible benefit. for this, and several other scientific reasons, my colleagues and i refute anthropogenic climate change, and disagree with the current eu energy and climate policy.
blue-card question. – thank you for accepting the question. you speak about changes being made to the automotive sector and state control and provision to ensure this happens. in your vision of the future, do you see a situation where the countries outside of the eu that may not apply the same rigorous policies as yourself to the climate – are still using petrol and diesel and so on – will eu manufacturers have a loophole where they can manufacture to export to them or will your state control of this clamp down on those exports?
mr president, i would like to pay tribute to my good colleague, ms miriam dalli, for her excellent work on this because it is very, very important that parliament sends an extremely clear signal to the commission that we want the highest ambition when it comes to co2 emissions from cars. we have to get real. i listened with interest to the previous speaker saying that ambition has basically reached the point that it needs to. we have to get real about where this transition is going. it is inevitable that zero emissions transport will be the solution to the problems we face, not just on climate but also, of course, on air quality. at the moment our own car manufacturers here in the eu are investing seven times more in china than they are doing in production here when it comes to electric vehicles. if we decide to carry on with business as usual, if we decide to carry on with existing technology, we will effectively destroy our own domestic car industry. let me be clear, i am talking from a position where my own car industry is coming under existential threat in the form of brexit, but of course when it comes to legislation on co2 the targets that we are talking about are not unachievable. under a 40% reduction, we are looking at 10% penetration for electric vehicles across the eu – 10%. are we really saying that 9 in 10 cars in 2030 will still be petrol and diesel driven and that this would somehow represent a success? we have to be real. we have to go for the highest ambition because this is good not just for the environment but for consumers and our own industry and jobs.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, although i doubt many citizens will be glued to their screens watching this debate, we have done some important work in agreeing on a series of legislative proposals to update the vat system, which we have been working with on a temporary basis since 1993. this clear and streamlined tax-raising regime should play an important part in reducing vat fraud, which currently costs the public purse around eur 50 billion a year. so it’s worth celebrating this unique, unified tax regime across our union. it is also flexible, allowing member states to choose how they use reduced rates to incentivise their own political preferences, while ensuring that, overall, rates are equal. at a time when the eu27 are demonstrating unprecedented cooperation on vat, it is a matter of sadness and concern to me, as a british member, that there is still no clarity on the vat regime for british businesses after march next year. this poses a serious risk to small businesses, and i would urge the prime minister to end this uncertainty by making a definitive decision to stay with the unified tax regime.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i am going to say a couple of things that won’t normally be heard in this chamber but i feel it’s a good start: tax is theft and competition is good. we have to accept that taxation is required in order to run a state and we have to have a minimum of taxation because that is the best way to get people to work for their money and for business to thrive. but if you wish to get the best out of businesses, give them a competitive environment instead of harmonising across the eu with one rate of tax. why not have localised tax, where different people have different sales taxes and people can compete to see which environment is best for business, which one entices people to set up companies, and what do the people in the area want: jobs or control and regulation? the whole concept of harmonising taxes across the eu is entirely against business, against competition, totally undemocratic and totally against the nation-state and all its values.
mr president, vat is the greatest nightmare for any small business. it is an overcomplicated imposition on hardworking entrepreneurs trying to build their businesses and employ their fellow citizens in gainful employment. we welcome these simplifications, but they are simply not enough. there should be less obsession by the eu with loss of revenue and more concern about the damage to businesses and employment caused by vat. all i hear is whining about loss of revenue from politicians more interested in oiling the wheels of this place with other people’s money. tax should be decided by member states, competition encouraged and taxes lowered. britain should not stick with the unified tax regime after brexit. the brexit dividend should be to get rid of vat – an eu tax – introduce a sales tax at 6%, like the united states of america, and leave the money in the pockets of the citizens.
mr president, congratulations to both the rapporteurs, who are tackling vat fraud and ensuring that member states set vat rates at a consistent level. not only will this affect citizens’ daily lives, but it will also reduce compliance costs for businesses by up to eur 1 billion. however, just a note of caution: this depends on how quickly the governments of the 28 member states approve and implement this agreement. large—scale vat fraud means eur 50 billion lost from national budgets each year because of the complexities with differing rules – money that could have been better spent on housing, better schools and improved health-care facilities. however, national tax authorities on their own have lacked the resources to tackle cross—border vat fraud thoroughly. one big flaw is the system of vat refund for exported goods. far too often, this system has been abused, leading to carousel vat fraud. this can be addressed only if we have a clear, automated, definitive and eu—wide vat system. particularly where there are disputes, a simple eu—wide vat dispute resolution mechanism is urgently needed. therefore, i welcome today the fact that agreement has been reached in the council to move towards a strong, harmonised, definitive vat system. an important step that this report is proposing is to enable member states to reduce rates up to 5%, and for one item they can reduce it to even lower than 5%. this is hugely important. the so—called tampon tax, whereby vat on this product can now be zero percent, is an issue that this house has been fighting for and prioritising as a means of addressing poverty. it is therefore essential that the council accelerates … (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, it is not just the rise in neofascism and neofascist violence that’s the problem, it is political violence from both sides, including far left groups, such as antifa, who are known for violent disturbances. britain’s own labour party has been accused of anti-semitism, and, may i say, the snp (scottish national party) has tried to close down many businesses in scotland undemocratically because they didn’t agree with them. so that wasn’t particularly democratic. the rise of extremist politics in the eu has been caused by the eu itself. the eu has ignored so-called populist parties like ukip, the five star movement and the swedish democrats, and has left the doors open to unlimited number of people competing for jobs with ordinary working people. what do you expect if the eu tries to replace the nationalistic working class with a homogeneous bunch of people from abroad who will support the eu? they believe a vote for them. chancellor merkel opens the doors to everyone. what do you expect? people will defend their jobs and their homes, and they don’t want their religions or anything else changed. they want their homes and their freedoms; you can’t stop them defending that. (the president cut off the speaker)
blue-card question. – what you said is very interesting, but would you perhaps not agree with me that it doesn’t matter from which side violence comes, whether it be the left or the right, bearing in mind that the national socialists in germany in the 1930s were socialists? they came from socialism, as did stalin’s mob. so, quite frankly, in all this thing about fascism – they are always waving this word about – what about just making sure we don’t have violence on any side and settle everything democratically? wouldn’t you agree with me that left—wing authoritarianism is just as bad as right wing authoritarianism? at the moment the labour party in britain are having tremendous troubles.
mr president, during ramadan, i attended a wonderful interfaith community event at didsbury mosque in my constituency. taste ramadan was on example of the we stand together movement that has grown up in response to the attacks on our multicultural 21st century society. on 20 october, activists from stand up to racism and unite against fascism will stand in solidarity with the mosque community against an intimidating protest planned by the fascist english defence league. but this is not an isolated incident. we have seen similar neo—fascists targeting communities across europe because of their religion, race, ethnicity or sexuality. we mustn’t forget that the results of fascism in europe are tragic. in 2016, a week before the uk referendum, a nazi—inspired terrorist murdered the pro—eu labour mp, jo cox, while shouting ‘britain first’. jo was the mother of two young children and an inspiration to many. i was privileged last week to attend the naming of a square in brussels in honour of her memory. so let’s remember jo’s message as we continue her work: we have more in common. (the speaker declined to take blue-card questions from mr coburn and mr sośnierz under rule 162(8))
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, eu citizenship is fundamental for our millions of citizens. it is a shared identity in addition to our national or regional identities which unlocks the possibilities of exploring this great continent, allowing free movement and the opportunity to live, work and study in other eu countries. political rights as basic as the right to vote or stand as a candidate sit at the very heart of our shared european values. since the eu referendum, we brits are perhaps more aware than most of the value of eu citizenship, since we fear we will lose it. however, while we might share equal treatment protection in the workplace and in access to university places, we do not have equal treatment in that most fundamental bedrock of our societies: the right to democratic participation. citizens who have taken advantage of the freedom of movement from five member states, notably my own, often find themselves completely disenfranchised of national representation. they are unable to vote in national elections, both in their home country and in their adopted country. while i have sympathy for those who argue the logic that citizens who live in another member state may not be affected by domestic laws or taxes made in their home country, this complete lack of national voting rights for eu citizens who have moved using eu treaty rights is incompatible with our european values. moreover, today we have a further complication – in fact, we have lots of complications in relation to brexit – as we will see eu citizens, either uk nationals in the rest of the eu or eu citizens in the uk, disenfranchised on purpose. these eu citizens, whether brits abroad for longer than 15 years or eu nationals from our sister countries in the uk, are the most acutely affected by brexit. yet they had no say in 2016, and now their democratic rights are being disregarded again as there are no provisions in the draft withdrawal agreement on voting rights, no guarantee of existing rights and no provision for future rights. this is a moral dereliction of duty. what are you doing in the commission and the council to avoid this intentional disenfranchisement? personally, i support a people’s vote and a final say for all.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, every country has the right to establish its own rules on how to conduct elections. countries like great britain, which has had a functioning parliament for over a thousand years, do not need, with due respect, advice from the european parliament, which only allowed elections in 1979. the rules in the uk are clear: a person cannot vote in a uk election if they are not on the electoral roll. this is a means by which we can ensure only people entitled to vote can do so. without this very reasonable check, we could see elections in jeopardy. already postal vote fraud perpetrated in some migrant communities has undermined the integrity of the vote in many constituencies. over the last decade, an average of 282 complaints per election reached the electoral commission concerning electoral fraud. we have every right to maintain our strict system in the face of these challenges. the eu complains about our system but fortunately, in march we won’t be here so you won’t have that problem. i would say to ms kirton-darling and ms becerra basterrechea regarding more brits voting for the european union if they’re abroad that i lived abroad for many years and you don’t get anybody more pro—brexit than me.
mr president, citizenship is supposed to be a community of equals, yet 1.8 million eu right holders in the north of ireland could be disenfranchised from their democratic right to vote and to stand in the european elections post brexit. lbc has reported that the dup wants, i quote, ‘as hard a border as possible’ in ireland and disenfranchised citizens, no matter the cost. it is against the very principle of democracy that the citizens be left without a voice in any decision-making process that affects them, but that is actually what the democratic unionist party is saying. sinn féin has legal advice that demonstrates there is no constitutional or legal impediment to (a) facilitate external voting for all irish nationals and (b) create a new european constituency for the north of ireland. it is the entitlement and birthright of everyone born on the island of ireland to be part of the irish nation and therefore the irish government needs to amend its national law to reflect this. civil liberties for people in the north of ireland cannot be allowed to evaporate before our very eyes, and i want to say that this parliament and the eu are saying they are going to uphold the good friday agreement in all of its parts, then that means upholding the civil liberties of the people in the north of ireland too.
mr president, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak this evening. firstly, i want to say how appalled i was today to hear the british prime minister boast about ending freedom of movement. this is denying every uk citizen the opportunity to live, work and study across 27 countries. on a personal level – i myself, my family, my friends, my constituents – we are all going to lose our eu citizenship. this is something we value and it is shameful to boast about denying individuals the rights they currently enjoy. with brexit, far from creating a global britain, my country is becoming little britain, smaller, insular and isolated. on voting rights, the dreadful disenfranchisement of uk citizens living abroad during the eu referendum is one which the eu must never allow to happen again. how could those who have most to lose have been denied their rightful say? the terrible uncertainty hanging over uk citizens currently living in the eu is one which could have been avoided. the eu needs to act to protect all its citizens’ rights.
mr president, can i first of all reiterate everything my colleague catherine stihler said just now. the right to vote is a fundamental right, and it is the fundamental right that itself protects democracy, because at the end of the day, it is democracy that protects the individual from the excesses of the state. that can only be protected by participation. however, instead of making it easier for people to vote now, we seem to be making it more difficult, either by rigging the register or making it more difficult for people to turn out to vote on the day. it is vital that we give people who move the right to vote, because it’s people who move in search of work, to discover, to learn, to export, to trade or to create wealth who are the people to whom we need to give a stake in the communities in which they choose to live. those who have chosen to live in the european continent have been betrayed by the british government in that referendum and betrayed in the withdrawal agreement. we are now seeing brexit for what it is, namely the wholesale removal of rights from individuals by the state. they should get the right to reconsider the outcome. (applause)
mr president, (inaudible) citizens in modern democracies and free movement of citizens is one of the founding principles of the eu, enshrined in the treaties. despite both these statements being facts, thousands of citizens are unable to exercise their right to vote because they’ve used the opportunity to live in another european country. as an elected member from the united kingdom, i’m appalled at my national government’s disregard for british citizens’ freedom to exercise conjointly the right to vote and the right to move freely in other european countries. another very urgent issue concerns the rights of uk citizens who, despite having lived in european countries for many years, may not be able to take part in the local political life of their host country. this is also a concern for european citizens living in the uk. these voting rights are not merely abstract ideas, they have a concrete effect on national and european politics – one of them being the gerrymandered results of the 2016 british referendum. now, less than one year away from the european elections, i hope colleagues realise what is at stake. the very survival of our citizens’ faith in the european union as a truly democratic project.
mr president, i would say to madam prime minister, 20 years ago i worked in romania, in bucharest on the laws that became your anti-money laundering legislation. i worked with intelligent, smart and caring lawyers alongside me. we worked on the international rules that finally became your own legislation. what i also remember of my time in romania was how proud they were of you becoming an independent country, how they can once again vote for their own prime minister, such as yourself. when you and your government stood and received over 45% of your nation states’ votes only a few years ago, you became a leader of a country that was also proud. be in no doubt: today, you are here to be once more one of those prime ministers who are to be attacked, bullied and abused by those people on the front bench for having one simple thing: the audacity to actually stand up to them and their anti-democratic ways. you are a prime minister who has a vote. you are a prime minister that has received the backing of its people. you are standing up to those people in this room who have one vision and that is their own vision. now you can go away from here understanding that they don’t really want to support you. they’re attacking you – the hungarians, the romanians, but you have a responsibility to your people first, not to this lot here.
blue-card question. – mr rebega, thank you for taking my blue card. this is one of a series of debates that have been taking place in here concerning the rule of law in a particular eu member state. is it not an indication of the increasing authoritarian approach across the european union and of the fact that the uk, which has always been a bastion of free speech and democracy, has made the correct choice by voting to leave this increasingly federalist and undemocratic organisation?
blue-card question. – we are seeing an increasingly authoritarian approach across the european union. from the right and from the left – right-wing governments have been criticised, and now left-wing governments are being criticised. surely it is an indication that my country has made the right choice, seeing what is happening in hungary, in poland and in romania, and seeing how the european union does not like what is happening?
mr president, this is a good opportunity. i think the prime minister was on the committee on agriculture and rural development with me a few years ago, and i would like to tell her that i have a constituent in my region, whose lighting company sold some materials to a firm in romania, which then sold them on to another firm in romania; it paid the original firm in romania but that firm did not pay my constituent; he then went to court in romania, and he believes that the official organising the timing of the hearings kept putting them off because he was being bribed to do so. in the end, my constituent went bankrupt. i tried to get the commission interested because it is supposed to intervene in such cases but it did absolutely nothing. my constituent had thought the european union would be on his side. he has ended up losing heavily. please, prime minister, can you have a look at your own country, and endeavour to ensure that british businesspeople can invest there with confidence.
mr president, mr ratas, your country has adapted well to eu membership, but i hope you will acknowledge the problems afflicting larger countries in europe. european citizens in their millions wish to protect their social and cultural values and their stable communities, yet the ideology of the eu treats human beings as just another factor of production. hence the unlimited commitment to free movement as part of the single market. eu leaders are also insensitive to the way that allowing millions of young men from africa and asia to migrate under the guise of refugees is putting those values and those communities under strain. this may not affect you much in tallinn, but it does affect people in toulon, turin and many other cities and towns across europe. if the eu is to convince populations that it will protect their communities and their way of life, it will have to place strict limits both on internal migration between member states and migration from outside the bloc. it shows no sign of stepping up to the mark on either, so i’m afraid we must all stand by for a bumpy ride.
mr president, i am delighted to support this report today, particularly the 40% reduction target for 2030 for both cars and light vans. it’s a big step forward in the ambition of the european union and everyone who has, as i have, dealt with transport policy and looked at emissions from transport, knows that without serious action on emissions from vehicles, you will not meet climate targets and you will not address key problems of air quality in urban areas. every time we’ve had a step forward on this we’ve had to have the automotive industry dragged, kicking and screaming, in the direction of reform. but they have nothing to fear, because this will make the industry more competitive in the future and it is essential that we have just transition funding for workers who would otherwise, potentially, be thrown out of work because of these changes. i believe they have nothing to fear if we do this properly.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, we’re coming up to the international day for the eradication of poverty on 17 october, so this is a very timely debate, and i thank my colleagues for proposing it. the minimum income scheme that we’ve been talking about in parliament is about the last resort income so that people are not left destitute. we should also be aware in this that we’re not talking here about unemployment benefit, because not everybody is in a position to be able to work. this is, as people have said, an ongoing problem for the european union. it’s really disturbing to hear the commissioner remind us about the stabilising of income inequality. even in my own region, london, which is just about the richest region in the european union, we have over one—in—three children who are living below the poverty line. so when we’re looking at questions about minimum income, adequacy is a key point. many of our member states’ systems don’t ensure adequacy; they don’t keep up with the rising cost of living; they cap systems; they have harsh criteria in many cases, and they certainly have an increasingly harsh public perception of people who are on these schemes. when we’re looking at what else the european union can do, we should come back to an idea that was floated some time ago by the anti—poverty network, which is about putting in place a directive setting out the principles upon which minimum income schemes should be based within our member states.
madam president, with robotisation and digitisation, the labour market and work environment as we know it will change sooner than people realise, so we should explore the possibilities of a minimum european income as a matter of urgency. as a champion of social justice, i think that adopting a minimum income is an issue of fairness that would solve many issues, including child poverty, which is unacceptable in the 21st century. in order to efficiently fight inequalities, poverty and social exclusion, we must take a rights—based approach, and minimum income is one of the key tools we could have at our disposal. it is also time that we had a collective discussion on the possibility of having a universal basic income. to consider income that is not linked to work is often perceived as undermining the value of work but i believe, on the contrary, that we must change our traditional mindset so as to realistically address the existing and future revolutions affecting the labour market. this would allow us to approach social and economic policies from the perspective that individuals are not only workers but also rights holders and active citizens.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, this is the first reading of legislation that seeks to update and enhance the powers of eurojust. eurojust has a presence in every member state, with an unprecedented concentration of judicial and police powers and with no separation of powers between judges, prosecutors and police. it has enormous power and enormous potential for the abuse of power. eurojust is just one element of the eu’s own evolving system of criminal law, which is superseding the legal systems of member states. this legislation will enhance its powers to incorporate cooperation with the european public prosecutor’s office. it will permit eurojust to exercise its powers not only at the request of the so—called ‘competent authorities’, but on its own initiative and at the request of the prosecutor’s office. this legislation is a step on the way to absorbing eurojust into the european public prosecutor’s office. the uk is a participant in eurojust but has supposedly opted out of the jurisdiction of the prosecutor’s office. however, this opt—out is illusory. the european public prosecutor can easily circumvent that opt—out in the uk by using the other legal institutions and instruments to achieve its objectives. the evolving eu system of criminal law may not be alien to some member states, but it is completely alien to the english legal system. our freedoms and liberties under our constitution, the common law and statute law, have evolved over centuries. they are being swept away by measures such as these. it has not been possible to ascertain her majesty’s government’s position on this legislation, but ukip has proposed a rejection amendment, and we urge every uk mep to vote for it if they have any desire to protect the freedoms and liberties of british citizens.
madam president, well this siren call that i hear so often here in this chamber of ‘more europe’ couldn’t be better exemplified by what we have before us in terms of the evolution of eurojust. the european union federal state, mission creep, removes nation control of legal matters – we’ve heard about the european public prosecutor, data exchange, etc. – and that is a key pillar and foundation of nation sovereignty. therefore, when it comes to the vote tomorrow i will be absolutely astounded if any mep here in this chamber feels they have have been given a mandate to sacrifice their national judicial control, in the manner that this report sets out, away to the european union. i only hope that everyone who opposes brexit in the united kingdom will watch this debate to see what european union judicial control means.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the uk’s adoption of the european union system of criminal law is destroying our freedoms and liberties under english law. magna carta said that the english could not be arrested or imprisoned without evidence laid against them in an english court. the european union has swept away that ancient liberty. we can now be imprisoned in a foreign jail on the basis of unsubstantiated accusations on a piece of paper. under the bill of rights 1689, we could not be fined or have our property confiscated without a criminal conviction in an english court. that liberty was swept away under the eu directive that allows our assets to be frozen or confiscated on the say—so of a foreign court. now the eu wants to turn this directive into a regulation so that member states will have no leeway in its application, and it even allows for non—conviction—based confiscation orders. for centuries the english could not be imprisoned or have their property taken away without a criminal conviction under their own laws in their own courts. now a court in any corrupt eu member state can judicially kidnap our citizens and freeze or confiscate their property. our governments tell us that we have to surrender our liberties so that they can protect us from cross—border crime and terrorism. the same governments open their borders to any organised criminal from around the world that wants to launder their money in our banking systems. they open our borders to any thief or fraudster that can come purely because they are eu citizens and we cannot deny them entry. her majesty’s government wants to opt into this regulation and mrs may no doubt intends to incorporate it into her proposed security treaty with the eu after brexit. ukip meps will vote against this. we protect british liberties and freedoms, not betray them.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i want to thank the rapporteur for her work in driving this dossier forward. this was critical in ensuring that we reached a swift agreement. ensuring the free flow of data is vital to create a competitive data economy. without genuine competition in the data processing market, we will all continue to pay more than we should do for slower quality services. a healthy data market is the first requirement for a successful digital single market. at the moment, the free flow of data is hindered by a series of obstacles. many public authorities and branches of government have unjustifiable data localisation requirements. their data sets were huge parts of the market and we need them to lead by example. there’s also a lot of legal uncertainty about what laws apply in storing data across borders. we know that many customers have difficulties in switching providers for cloud storage and that there are some questionable practices in that market. underpinning all of these obstacles to free flow of data is a lack of trust, a fear that if you store your data across borders you may have difficulties getting it when you need it. this regulation should be a game changer for the economy. it creates a clear and unambiguous legal regime for the storage of data across borders. it prohibits data localisation except in specific justified cases of a risk to national security, and it gives legal certainty that data can be accessed across borders. it also fosters a cloud market where switching is easy, encouraging competitiveness of cloud service providers. let’s make no mistake, this is the biggest success in the digital single market so far and i very much hope that we can use this as a benchmark also for agreements on the free flow of data in future with third countries.
mr president, i welcome this proposal on the free flow of non—personal data, which is essential for the success of the digital economy. with this in mind, just a few weeks ago, the uk government issued a notice to companies to start drawing up standard contractual clauses for data transfers in the case of a no—deal brexit. just hours ago, at the conservative party conference, the british prime minister is still talking of a no deal. i think this is irresponsible. uk companies doing business in europe in the new data economy we want to encourage would be the hardest hit with a no deal because data from the eu would not be able to flow into the uk until adequacy arrangements were put in place. this can only lead to higher costs and more uncertainty in an area of the economy which has the greatest chance of growth. brexit is nothing about the national interest, but everything about the tory party interest. i don’t want my country to leave the eu, but if it does, it needs to remain part of the single market and customs union for certainty, stability and security.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i have an interesting tale to tell you, so you can all sit up and listen to this one. we’ve all read with concern the substantial allegations against danske bank: the long-term, large—scale laundering of russian funny money – billions of it, apparently. but these are the actions of a regulated bank. imagine what an unregulated european investment bank could get up to in london, where theresa may’s withdrawal agreement will grant it immunity from uk financial services regulation. did you notice that, anyone? i don’t suppose you did. it’s in articles 105 and 119. imagine unregulated european bankers let loose in london. your worst nightmare, i should think! of course, this is what the commission wants. that’s why they snuck it into the withdrawal agreement. they want a lawless european investment bank in order to pursue and finance their foreign policy, in particular busting american sanctions against the totalitarian, theocratic regime in tehran. the commission wants to use the city of london as its own personal wild west financial centre. is that what you want, especially you, mr giegold: is that what you want? i should think not. the withdrawal agreement is being used to avoid democratic accountability – not just the european investment bank’s accountability to uk law, but also its accountability to the european parliament. the european investment bank will be operating large parts of its eur 500 billion of assets in a post—brexit london, out of sight and out of mind. this should worry all those here who support democratic accountability and the rule of law.
blue-card question. – thank you, brian, very kind of you. i think you misunderstood me. i wasn’t saying that it is a good idea for us to stay in the european union. what i am explaining to you is that there is nothing wrong with banks if they are regulated by the city of london – a great and ancient institution, much older than any other institution in europe – but the problem i was putting forward was not that of european oligarchs mucking about with money in london. i’m talking about the european investment bank, run by this place. that’s what i’m concerned about. what the european union wants to do is to have the european investment bank using london as a base to do all sorts of strange things, but basically undermining american foreign policy. that’s what i’m trying to get through to you. do you now understand me or agree with me?
mr president, the sheer volume of dirty money flowing into europe is turning our continent into a playground for kleptocrats and crime bosses while pricing ordinary citizens out of their homes. while people from outside the eu need to have passports to move around our continent, their money can flow freely and often too rapidly to be monitored and controlled. i represent the beautiful city of salisbury, where russian agents poisoned three of my constituents and a fourth woman, who died. we also know that putin’s regime is deliberately undermining european democracy, including involvement in the brexit referendum and i’m just back from a tax3 mission to latvia where we heard first hand of the vast scale of russian money flowing into the eu through that country. what i’m asking myself is why are we allowing the money of putin’s cronies to flow through our banks, bringing with it crime and undermining the rule of law? we agree with the commission that there need to be far more resources and powers at the european level to detect and deter money laundering, so we welcome their proposals. the council must now show that it also is serious about fighting transfers of illegal money and treat these new proposals with the utmost urgency. but beyond that it is surely time to end the double standards with regard to russia where on the one hand we impose sanctions, but on the other we allow the free flow of money from this kleptocratic and hostile state. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – are you not concerned, molly, about the situation with the eib? i mean that the office of the eib may be able to do all sorts of things without regulation in london and do it outside the eu’s view as well. don’t you think this is rather concerning? it’s all part of the agreement that the prime minister seems to have come to. also, i understand what you’re saying about russian money and am as concerned as next man about what the russians are up to london and in your beautiful city of salisbury, but you should also realise that we have to do business with russia. if we don’t do business with russia there will be enormous trouble. it’s better to do business with them than to fight them, would you not agree?
blue-card answer. – with regard to putin, i do have a lot of concerns. i’m not sure how well i can treat your words there, because obviously we see a lot of retweeting by you and other brexiteers of a lot of russian disinformation, and maybe this is also what we’ve heard during this debate, from your side. in terms of the eib, my main concern is that if britain leaves the eu and therefore ceases to have the opportunity to have investment from the eib, we will lose investment in some of the most important sectors, particularly renewables, where britain has done very well from eib investment in recent years. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you very much, mr brok, for explaining very clearly yourself to our ukip colleague the true role and function of the eib. as colleagues will know, i’m a great fan of the german banking system and i’ve actually invited a german banker, thorsten höche, who runs the german public banking association, to plymouth. i’m hoping we will be able to follow your example of public banks, and i absolutely agree that we could do with a national public investment bank – and that is indeed green party policy.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank the commissioner for the introduction. like the previous speaker, i want to concentrate, on behalf of my group, immediately on the point raised by the oral question, which is the heart of the matter: the matter of how local and regional authorities are dealing with the crisis. i make no apology for looking at the issue of greece. i know many other regions will be spoken about by other members too, because this is about the immediate problems. for example, many of us have been to those regions: moria, for example, is now dangerously overcrowded. its current population reaches more than 9 000, while it has the capacity for so much more. there are significant gaps in the provision of basic needs and urgent health care. approximately 4 000 people are living in tents or shelters made from plastic sheeting. we know, colleagues, what this means, not only for those people, but for the european union. we know the risks that refugees and migrants, vulnerable to ruthless exploitation and to economic and social subjugation by criminal organisations, will submit to. we know what the problems are, so here we must concentrate very much on what you were saying in your introduction, commissioner, and i have some questions about this. how are we to deal with the issue? you spoke about more money, better practice and better access. the role of local authorities in the management of these integration policies must be strengthened. i want your view on the call made in our committee by the mayor of athens – and which many other local authority leaders have also made – for direct access to the asylum, migration and integration fund (amif) and technical assistance. what do you think of that? in the negotiations for the next multiannual financial framework (mff), will we keep the long-term perspective of integration and the key issue of direct funding in mind and push for effective and sustainable solutions? we have a crisis. we have the ability to solve that crisis. it’s particularly good that you are here today to go more in depth on what you talked about in your introduction and tell us what the solutions really are.
mr president, people crossing the mediterranean to seek safety in europe continue to die in horrific circumstances. those in the front line who do crucial humanitarian work are for the most part ordinary citizens. many ngos, such as care4calais, the refugee support platform in belgium, and sos méditerranée are amazing examples of how citizens can save lives. despite the appalling situation that refugees and migrants face, humanitarian relief is still not being treated as a priority. i am proud that my political group has proposed to give the sakharov prize to the ngos saving lives in the mediterranean. it’s important for this parliament to acknowledge their crucial contribution and awarding them this prize would force the eu and member states to take a hard look at themselves and recognise that they are failing to uphold their own values and fulfil their international obligations. the very worrying political situation at national level in several countries, and in particular italy, makes it all the more necessary to support regional and local authorities who need to fill in for the state’s failure. it’s our common responsibility as europeans to urgently address this humanitarian crisis and to open safe and legal migration paths to europe.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, this evening we are debating the very serious issue of customs and vat fraud relating to chinese textiles and shoes imported into the eu through the uk. the european anti-fraud office (olaf) has calculated a loss to the eu own resources budget of eur 2 billion in terms of lost customs duties between 2013 and 2016. the uk’s wilfully ignorant response to the eu’s request to intervene in this tax fraud has meant the loss of this vast sum, i regret to say, and it’s an indication of poor cooperation by the uk government as is the uk’s refusal to support the creation of a european public prosecutor. at a time when the uk is suggesting that, after brexit, we should collect customs due for the whole of the eu, this sets a worrying precedent. it clearly undermines trust in the strength of the uk customs system and suggests that rather than maximum facilitation and trusted traders, we need to get the basics of customs control right. i’m sure that british tax customs officials at her majesty’s revenue and customs (hmrc) are as professional as ever, but i fear that, in spite of what the commissioner said, there may be a brexit connection here, in that there is a suggestion that the political masters of the tax policy in the uk may be using negotiation over this fraud as a bargaining chip in the it negotiations. the uk government announced last week that it expects to have respect in the eu. perhaps that government should respect our neighbours by supporting the process of reclaiming money through lost customs fraud and make the necessary changes to stop organised criminals from cheating the system.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, what we are discussing here is a non-legislative, non—binding resolution, the title of which sounds rather innocuous. the reality, of course, is that this resolution is a patchwork of ideas, seeking to take away power from elected governments and hand it to unaccountable institutions in brussels. for example, the resolution calls for an eu legal framework for customs infringements and sanctions, in order to harmonise the way vat is collected and paid across the eu and to transfer customs responsibilities from national authorities to an eu level. but at the heart of this, of course, is an attack on the uk. the eu is seeking to take infringement procedures against the uk based on some rather dodgy and conflicting figures and dates amounting to eur 2.9 billion. fraud is a widespread problem in the uk, and no doubt we are doing our best to make sure importers pay the correct duties, but this is about squeezing every penny from the uk to fill the eu’s coffers before brexit. theresa may has already agreed to hand over eur 40 billion to the eu as a penalty for leaving, but the eu is now inventing any trumped—up reason to come after the uk. i urge you to reject this resolution and let due process take its course without this obvious political interference. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – no, i’m afraid the british government rejects this. what this is obviously doing is raising something when brexit is happening; it’s a way of the eu chasing money of us. this doesn’t work; this organisation doesn’t work. it’s a disgrace that we are being punished simply because we have voted to leave, and it’s not surprising that even british government ministers now are saying that this is like the soviet union. it’s a disgrace.
mr president, once again today, theresa may had nothing to say. there was not a single credible or viable proposal. just more fantasy—disney—brexit. theresa may’s chequers plan demands the eu to ‘trust britain’ to follow eu customs rules. they cannot even be trusted when they are a member state! as the commission said, the british government allowed a chinese fraud network to evade paying customs duties worth eur 2.7 billion. the tories are still negotiating with themselves, and the ‘dancing queen’ is twirling on the head of a pin to the fairytale tune of boris and rees-mogg – the brothers grimm – with their ‘supercalifragilisticexpialidocious’ mary poppins brexit plan. that is something quite atrocious. we need legally binding proposals that protect the good friday agreement in all of its parts – not faith, trust and a little pixie dust. this is no fairytale, and the british brexit proposals won’t give ireland a ‘happily every after’. the good friday agreement is sacrosanct. damn right it is, arlene foster of the dup, who said that it was not.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, there needs to be a new way to look at procurement to make sure taxpayers’ money stays within the local area, creating jobs and ensuring local investment. traditional rules meant big business swooped in and took huge local government contracts. the legal complications and expense in placing tender bids has squeezed out local competition. in my own borough of thurrock in south essex, residents were surprised to see the new gas maintenance provider had its head office in liverpool. it’s as if there are no good quality local providers anymore, and big businesses consume all and leave nothing in their wake. procurement rules need to change to stop this, and preston council is showing just how to do it. it is prioritising contracts based on localism and keeping money in the local economy. research from the federation of small businesses has shown that, for every pound spent with a small or medium sized firm, 63 pence is respent locally – that drops to 40 pence or less with a large or multinational company. before preston changed the way it looked at procurement, only one pound in twenty stayed in preston. surely we would be better off with local solutions to contracts and tendering wherever possible. from my own experience as a councillor, we would be better off with local maintenance contracts: people who live in the same community they look after making repairs. the government may well say that austerity is over, but there are choppy waters ahead. councils can prepare for this now by thinking differently about procurement, keeping money local in dividing up contracts to ensure money stays with local firms, and small businesses can help prepare for uncertain times ahead. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – yes, that’s a very good point, and what you see is a race to the bottom in contracts. but the experience in preston is that if they keep contracts local and give to small and local businesses, the money is respent and reinvested, and local people are employed, which in the medium term will reduce expenditure at local government level. so i quite agree; i think it’s time that the rules were changed to keep money as local as possible to help the local economy.
mr president, i agree with much of what has been said this morning in the debate about the need to make procurement processes more accessible to smes, and indeed charities and local voluntary organisations as well, but the issue i want to highlight specifically is the scandal that is modern slavery. cases of modern slavery are increasing across the european union. in my own country, 136 000 people are estimated to have been victims of modern slavery in 2017. it would be a scandal if modern slavery is being propped up and supported by the spending of public money through procurement and the supply chains of organisations winning public contracts. so i endorse – and i hope this parliament can endorse this morning – action to tackle modern slavery through procurement. one specific example is the co—operative party’s charter against modern slavery, which local and public authorities are signing in the uk. when it comes to modern slavery in public procurement, there can be nowhere to hide.
mr president, thank you for calling me to speak on this important issue. when it comes to government procurement, big is convenient. big companies and big contracts are beloved by far too many who award government contracts. but small is beautiful. small companies can be more effective, more efficient and very often cheaper than their large rivals. unfortunately, however, smaller companies are very often excluded from tendering for contracts, and i’m very pleased to be supporting this report, which seeks to address that. but we need to go further. in my region, smaller companies suffer very often from late payments, from convoluted bureaucracy, from all sorts of bureaucratic hoops that they have to jump through in order to get the contracts and in order to be paid after they have done the work. small is beautiful. small companies offer a good deal to government, a good deal for local workers. we must do more to encourage them.
author. – mr president, i cautiously welcomed the 2016 decision to ease some of the restrictive measures against belarusian officials as part of an eu broader strategy of engagement with that isolated country. but now, given the annexation of crimea by russia and its offensive in the east of ukraine, there is a belief that lukashenko, the president of belarus, may have somehow welcomed warmer relations with the european union as a counterweight to russia’s dominance of the country, fearing that he too could go the way of president yanukovych of ukraine. such an approach, it was hoped, might yield results in terms of greater freedom and democratic and human rights within belarus and opening up the country to the west. as the case of the website charter 97 however illustrates, such thinking was far too optimistic. as our resolution today makes clear, journalists are being targeted by police in a systematic and deliberate policy of harassment and intimidation. death threats to the editor—in—chief, natalya radina, being a particularly concerning example. hopes of president lukashenko changing his stripes were perhaps premature, but we can remain certain that the continued support for organisations such as charter 97 will be vital to ensuring, one day, a democratic, free and successful belarus in the future.
author. – mr president, a free and independent press is a fundamental european value, and it must be an essential part of the eu’s relationship with belarus. charter 97 provides a clear example of where our values are being undermined. their news website was blocked in belarus, and more recently in russia, in an attempt to stamp out informed public debate. other websites and social media are also being tracked, preventing anonymity in order to prevent free speech. this highlights a worrying trend of a wider clampdown on civil society in an already oppressive environment. belarus is acting against free association too, most worryingly with the case against independent trade unionists. in 2016, the eu lifted most sanctions that were in place against belarusian officials and companies in a spirit of engagement, hoping that better relations would lead to better fundamental freedoms. it is now clear that this is not working. the case of charter 97 and that of the trade unionists most recently make this failure clear. now is the time for action. the eeas needs to get funding in place for organisations such as charter 97 and belsat-tv, which provide independent broadcasting. this funding needs to be direct and it needs to be swift. the eu’s support for belarus must have conditions and there must be consequences for not meeting those conditions. harassment, death threats and the imprisonment of journalists, human rights defenders, trade unionists and others are surely the sort of violations that should cost belarus its eu financial support.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the eu must take action on belarus. the passivity of the commission and the european external action service has now emboldened lukashenko’s government. the human rights situation, in particular when it comes to press freedom, is deteriorating quickly, and the treatment of political prisoners is horrific in a country where the death penalty remains a shameful option. the case of human rights defender mikhail zhamchuzhny is particularly horrific. he has been kept in solitary confinement for most of the time since the last week of july and this, ladies and gentlemen, is in europe. dmitry bobryk, a journalist arrested in august in a vicious attack on press freedom, has reported that – whilst in detention – he was forced to sign a cooperation agreement with the kgb, and the case of charter 97, as already described, is very concerning. i have worked with that organisation over the past few months, and they feel totally betrayed by the eu. i therefore urge commissioner hahn and the high representative to take action and demand improvements in belarus’ human rights record.
author. – mr president, the united arab emirates is a key ally of the european union in the arabian gulf, but we ought to remind ourselves that, when the uae cut ties with qatar last year, the emirati attorney general warned that citizens expressing sympathy for qatar could face heavy fines and prison sentences of up to 15 years. in this respect, this house must be crystal clear that freedom of expression and the respect of freedoms for individuals is not just a mere human rights issue. it is profoundly about lasting peace and prosperity in the region. rule of law is essentially about protecting the citizen from the unjust acts of the government and the state, not the other way round. i can only, therefore, hope that, if the uae complies with the united nations declaration on human rights defenders, we may then have a chance of seeing brotherly nations united again in promoting peace, security and prosperity in the middle east.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, the human rights situation continues to deteriorate in the gulf. the eu and its member states must therefore take a serious stand against attacks perpetrated against human rights defenders by all our partners. the arrest and sentencing of ahmed mansoor earlier this year was already of great concern. unfortunately, our fears have been confirmed by reports of ill-treatment that he was subjected to whilst in detention. this is not unusual. information suggesting he has had no access to his family or to legal counsel has also been reported. the united arab emirates (uae) government must immediately and unconditionally release ahmed mansoor and drop all charges against him. he is a political prisoner who has been detained solely for expressing his views on social media. discriminations against women also continue to be part of daily life in uae. there are severe restrictions in their freedom of movement, as women are still dependent on male guardians. as in many places in the gulf, women’s rights defenders are unfairly attacked, harassed and prevented from conducting peaceful human rights activities. the situation of labour rights is also very problematic, with widespread abusive practices by employers. the eu must continue to demand significant progress on human rights in the emirates. as european governments and companies continue to conduct billions worth of trade and investment, we have all the more responsibility to demand that the highest human rights standards be upheld.
mr president, ahmed mansoor has become a symbol of the ongoing crackdown on freedom of expression and association in the uae. he has been harassed and persecuted by the emirati authorities for many years since his first arrest in 2011, when he openly called for political reforms in the country. last may, ahmed was sentenced to 10 years in prison for expressing his views on twitter. the uae is trying to project an image of openness and modernism as part of its vision 2021 agenda. dissenting voices are silenced through repressive laws, and human rights defenders have no space to carry out their legitimate activities without fear of retaliation. the emirates’ poor record on fundamental freedoms was remarked on by the un commissioner on human rights in his periodical review only a few months ago. we urge the uae government to free ahmed mansoor immediately and bring its legislation in line with international human rights standards. we would expect nothing less from a country that is part of the un human rights council.
mr president, we’ve already heard about the human rights defender, ahmed mansoor, who has been incarcerated for ten years because he exercised his right to express his views online. mansoor’s only crime was peacefully promoting freedom of expression and strengthening the role of the mps in his country. not only did he face repeated death threats, physical assaults and detention, but he has been denied access to a lawyer, his visitation rights have been suspended and he has allegedly been subjected to torture. the ruling highlights an unabashed and blatant use of over—the—top state security to target human rights defenders in the uae. many emirati and other activists face repression, arbitrary arrests and abductions by security authorities, who are unaccountable for their actions. so my question to the commission is: what has the eu done to address forced disappearances while negotiating the recent cooperation agreement with the uae? secondly, ahmed mansoor has filed a supreme court appeal against his sentence. how can the eu ensure a timely and fair appeal trial? thirdly, the uae’s repressive cybercrime law was amended this week, introducing harsher penalties and sanctions. will the commission raise this issue and that of the electronic surveillance of human rights activists in its annual counterterrorism dialogue?
mr president, china is a critically important international player, and its significance will only increase in the coming decades. being such an important actor and a member of the security council brings with it certain responsibilities. whilst flawed, the current international system has brought with it increasing security and prosperity for citizens around the globe. but far too many countries do not respect human rights. for such an important player to show such blatant disregard only erodes the efforts that have been made globally. whilst we can all understand and sympathise with the fight against radical islamic terrorism, chinese actions in xinjiang appear to have crossed the line. dealing with terrorist groups must not slip into the general persecution of the people of xinjiang. china must decide what kind of future we are all going to share. the application of basic human rights must be amongst them.
mr president, if any other country detained one million people in camps and forced 11 million people to live in a repressive police state, we would be calling for a referral to the icc on the grounds of ethnic cleansing. at the very least, sanctions would be imposed. yet, most governments have declined to criticise beijing or even ask for more transparency about the situation in xinjiang out of fear of economic retaliation from china. this parliament has always been at the forefront in defending human rights worldwide. sadly, this time our resolution does not represent a breakthrough, but merely an expression of concern. therefore, i urge you and the parliament to take all measures necessary to persuade the chinese government to close the camps and end all human rights violations in xinjiang against the uyghur people. the eu must stand ready to adopt targeted sanctions against all responsible for the persecution of uyghur, victims of 21st century concentration camps. it is our obligation to acknowledge the uyghur’s existence as a global community and act now in order to prevent the world’s next disaster.
madam president, i wish to insert the following after paragraph 3: ‘condemns the launch of iranian—built ballistic missiles by the houthis against targets in saudi arabia, including civilian areas, and their indiscriminate use of sea mines and internationally banned anti—personnel landmines.’
madam president, the eu has a responsibility to all living things to lead efforts towards ambitious action against climate change. as climate sceptics, led by donald trump, imperil biodiversity it is crucial that we europeans lead the way. women and young people must play a central part in our climate change strategy. in fact, tackling climate change is an opportunity to foster positive change in broader areas of society. women play a particularly significant role in crucial sectors in rural areas, and they must be at the forefront of our work. our climate policies must also go hand in hand with our human rights policies, for example we must stand up for indigenous people against land grabs and deforestation, particularly in the amazon, which is the lungs of the world. climate change challenges the ways our societies have developed with the growing phenomenon of climate refugees fleeing unsustainable lives and we must therefore radically reshape the way we are living now, for the sake of future generations.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. – madam president, the commissioner addressed turkey and i am very glad that he did. it was also addressed by the shadow rapporteur from the committee on foreign affairs (afet). i am just going to focus on one budget item and that is the pre-accession funding for turkey. a report has come out which says that the reality is that the funds spent under the ipa i objectives have barely addressed the independence and impartiality of justice, the fight against high-level corruption, and press freedom. as a matter of fact, there are more journalists in prison in turkey than there are in iran. these are quotes from the eu’s own court of auditors. for the record, turkey is scheduled to receive pre-accession funding of eur 1 940 billion 2018—2020. you always hear ‘european values’ here and this is simply an outrage. i urge colleagues to vote against this tomorrow. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i’m always charmed by mr rübig and especially on this occasion, and so i will just give a very short answer. i very much agree with you, and the wto needs to be supported.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. – madam president, in the committee on budgets (budg), as my friend daniele viotti said, we talk of delivering european union added value. in the committee on regional development (regi), on which i also sit, we talk about cohesion policy delivering european priorities and here the twains meet very productively. every euro we invest in cohesion policy delivers a return on investment of 174%. less investment in cohesion policy means lower growth and fewer jobs. that is why we believe in regional development that cohesion funds must remain the main investment priority of the european union with an ambitious budget to match ambitious goals. secondly, after a period of under—implementation, the programmes have now reached cruising speed. so, while i note the 1.1% increase in payment appropriations, we wonder if this will be sufficient and raise a note of caution that we may need a higher level of payments to match the pace of the programmes. finally, we note with caution the proposal to increase the budget of the structural reform support programme by eur 80 million over the next two budget years. we would firmly state that this needs to be achieved through the mobilisation of special instruments and not at the expense of cohesion policy.
madam president, 2019 should have been the final year that the uk paid anything to the eu and yet somehow the eu budget is increasing, and could now be above eur 164 billion for next year alone. you should be preparing for the uk’s withdrawal, but you have your head in the sand and want to spend even more taxpayers’ money. but i suppose there is good reason, isn’t there? the tories’ surrender to the eu on every aspect of the brexit negotiations has meant theresa may agreeing to give the eu gbp 40 billion for nothing in return, which could take decades for the british taxpayers to pay off. yet at home, the same tory party says there is not enough money and makes damaging cuts to front-line public services. the british negotiators need to remember that the uk is not legally obliged to pay the eu anything after we leave, yet the conservatives are negotiating a never-ending transitional agreement, meaning the british people will continue having to make vast contributions but without any representation or democratic way to change your decisions. the tories are negotiating a brexit that is even worse than if we’d remained a member, and now we discover that mrs may, as part of her abject surrender to mr barnier, is going to commit us to spending an additional gbp 20 billion for the next framework. one pound is too much. there should not be one penny, one pfennig, one centime. if we look at how the eu spends our money in the uk it’s clear what’s going on: eur 300 000 to the european alternatives group; eur 350 000 to the european movement, and in 2017 the my life my say group received eur 15 000. the list goes on. all these groups oppose brexit and are doing everything they can to overturn the referendum. you often talk about foreign interference... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, firstly can i thank the rapporteur, mr dantin, for all his work, and indeed the shadow rapporteurs from the other groups, all our staff and the commission officials as well, for all their work on this complex, wide-ranging report. i think most of us take it for granted that when we turn on the tap, the tap water in our glass will be clean, safe and high quality, so of course, protecting public health and the safety of the public must be the foremost objective of this directive, and thatʼs the leading priority for my group. on endocrine disruptors, the s&d group pushed, as we have done for a number of years, for stronger protections by bringing those substances into the formal parametric values. on pfas substances we have been clear that stronger action is needed, and we are determined to see controls of microplastics in water as well. we must also take this opportunity, in my view, to not just criticise water suppliers for unacceptable leakage rates; we must also mandate action with targets to reduce leakage. leakage is bad for customers. it sees bills going up – 2.4 billion litres of water is wasted in my own member state every single day – so i applaud the gmb trade unionʼs campaign to take back the tap, to get water in the uk back in public hands, working in the interests of people and not shareholder dividends. earlier i talked about the fact that we take it for granted that tap water coming out of our taps is safe – but what about those who have no taps? people in refugee camps in our cities, people who are homeless. i applaud the fact that the commission takes this opportunity to respond to the citizens’ initiative signed by 1.8 million people. it would be a missed opportunity if this parliament did not match the ambition of the commission on the right to water. in fact, my view is that this parliament should be strengthening and adding to that ambition, not watering it down. we have to make the right to water a reality for all.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, this proposed directive typifies why we need a brexit. our uk environment agency has published a life cycle assessment, which demonstrates that oxo-biodegradable plastic is superior to bio-plastic. this was reinforced by the intertek report of 2012. the eu has instigated its own technical study but want to rush legislation through before the findings are published. this indicates that the european union are trying very hard to airbrush oxo-biodegradable plastic out of the discussion entirely. why? because this is being developed by a british company, whilst the competitor technology is in the hands of the italian company novamont, who have received direct support from the italian government, who in turn have made it mandatory for retailers to use novamont’s product. the italian product will not fully degrade in the open air, whilst the british product does so. the italian product cannot be recycled, whilst the british product can be, if required. the italian process produces far more co2, indicating that more energy is required to manufacture it. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – mr president, as you said, it wasn’t a question, but i noticed that the speaker didn’t use the word ‘oxo-biodegradable’ plastic. this is different to ‘bioplastic’, and this is where a lot of confusion has arisen.
mr president, sadly we seem to live in an era where too much casual prejudice and serious hatred finds its way into public discourse, particularly online. so i want to pay tribute today to organisations working with young people to help tackle that hate: organisations like leicester’s federation of muslim organisations, who i recently joined for their eid celebrations; the holocaust education trust, this year marking 30 years of profoundly important work; and the national holocaust centre, which is based in my constituency. these organisations and many more do incredibly important and special work, because they are equipping young people with the tools, with the knowledge, to help tackle that hate. and young people have a unique role and unique potential to help us tackle that hate, and all of us in this parliament have a responsibility to stand alongside those young people in confronting and tackling hatred in our society.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, trust is vital in the digital era. with more of our lives taking place online and increasing consumer choice, people can, and do, get up and leave when that trust is damaged. what happened with facebook and cambridge analytica was an unacceptable abuse on a vast scale. everyone can agree that this must not happen again, and i have been supportive of the ongoing investigations. the uk information commissioner’s office, which currently handles 30% of all european data protection board cases, is doing a thorough job of investigating. it has already issued a fine to facebook. cambridge analytica is no more. it is clear that facebook does not walk away from this scandal unscathed. facebook knows it will need to rebuild its reputation in the eyes of its users, and as politicians it’s not our role to dictate exactly how they do that. nor is it our role to tell users how they should react. most europeans have not given up their facebook account. clear legal limits and strict conditions on political profiling have been imposed by the new gdpr rules. therefore, we should allow the gdpr time to bed in before we throw the baby out with the bathwater and start to chuck more legislation at the problem. and also let’s try not to fool ourselves that facebook manipulation was responsible for brexit or trump. people would have voted for them regardless of facebook. it was already prevalent in our society. the gdpr is not perfect, but at the speed at which technology moves and innovation moves, any new laws in this area need to keep up with the modern world. we should focus on addressing this, rather than trying to point-score by taking dangerous steps to suspend the privacy shield which is proposed in the resolution we will vote on later. this would deny our citizens the protections that it offers.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, christmas is still weeks away, nevertheless, i can bring you joyous tidings from st nicholas, as sir nicholas clegg is also known. facebook has just appointed st nicholas clegg as head of global affairs. many of us, many colleagues, have despaired at facebook’s predatory approach and worse, its blatant exploitation of the personal data of its users for commercial purposes. but, apparently, st nicholas is going to put an end to all of this. st nicholas is to be paid a pot of gold, worthy of alde group leader, guy verhofstadt, on a slow day. facebook has lost the confidence of millions of people, but st nicholas clegg understands this well because he went through exactly the same when he was leader of the liberal democrats. also, st nicholas clegg is qualified. he speaks four languages fluently and can explain hypocrisy in all of them. nonetheless, sir nicholas will do well. he has written an entire book called ‘how to stop brexit’. he will always be beloved as a lobbyist by the eu commission and, for sure, the commission is going to let facebook off the hook.
mr president, if the european union is actually serious about users’ data and data protection, why not target google and every other internet search engine whose algorithms ensure that anyone’s search on absolutely anything is tracked, evaluated and fed back to the big corporates to influence and manipulate consumer opinion, choice and decision? the concern that has been voiced in the chamber this morning is about data-mining for political purposes and, of course, it is a key european union issue because it knows the threat that exists in terms of anti-european union sentiment there across europe for next year’s elections. but just let me remind you, both twitter and facebook have conducted the investigations. they have conducted those with the relevant political commissions, in relevant countries, and concluded, conducted, been approved, negligible impact. turning to commissioner jourová, i’m very pleased to see you this morning, commissioner, and you stated ‘free from foreign interference’. well, can i ask you, will you take steps to stop billionaire george soros from funding an anti-brexit campaign with multimillion pound donations? (the speaker declined to take a blue-card question from molly scott cato)
mr president, at least one colleague has already said that entire elections, brexit or any other individual election, are not wholly affected either by the cambridge analytica scandal or any other facebook issue. this is an ultimate misunderstanding of what we are dealing with. what we are dealing with is individual groups of vulnerable voters being shifted around by the lack of integrity of what is happening on facebook. if colleagues are not aware now of what is happening on these platforms, the scale of facebook in 109 countries, then they’re not paying attention. we must take action now to restore trust, not just in online platforms, but in the integrity of our elections. that is now happening in the commission and it is happening here in parliament. this is absolutely critical, and we are defining the problem, but we must take action. in the hearings we said that there must now be an internal audit of facebook. we urge facebook now to work with the european data protection board to carry out that full and independent audit, but we have to conform not just to gdpr but we said when the council were absent here, to think about what the protections are within e-privacy. not because e-privacy is some totemic, iconic thing that we are bandying around, but because we have a problem with the technology. we have, colleagues, a whole issue now of further actions to protect our elections. in the united states, recent requirements have been introduced to verify the identity, location and sponsor of political ads that are a good response, and the same standards should be applied here. we have a whole range of issues that we have to fix here in the european union: applying conventional offline electoral safeguards, such as rules and transparency and limits to spending, respect for silence periods, making it easy to recognise online political paid advertisements and banning profiling for electoral purposes. social media platforms should label content shared by bots and speed up the process of removing fake accounts, and compulsory post-campaign audits should be conducted to ensure personal data are deleted. the commission should look with us and updating competition rules and increasing algorithmic transparency. we are here to deal with facebook because facebook is not a minor issue. this is a global issue dealing with elections all over the world and it has already affected our referenda and it has affected our elections. colleagues, if anyone in this chamber thinks that this is not a serious issue, they are not paying attention. this resolution sets out the path we need to protect our citizens’ privacy and restore trust and confidence in our democratic systems.
mr president, i am able to take this time on behalf of romeo franz – i think there may have been a misunderstanding. is that possible?
mr president, it is quite extraordinary that this parliament should be indignant about cambridge analytica’s cack-handed attempt to impact democratic votes. after all, right now, just a few hundred yards from the brussels parliament, herman van rompuy, the former president of the european union, leads a think tank whose sole aim is undermining the uk’s democratic referendum to leave the european union. scandalously, he published a paper whose aim – and i quote – was to change the political dynamics in the uk by getting the prime minister to agree to an extension of the transition period. this is foreign intervention in domestic politics. this is manipulation of voters from the outside. this is worse than cambridge analytica. this is the anti—democratic interference which is the very essence, the soul, of the european union, and it has worked as theresa may is now offering such an extension. scandalous, scandalous, scandalous! (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8)) (interjection from mr woolfe: ‘it is a pure joy to accept such blue cards from mrs scott cato. go ahead.’)
blue-card question. – dr cato – but i appreciate mr woolfe taking the blue card and having the courage to do so. steven woolfe sounds extremely indignant about this debate, so i wonder if he’s critical about the theft of our citizens’ data? i wonder if he minds about the use of illegal ads? does he believe that the eu wants to steal our cuppa or cause polar bears to starve? and does he approve of the micro-targeting of ads at a vulnerable group of people, as mr moraes said, which undermines the public debate?
blue-card answer. – what i’m indignant about is the hypocrisy of this house. the hypocrisy that, on the one hand, says we do not like cambridge analytica yet we’re quite willing to accept the money of soros as he funds organisations in the uk that have tried to attempt to have a third referendum in the united kingdom. those who attempt to suggest that outside interference in the eu is perfectly acceptable: if you want democracy, treat it fairly on both sides, but don’t accept the money from those who are trying to undermine our own parliament.
mr president, in my own country the relevant committee in my parliament is crying out for action to be taken. my colleague damian collins is not satisfied with the result, and the committee in question has carried out an inquiry and has directly said that there is manipulation and russian interference in our election processes. that is at a nation-state level and look here today: the council chairs are empty, that is the response that we are giving. governments are stalling, facebook knows its power. but this weekend hundreds of thousands of people took to the streets of london and among their demands is a demand that we must protect our much-cherished democratic processes. cambridge analytica and facebook were instrumental in swaying the eu referendum in the united kingdom; swaying it using techniques beyond the expectations of an unsuspecting electorate and out-of-date election regulations. nick clegg may hold the most senior public policy role in facebook today ; let’s hope he guides them well. but cambridge analytica has not gone, it lives on in other guises and will continue to show itself again.
mr president, those of us involved in politics have been horrified by the way facebook has been used to share disinformation that distorts democracy and divides societies. from the uk brexit campaign to the trump election and now the presidential election in brazil, facebook has shown itself to be an anti-social network that threatens democracy. the disinfectant of publicity has not ended this problem. cambridge analytica is morphing into a new form under the auspices of emerdata that reunites the money of the mercer family with the manipulative skills of alexander nix, and itʼs disappointing to hear that nick clegg will be joining facebook as global ambassador and spin master. the resolution notes that we need less pr and more detailed answers from technical experts and changes to facebook governance. i’m pleased that the resolution notes the excellent work done by the uk’s information commissioner, elizabeth denham, and that it seeks to prohibit political targeted advertising that undermines the public debate through microtargeting. we are witnessing democracy disrupted across the world. protecting democracy against the psychological operations of the wealthy should be a priority for us all.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, i think when many of us turn on the taps in our homes or our workplaces we will take it for granted that the water in our glass will be clean, safe and of sufficient quality to drink, and parliament has today gone some way to ensuring that remains the case. we’ve taken important steps on endocrine disruptors, on per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances (pfas) and on microplastics in our water. we are responding to the concerns of citizens on the safety and quality of our drinking water. i want to turn though to those people who do not have a tap to turn on, those who are homeless, who live in the makeshift refugee camps we see in european cities. parliament today could and should have gone much further on the right to water. we have missed an opportunity today to respond in full to those 1.8 million eu citizens who signed the european citizens’ initiative on the right to water. those in this house, who chose not to respond positively to that call from our citizens will have to answer to them next year in the elections. finally, i want to turn to the issue of water leakage. leaking water from our pipes, from our networks is not just bad for the environment, it isn’t just wasteful, it means water bills are higher for customers. i particularly want to mention the campaign by the gmb trade union in the uk, the take back the tap campaign, which is seeking to get water back in public hands, and properly accountable to the public. 2.4 billion litres of water wasted every single day in the uk by the privatised water companies, 432 million litres a day leaking from the severn trent network in my region and at the same time, those companies in the last five years have paid out gbp 6.5 billion in shareholder dividends. we all have a right to clean, safe drinking water and those water suppliers should be acting in the public interest, not in the interests of bonanza shareholder dividends.
madam president, 1.2 million bathtubs’ worth. that’s how much water anglian water wastes every single day through leaks. yet the privatised water company showered their shareholders with a total of gbp 320 million last year. it’s another 1.2 million bathtubs’ worth for affinity water, 453 000 for essex and suffolk water and 93 000 for cambridge water. all wasted. it’s time for change. we need a water industry that works for everyone and england’s water needs to be in the hands of the public. after all, water is vital for life and about as natural a monopoly as you can find. where’s the need for a market? when you run the bath, the choice is hot or cold, not anglia water or thames water. as this report rightly says, leakage rates need to fall, and that is why i am proud to back the gmb’s campaign. it’s time to take back the tap.
madam president, yet again i find myself asking, to what problem is this legislative proposal the solution? clean water and its spread has been one of the miracles of our lifetime, not only in europe but world-wide. one of the extraordinary and unreported wonders is the number of people who are no longer subject to water-borne diseases. but it is not a problem in the european union and if it were, there are ample national regulations and laws and legal remedies open for an individual who has been injured without needing additional regulation. smuggled into this report is something quite different as well. the proposal that restaurants should all have to supply free water on demand. now again, i think this is based on a fundamental misunderstanding of how the private sector operates and what free contract is. nobody has to eat in a restaurant, and if they choose to it’s surely up to the restaurateur to offer whatever terms he wanted. you’ve got to ask, is there any crevice, is there any nook or cranny of national life so small that brussels doesn’t seek to thrust its stubby fingers into it?
madam president, in the united states of america, where i believe they directly elect their presidents, a president who is in the last year of his term and is not standing again is described as a lame duck. on that basis, this is a lame duck commission. were it wise, it would reflect that modest status with modest targets. but no, right across the piece, the juncker commission is attempting new power grabs for brussels, from permanent structured cooperation in defence to a common european asylum system, to beefing up the sanctions on member states which displease it in what it euphemistically calls the rule-of-law agenda. that’s the rule of brussels law over national democracies, by the way. but with its two federalist engines wheezing badly – macron in france and merkel in germany – one can’t help but notice that the commission is on collision course with the two other heavyweights, with italy in regard both to migration and economic sovereignty, and with the united kingdom on its right to run its own affairs even after it’s left the club. i had to laugh when mr juncker in his state of the union package went to great pains to highlight one area where he felt subsidiarity could be enforced: changing the clocks. countries are going to be allowed to set their own time. big deal: given the rest of this federalist agenda, that just gives the nation the right to decide whether its sovereignty will be stolen at 4 o’clock or 5 o’clock on any given day. mr juncker told us in september, and i quote, ‘the time for european sovereignty has come’. no, it has not, at least not in the eyes of italians, or hungarians, or austrians or swedes, or german surging towards the afd. even at its fag end, this commission continues the great eurocrat mistake of overreaching and seeking to govern without consent. well, the british people have had enough. we’re off. we will run our own country again one day, no matter what mrs may connives to bind us into. if you don’t change your ways, i predict we will be the first of many.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, high representative, as ever more gruesome details emerge surrounding the brutal murder of the saudi dissident and journalist jamal khashoggi, the more obvious become the inconsistencies and, basically, the cover-ups in the explanations given by the saudi authorities. news sources are now reporting that dismembered body parts belonging to khashoggi have been found, supporting the turkish claims and their narrative of the events. clearly, there is more to come and an international investigation into the case is urgently needed, as called for by france, the uk and germany. i also note the comments made by the british foreign secretary in which, pending the investigation, a uk arms embargo has not been excluded. i note also the temporary one already imposed by germany, much to its credit. we in the west had welcomed some of the recent reforms led by crown prince mohammed bin salman, in a country more often known for its internal social repression and global export of wahhabi salafism. however, we have also witnessed a young despot consolidating his power at home and intervening more widely and aggressively abroad, from the saudi blockade of qatar and the atrocious bombing campaign in yemen to the support for jihadists in syria. the brazenness and the location of khashoggi’s murder are, however, without precedent, and the use of torture crosses the line which makes this an international crime under the torture convention of 1987. pragmatism, driven by commercial ties, has been the watchword for relations between saudi arabia and the west for many decades. it is time now for our common eu values and fundamental human rights also to reassert themselves.
madam president, high representative, the tensions in the sea of azov are yet another example of russia’s expansionist campaign to destabilise ukraine politically and economically. since russia’s illegal annexation of crimea in the black sea in 2014, ukraine’s azov ports, principally mariupol, are now responsible for handling 80% of the country’s maritime exports. journeys that before could be made in a day are now taking up to a week, as the result of russian restrictions. russia seeks to defend many of these as being necessary for the security of the newly constructed kerch bridge linking mainland russia to crimea, the construction of which is, in itself, a violation of ukraine’s territorial integrity and sovereignty. therefore, i welcome the council’s decision to extend restrictive measures to entities involved in its construction. with ever-increasing militarisation of the sea of azov, we must ensure that this cannot become a flashpoint for further conflict in future. nato recently highlighted the need to continue with the political support that the alliance is offering to ukraine, helping to modernise the ukrainian armed forces and security institutions.
madam president, madam high representative, not satisfied by annexing crimea and supporting rebels in eastern ukraine, russia is now trying to choke ukraine’s economy. russia’s blockade is impeding civilian and maritime traffic, against international law. i fear military force will neither prevent a potential invasion nor de-escalate the situation, so therefore, high representative, i urge you, if you have a moment to listen, to engage in mediating in this crisis and to revive a serious peace process. with ukraine’s election campaign soon in full swing, time is of the essence. both sides will soon expect more political gain from further escalation. so my questions to you, high representative, are: are you considering a un maritime peacekeeping operation to maintain freedom of maritime movement in the sea of azov? maybe a neutral third country could be responsible or involved. secondly, reducing tensions at sea could help restart a process for the political situation in donbass.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i must start by expressing our deep concern over the situation in venezuela. as greens, we abhor any human rights violations and threats to the rule of law and are seriously concerned about the deepening humanitarian and political crisis in venezuela. i would like to acknowledge and support your efforts, ms mogherini, to establish a contact group in venezuela that may facilitate political discussions between different parties. as greens, we are always strong supporters of a political process as a means to bring about peaceful resolution. we recognise that targeted sanctions can bring some progress, but they cannot replace peaceful diplomacy, and they must not be allowed to harm the venezuelan people further. we have now had several debates in this house on venezuela. we have them frequently, and it seems that there are some factions in the house who are unfailingly supporting the venezuelan opposition. we are concerned that this may make the likelihood of civil conflict greater, and we see that as an increasing likelihood that we are very concerned about. i would urge my colleagues to support peace through diplomacy and negotiation, and not to stoke the fire with inflammatory rhetoric.
madam president, i welcome high representative mogherini’s stance on venezuela. the grave human rights violations in the country must be condemned in the strongest possible terms, and the european union must lead efforts to facilitate political dialogue in the country. the situation in venezuela has been blocked for several years, and there seems to be no end in sight. the eu should, as it often has done in the past, serve as a facilitator of dialogue in order for the venezuelans to find a viable exit to the economic, social and political crisis they’re facing. it’s crucial to involve other countries from the region in order to ensure that peaceful talks can take place, whilst also joining efforts with them towards independent investigations into allegations of human rights violations and the prosecution of perpetrators. while we discuss the diplomatic solutions to the crisis, sadly, people are starving on the ground, fleeing to neighbouring countries because they lack public services. with the current state of affairs, our priority should be to deliver urgent humanitarian aid to the country, as the short-term consequences of the crisis for the population are dire.
mr president, it could well be a game changer to have the encapsulation of the 2016 resolution, which is a less crisis-driven, more systematic, rule of law mechanism and we have talked about it endlessly within our committee and it is something that we very much want. i have two points that i want to make. one is that, in reaching this objective, we must not dismiss what we are currently doing, and not give an excuse to anyone to diminish the work that has been done, either by the commission or by members of parliament here on these fundamental rights mechanisms under article 7. to do so would be to diminish the key work that has been done and that will also happen when we have this other mechanism that is less crisis-driven, because what i mean by that is the capacity to act in case of a breach, the capacity to uphold the rule of law, and indeed human rights, will be difficult in this mechanism also. it will be difficult to monitor every member state, and to act when there is something wrong there, so please, bear this in mind. so, to ensure that we complete the work that we are doing currently, but then in the future we look at this mechanism, and yes, hopefully we fulfil the 2016 resolution. but don’t throw the baby out with the bathwater. ensure that we preserve the very tough work that we are currently undertaking and then get to this new fundamental rights mechanism.
mr president, in my country, the uk, racist and anti-democratic forces led a campaign for us to leave the european union and won by breaking the electoral law and telling lies. in poland and hungary, governments are making serious attacks against the rule of law and preventing civil society from playing its crucial role, required for any functioning democracy. in several other eu countries, helping migrants and refugees is now criminalised. whilst i was relieved to see this parliament take action against orbán’s government recently, i remain worried that the eu is not doing enough to support democracy, human rights and the rule of law. the drifting situation in several member states should call for much stronger reactions. it’s our moral and historical responsibility. we must rise against fascism and fight against those who attack our common values. so i fully support sophia in 't veld’s proposal for a comprehensive eu mechanism that would help us respond to the breaches. in the meantime, we must continue to use the tools at our disposal against illiberal governments.
mr president, nothing illustrates the long-term aim of the european union more clearly than the increasing weakening of the national borders by schengen. the commission brags that the schengen information system is the most important information exchange system in europe. no doubt it is. the vast body of information kept on you, me and everyone else who has ever crossed a european border makes george orwell’s 1984 nightmare look kind, generous and liberal. schengen is supposed to keep those inside safe and control who comes in from outside. it does neither. terrorist slaughter has taken place inside the schengen area, committed by evil men who go between europe and the middle east at ease and at will. schengen stops none of it. still, the commission wants to hold more information on all of us. it is further to weaken powers of the nation states. without control, borders dissolve. without borders, nations dissolve. that is the long-term aim of the european union.
mr president, when we discuss the schengen information system it is important to bear in mind that some member states are ready to abuse it for their own anti-democratic agenda. last month, open dialogue foundation president lyudmyla kozlovska was deported out of poland through the schengen information system because of her peaceful human rights activities. although i knew that this excellent human rights organisation had been the target of intimidation and smear campaigns by several governments, i was shocked to learn about what happened to lyudmyla. the backlash against freedom of expression and rule of law in several member states should be very concerning for all of us. i believe we should deeply question the way this system works and how it can be used by member states that deliberately choose to overlook their human rights obligations and act like authoritarian regimes. the case also says much about the way we approach our migration policies. locking our borders at all costs has terrible consequences for human rights. i call on the eu to wake up and rethink its migration policy and come up with a more humane approach.
mr president, forgive me, members, for looking at these reports through the context of what might happen next march and brexit, but the uk is the third-heaviest user of data on a daily basis through the sis systems. having recently joined lord willy bach, the police commissioner for leicestershire, in a series of meetings in brussels, including with the commissioner (who was very generous with his time), with parliamentarians and other agencies concerned with law enforcement, it is clear to me that that data and those tools are as important to modern policing as handcuffs. so it is critical over these next few months that we ensure – the uk government and the negotiators here – that that close cooperation through these systems between the uk and our partners here in the eu can continue, to ensure that our citizens on both sides of the channel can be kept safe long into the future.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, so here we are once again, with the council refusing to cooperate with the discharge procedure. this is probably one of the few issues i actually agree with the parliament on: that there should be more transparency and oversight over the use of the eu council budget. it of course begs the question: does the council have something to hide? well, let’s take a look at some of their spending. the council spent eur 55 000 to hold a staff party for up to 1 200 people on their premises in early 2018. the party included butlers, cooks, bartenders, champagne, wine and beer and a bar open until 3am in the morning. all very nice, no doubt. the council also spent another eur 25 000 for the staff and their children to have a party at an adventure park in belgium, and in the previous year, the council put a tender out to purchase 4 000 bottles of champagne. it’s no wonder the council doesn’t want parliamentary oversight of their budget. the eu institutions are public entities, paid for with taxpayers’ money. it’s outrageous that, certainly, british taxpayers have to pay for such vain and frivolous events, while at home we have front-line public services cuts. thank goodness brexit will mean we no longer have to give vast contributions to brussels. but because of the tory betrayal we are having at the moment and the never-ending transitional period proposed, the uk will still be giving billions to brussels for many years to come. but i urge all colleagues to reject granting the council discharge. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – i think the member’s talking about polls done in constituencies in the uk. what you may not know – i don’t know how informed you are (obviously not) – is that our electoral commission has looked into this and reported very recently – only a few weeks ago – that there was absolutely no impropriety whatsoever. that was our electoral commission – not a body we always agree with – but it said no impropriety whatsoever. and let’s just face it: we in ukip have voted to get out of this organisation. we don’t want the money. we want to be out of this. we’ve made it clear and we stand by what we say.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, my thanks to the commissioner, and mr sarvamaa knows very well that i respect very much his position in the committee on budgetary control and his work on these matters. for the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) however, you will not be surprised to hear that we very much agree with mr staes and i thank him for his report, because this was a very difficult situation. can i just say for the commissioner, for the commission and for members like mr staes, that it is when we have difficulties with such sensitive and important agencies that we see parliament acting at its best, when we have such tough situations. for the libe committee, we have just had a very experienced delegation, very experienced, and an experienced rapporteur, mr niedermüller, coming back. these are people who are highly independently minded, who have investigated thoroughly for our committee and taken their responsibilities seriously. they believe the improvements mr staes has mentioned have indeed been made – sorry, mr president, i am just over-running slightly, if you’ll allow me – they believe these improvements have been made as the commissioner has underlined how important easo is at this very sensitive moment relating not just to its activities – italy and greece – but to other files and other important developments. so i return to what mr staes has said. he is satisfied that the key improvements have been made. mr sarvamaa is right, there were improvements that needed to be made. for the libe committee, we have spent some considerable time on this, and indeed with the new executive director, and for this reason, we believe that discharge should be made. this is our recommendation. i thank the commission again and thank you to mr staes for an excellent report.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, we are debating whether to approve the accounts for the european asylum support office, based in malta, which provides assistance for the arrival and processing of migrants. the agency has a budget of around eur 70 million. however, olaf, the anti-fraud body, is currently investigating several former and current members occupying middle or senior management positions, reportedly over a culture of irresponsibility and bullying. indeed, as mentioned earlier, the executive director, was released from the position and an interim appointed. irregular payments made by the asylum office for 2016 are estimated at over eur 1.5 million. the courts of auditors in 2017 found there was inadequate or total lack of internal control and governance, and recently the asylum office put out a tender, worth eur 1.5 million, for branded promotional items, merchandise garments and apparels. this tender included christmas cards, virtual reality glasses, car chargers, inflatable flight pillows, leather goods, crystal glassware, gold/silver goods, ponchos, luggage, even executive gifts for vips. this is an absolute waste of taxpayers’ money, and the asylum office clearly has little internal control over its spending. asylum policy should be decided by independent sovereign countries in compliance with the geneva convention, not dictated or operated by unaccountable eu institutions. i urge meps to reject discharge for the eu asylum support office.
president of the european council. – mr president, i will start my report from the european council with brexit. last wednesday evening, leaders listened to prime minister may’s views on the negotiations. afterwards, the eu27 met in the article 50 format, with our chief negotiator michel barnier, to discuss the state of play. it was made clear by the uk that more time is needed to find a precise solution. therefore, there is no other way but to continue the talks. leaders expressed their full trust and support for michel barnier. since prime minister may mentioned the idea of extending the transition period, let me repeat that if the uk decided that such an extension would be helpful to reach a deal, i am sure that the leaders would be ready to consider it positively. president juncker also touched upon preparations for a no-deal scenario, an outcome which we hope never to see. and, of course, i stand ready to convene a european council, if and when the union negotiator reports that decisive progress has been made. the brexit talks continue with the aim of reaching a deal. turning to migration: in the course of our regular discussions, on thursday morning we had an exchange on our migration policy in all its aspects. the eu leaders want to strengthen external border control and deepen cooperation with third countries to stop illegal arrivals. the focus last week was also on increasing cooperation with countries in north africa, and a tougher approach to people-smuggling networks. leaders noted the union’s achievement in stemming mass arrivals of irregular migrants over the past three years, even if more remains to be done. we thanked the austrian presidency for its efforts to reform the common european asylum system and agreed that work should continue with a view to finding an agreement as soon as possible. the european council also adopted a number of decisions on internal security. some of them should be seen in the context of increased concerns and risks of hybrid, cyber, as well as chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear threats. one element of particular interest was the leaders’ call to create a capacity to respond to, and deter, cyber-attacks through eu sanctions. of course, this is especially important in light of the european elections next year and the active threat posed by malicious, outside interference in our democracies. during the euro summit, the eurogroup chair, mário centeno, gave an update on the finance ministers’ work on the esm reform and the banking union while the european central bank president, mario draghi, informed leaders on the economic outlook. the objective of the meeting was to keep up the pressure for concrete results in december. eu finance ministers should speed up their work if we are to achieve our goal, which is strengthening the esm and the banking union further. leaders also held a short debate on external relations, including on the fight against climate change ahead of cop24 in katowice. we adopted conclusions on taking our relations with africa to a new level – an issue of great importance – and in this context agreed to organise a summit with the league of arab states on 24 and 25 february next year. for many of the issues discussed at the european council – from migration to security – as well as the need to scale up the union’s presence as a global actor in many fields, the eu’s budget is key. at a technical level, there have been detailed discussions on the next multiannual financial framework, but, in general terms, we are far from reaching any sort of consensus. this is why i will propose a political discussion at the december european council. i welcome the intention that the consolidated position of this parliament is to be known by then. let me close with a word on the shocking killing of saudi journalist jamal khashoggi in turkey earlier this month. this was such a horrible crime that even the slightest trace of hypocrisy would bring shame on us. it is not my role to state who wants to protect whose interests here. but i know one thing: the only european interest is to reveal all the details of this case, regardless of who is behind it. knowing your sensitivity and determination, i believe that you will not allow for europe, the member states or the institutions, to become involved in any ambiguous game.
first vice-president of the commission. – mr president, on behalf of jean-claude juncker, i will not go into great detail on the october european council, as president tusk has already shared a full account of the results achieved. allow me to touch very briefly on the negotiations with the united kingdom. as was clear after the european council, the bottom line is that we do not yet have the decisive progress that we need. the goodwill and the determination to find an agreement as soon as possible are there, but it is also clear that we will not rush a deal through at the expense of our principles or our agreed commitments, most notably on the irish border question. with all of this in mind, we must now continue negotiating with patience, calm and an open mind. the commission and our chief negotiator, mr michel barnier, received the full backing of all leaders to do just that. it is time to deliver and we are getting on with the job. that is what we are focused on doing across all of the issues that matter the most for our future, as we discussed yesterday when we debated the commission’s work programme. when we talk about our future, we must first talk about africa. our partnership with africa has enormous potential for both sides. it must be fair and balanced, helping both partners to grow. this is why the commission last month proposed a new africa-europe alliance for sustainable investment and jobs, to strengthen the economic partnership with our african friends. this is about concrete action, taking forward commitments made together with the african union over the past years, notably in abidjan. with your support and that of the member states, the alliance will help attract investment in africa. it is expected to create 10 million jobs over the next five years and support youth employability through education and training. the external investment plan is well in motion to serve the ambitious objective of jobs and growth creation. it is well advanced in order to mobilise over eur 44 billion in both public and private investments. the project already in the pipeline will unlock eur 24 billion. the potential is there. the framework is there. now it is time to deliver results. – sehr geehrte damen und herren! die europäer messen uns nicht an der zahl der worte, sondern daran, ob wir diese umsetzen. ich appelliere daher an sie und den rat, die vorschläge, die die kommission bereits vorgelegt hat, zügig voranzubringen. das gilt vor allem, wenn es um die zentralen fragen unsere zukunft geht, wie etwa die wirtschafts- und währungsunion sowie migration und sicherheit. so müssen wir unsere wirtschafts- und währungsunion vertiefen, so dass wir gerüstet sind, bevor neue wolken in der weltwirtschaft aufziehen. der erfolg des euro hängt davon ab, dass jeder einzelne mitgliedstaat seine hausaufgaben macht – genauso wie die kommission ihre hausaufgaben erledigt hat. von den 40 vorschlägen, die wir zur stärkung der wirtschafts- und währungsunion auf den elfmeterpunkt gelegt haben, wurden allerdings bis jetzt nur sechs angenommen. das muss sich ändern! bis zum eurogipfel im dezember wollen wir, wie bereits im juni vereinbart, die bankenunion vollenden. das heißt vor allem, dass wir den einheitlichen stabilitätsmechanismus stärken, welcher die letztsicherung (back stop) für den einheitlichen abwicklungsfonds übernehmen soll. außerdem müssen wir mit unserem fahrplan hin zu einem einheitlichen europäischen einlagensicherungssystem vorankommen. in allen diesen fragen haben wir ebenso wie bei der vertiefung der kapitalmarktunion keine zeit zu verlieren. das gilt gleichermaßen für die vorschläge, die wir zur migration vorgelegt haben. wir müssen jetzt an umfassenden europäischen lösungen arbeiten, die langfristig wirken. die kommission hat dazu eine reihe von vorschlägen vorgelegt, unter anderem zum ausbau der europäischen grenz- und küstenwache, für wirksamere und faire rückführungen und zur reform des dublin-systems. es ist eine frage europäischer solidarität und verantwortung, dass wir in all diesen themen fortschritte machen, und das erwarten die europäer auch von uns. ich setze daher weiterhin auf ihre unterstützung, sehr geehrte abgeordnete, sodass wir bis zu den wahlen greifbare ergebnisse liefern. – de même dans le domaine de la sécurité. cette commission a présenté depuis le début de son mandat de nombreuses propositions législatives, dont seulement une poignée ont déjà été adoptées. je rappellerai que nous avons l’obligation ardente de garantir la sécurité de nos concitoyens. je voudrais donc que la vingtaine de propositions qui restent sur la table des co-législateurs, y compris celles concernant l’interopérabilité, soient adoptées sans plus tarder. il y a urgence à le faire, que ce soit en matière de cybersécurité ou en matière de lutte contre les contenus terroristes mis en ligne et contre la désinformation qui menacent nos processus démocratiques. nous devons garantir des élections libres, transparentes et équitables. je voudrais aussi ajouter que je me réjouis que le conseil ait convenu qu’il faudrait adopter d’ici la fin de l’année notre proposition de mettre en place un nouveau système de lutte contre les catastrophes naturelles, le rescue. nous ne pouvons pas accepter que plus de vies soit dévastées et d’économies réduites à néant parce que nous n’aurions pas su agir à temps avec toute la détermination et la solidarité voulues. la semaine dernière fut aussi marquée par d’autres sommets, notamment avec nos amis d’asie. ces sommets ont été l’occasion de réaffirmer notre engagement commun à défendre le multilatéralisme et un ordre international fondé sur des règles, cet engagement venant d’un groupe – l’europe et les pays d’asie – qui, ensemble, représente 60 % de la population mondiale et 65 % du pib (produit intérieur brut) mondial. nous avons aussi signé de nouveaux accords bilatéraux, notamment avec singapour. cet accord resserra nos liens économiques et politiques avec singapour et ouvrira de nouvelles perspectives aux producteurs, travailleurs, agriculteurs et consommateurs européens, à l’instar de ce que l’union a réalisé dans le monde entier avec d’autres partenaires. notre détermination commune à relever les défis mondiaux sera renforcée par un dialogue politique. les accords sur le commerce et les investissements seront maintenant transmis au parlement européen pour approbation, de façon à ce que l’accord sur le commerce puisse entrer en vigueur avant la fin du mandat actuel de la commission. la commission a aussi entamé la procédure visant la conclusion d’accords de commerce et d’investissement entre l’union européenne et le vietnam, et de nombreux autres accords sont en cours de négociation. tous ces accords vont bien au-delà de la suppression classique des droits de douanes pour intégrer aussi les valeurs et engagements que nous partageons, notamment en matière de lutte contre le changement climatique. en décembre, à katowice en pologne, nous devrons tous être à la hauteur de l’extrême urgence des enjeux climatiques et de nos engagements dans le cadre de l’accord de paris. à katowice, la commission présentera sa vision et sa stratégie pour le long terme. les scientifiques du groupe d’experts intergouvernemental sur l’évolution du climat nous ont dit la vérité et nous n’avons plus de temps à perdre. nous ne disposons plus de temps pour réfléchir pendant les prochaines décennies. le moment est venu d’agir, maintenant. nous devons travailler pour sauver notre planète et notre civilisation. au début de la semaine dernière, jean-claude juncker a également participé au sommet social tripartite. cette commission a mis les priorités sociales au cœur de notre action, parce que trop longtemps la dimension sociale est restée le parent pauvre de la construction européenne et je vous rappellerai que depuis le début de notre mandat, nous avons présenté une trentaine de propositions législatives dans le domaine social, dont presque la moitié reste encore à adopter. nous comptons donc sur la présidence autrichienne pour que d’ici la fin de l’année, nous parvenions à conclure tous ces sujets. décembre doit être un mois décisif pour l’europe sociale et nous nous réjouissons qu’au cours de ce conseil européen, aucun état membre n’ait dit que nous ne pourrions pas parvenir à un accord de principe sur le prochain budget de l’union européenne avant mai 2019, un objectif que cette assemblée a déjà signalé comme étant primordial. nous nous réjouissons car il en va notamment de l’avenir de l’europe sociale, avec en particulier notre proposition de doter le fonds social européen plus d’un budget de plus de 100 milliards d’euros afin de soutenir la mise en œuvre des grands principes du socle européen des droits sociaux, qui est un véritable programme d’action dans un domaine où les états membres détiennent l’essentiel des compétences. il en va de notre crédibilité à tous, il en va de la confiance de nos concitoyens, de nos étudiants et de nos chercheurs dans une europe qui est à l’écoute de leurs préoccupations et de leurs attentes et leurs apporte des solutions concrètes pour les protéger et leur offrir de meilleures perspectives pour l’avenir.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, mr bullmann, i would remind you, when you talk about right-wing extremists, we have to remember that nazis were national socialists. it’s a strain of socialism. so let’s not pretend: it’s a left-wing ideology; they want the same things as you. let’s be quite clear. (uproar)so mr president, despite all that – you don’t like the truth, do you? – you don’t like that. come on, it’s national socialism. (interjection from the floor: ‘rubbish’) a lot happened – i’m saying – i’m telling you – it’s a left-wing ideology, ok? don’t pretend. a lot happened in brussels last week, and it is sometimes easy to forget that some of the things that happened were positive. as leader of one of the most pro free-trade groups in the european parliament, we welcome the signature of the trade, investment and partnership agreements with singapore, just as we welcome the progress on the eu-japan trade deal and the adoption of the vietnam trade agreement. we also welcome the us government’s push for agreements – the trump administration’s push for agreements – with japan, the eu and the uk. these developments, we believe, are a signal of a more outward-looking eu, a re-engaged usa, and a global britain. however, it is difficult sometimes to convince the electorate when things are going in the right direction, when we had yet another summit with no clear outcome on migration or on brexit – as you said, ms grossetête. agreeing a withdrawal agreement may be complex, but many of us have been here long enough to know that there is no such thing as an impossible situation. we have seen time and time again the seemingly impossible become the possible, the inflexible become the flexible, the proverbial rabbit pulled out of the hat at the 11th hour for situations that have been described as ‘all or nothing’, such as a danish opt-out, or protocol 36 with the uk – legal experts managed to find unique solutions. in this case, either the seemingly impossible will become possible, or there will be no deal. mrs may’s position on the backstop isn’t a negotiating position or a bluff: it is quite simply a prime minister defending the constitutional sovereignty and geographical borders of a nation of a hard-won peace, born through generations of violence and diplomacy. it was clear that, as leaders sat on the grande place sharing a joke and a drink, instead of continuing into the early hours of the morning, there was no real sense of urgency around reaching a deal at this council summit. so the sooner we start building our shared future, rather than fighting about our shared past – our joint past – the better for everyone. what we need to do is redouble our efforts to find compromises that address the concerns of both communities in northern ireland, not just the nationalists and the irish government. let us look again at indicative time limits, possible sunset clauses, declarations, protocols and technology away from borders that allows checks away from borders. let’s look to the future, not cry over the past. the ecr believes that one way of regaining the confidence of the voters is a clear and united policy on the handling of the migration crisis. we welcome the fact that many of the policies now being discussed within the council were policies proposed by the ecr group at the peak of the crisis, such as speeding up processing returns; increasing funds and powers for frontex; seeking enhanced arrangements with third countries to stem the flow of migrants; and allowing countries to contribute in other ways apart from only relocation. if these common-sense policies had been adopted sooner and not dismissed as simply anti-european or populist at the time, then maybe the system might be in better shape now. this is why the ecr group doesn’t wish to see another national or european election go by, where brussels dismisses the results or the legitimate concerns of its electorate in favour of policies which actually have not yet reached a real result. instead, we should be asking countries how they are willing to help. some will take in genuine asylum seekers; some will help refugees closer to their homes; some will give money to help frontline countries. so whether it’s brexit or the migration crisis, the time for talking and posturing on both sides is nearing an end. it is time to focus on the future, not simply cry over the past.
mr president, i will explain to mr bullmann and then i will move on. i do get tired of people saying that nazism is a right—wing ideology. we disagree on this. but what i would say is that i believe in freedom of speech. but if i have offended you – and clearly i have – i apologise unreservedly. i have apologised. if i offend – and clearly i have offended you – i apologise unreservedly. i do not believe in offending my political opponents or offending my friends, so i apologise. i hope you will accept that.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i think under rule 164 of our revered procedures i am allowed to respond to the comments you made as president of parliament, some of them personally insulting. maybe you have a bit of a problem with your temper. i will ignore the personal comments you made about me, but i will say this: we do seem this morning to be struggling just a little bit with our history. to claim, mr tajani, that the european union brought about the downfall of nazism and soviet communism isn’t only laughable, it is very ungracious and deeply insulting to the united states of america, which made massive sacrifices so that europe could be free twice in the 20th century, and – to a slightly lesser extent – the united kingdom, as 30 000 british dead in italy will attest. so you can claim what you want for the european union, but please do not rewrite history. mr tusk, i want to thank you for confirming that it was theresa may who asked for the one—year extension to the transition period. i also want to thank you for your recent offer, saying that if britain wants a canada plus—style trade deal, you are open to it. indeed, it’s what i have campaigned for, for 25 years. i’ve always thought this was a better approach between our country and the eu than the one we currently have. now every proposal of course seems to founder on the question of the irish border, but given the slight state of panic that german industry is now getting itself into – and maybe that’s not surprising because a wto deal would lead not just to tariffs on german cars, but a weaker pound and probably a more competitive uk economy – the time has come to look for answers. the funny thing is the answers are staring at us. not so long ago, mr juncker in the irish parliament made it very clear that there were no circumstances under which the european union would impose a border. indeed, even mr varadkar, the irish pm, who is not usually particularly helpful in the brexit process, has said that under no circumstances will there be a hard border. this parliament produced a study by one of its own committees, the committee on constitutional affairs, entitled ‘avoiding a hard border on the island of ireland for customs control and the free movement of persons’. the point is, there are solutions everywhere we look. the idea that somehow this border is an impediment is, frankly, a red herring. the problem, i’m afraid, is that there is a rogue element in these negotiations, a group of people who do not wish to see a solution, who put up an immovable brick wall to stop us from breaking free, and i regret to say that it isn’t your chief negotiator, monsieur barnier, but actually the british civil service and olly robbins’ team. they signed up years ago to the european dream. they’ve been happy to take their orders from brussels. they are now out to sabotage brexit. they are indeed the enemy within. i think that unless the conservative party comes to its senses and gets rid of a leader who clearly is being led by the nose, then we will head to the december summit, we will head towards a humiliating sell-out, and we will head towards the united kingdom being trapped in eu rules for many, many years to come. (applause from certain quarters)
madam president, this european commission will go down in history as the one which saw the wheels fall off the federalist wagon. mr juncker and mr timmermans have been full of bonhomie in their personal style, but the content of their politics has brought the eu into constant conflict with democratically-elected national governments. the latest victim is italy, whose governing coalition has been told its economic policies – for which it has a mandate – are unacceptable to the brussels commissars. what was it that mr juncker famously said? ‘there can be no democratic choice against the european treaties’. so from the moment the commission was chosen as the eu negotiator for brexit, it’s been determined not to agree a velvet divorce and continued friendship but to administer a public punishment to the british people for daring to vote for a future away from the constraints of european union law. it’s not been motivated by a desire to keep trading ties smooth with its largest customer. it’s shown no understanding of the character of our island nation, inhabited by the proud descendants of those who saved the countries of continental europe twice in the 20th century. and i’m sorry to say it’s been aided in its mission by a weak and uninspiring british prime minister who neither supported nor even understood our desire for national independence. but do not believe the bulletins brought to you by has-beens from the uk political class – the likes of heseltine, blair and clegg – who tell you that by keeping the punishment up, you can bring britain to heel. the ordinary patriotic british people are, in fact, appalled by your antics and will not buckle. mr juncker says europe is the love of his life. the sad truth is that his commission is behaving like an obsessive: smothering goodwill and suffocating affection for her. in the time this commission has left, i urge him to steer a wiser course on brexit and much else besides.
madam president, do you remember ‘brexit means brexit’; ‘we’re going to make a success of it!’; and the promise of an eu trade deal that would be the easiest in human history? well isn’t two years an exceptionally long time in politics. there is now parliamentary paralysis and the conservative party has descended into bitter in-fighting, unable to agree a way forward. my country has been left ungoverned by the ungovernable. chequers is dead, but neither is there enough support for alternative versions of brexit being driven by a brexit syndicate of far-right think tanks. now the language has also become mafiosi, with talking of a killing zone and hot knives in the prime minister’s chest. this highly dangerous talk must be stopped right now. it’s now clear that the only way out of this deadlock is to hand the process back to the people. last saturday i joined 700 000 others on the streets of london, marching in support of the people’s vote, demanding a choice between this brexit shambles and staying in the eu. this was the second-largest demonstration in british history. i was delighted that it was young people who led this march and who spoke so passionately about our place in the european union. they have a right to all the freedoms and opportunities that i’ve enjoyed during my life. the movement looks unstoppable. british mps are now being bombarded with letters and emails from their constituents demanding a people’s vote, and there is growing cross-party support for the idea. it’s time for the uk parliament to let the people decide the best way forward for our country.
madam president, i want to thank president tusk for the update and insight into the possible extension of the transition period. like you, i hope for an agreement at the end of this process and an orderly withdrawal of the united kingdom from the european union. the public debate has moved on from the october council. we now know, from leaks of the text, that the eu will consider an all-uk customs arrangement for the backstop, but apparently not within the withdrawal treaty; i’m presuming wanting to leave the northern ireland-specific one in place. while this would be portrayed as a move forward from the eu, it is both a naive and negligent strategy. the insistence of a customs or regulatory border between northern ireland and great britain would damage northern ireland economically and constitutionally. it would ignore the principle of consent within the belfast agreement. it would leave a hugely controversial measure in a legally-enforceable treaty in exchange for a promise of further negotiation: not something that could be accepted.
madam president, i have listened this morning with a degree of trepidation to what i have heard. let me make it very clear to the great and the good in this house – if you want to listen – that we cannot and will not, as unionists in northern ireland, accept a customs or regulatory border between us and the rest of the united kingdom. that’s non—negotiable. on that we are united. now we have the backstop behind the backstop, and i’m just wondering where we’re actually coming from, and who is involved here. let me make my position very clear: i do not want to be in a position where we have no deal or a bad deal. i want – and the people i represent want – a deal that works, and above all that delivers. the backstop does not. it is a busted flush. it can’t deliver. so i have to say to you, mr tusk, why do you and mr barnier continue to go down this road? there are other ways. there are other solutions. is it not time we looked at other ways, rather than trying to push something that is never, ever going to work?
madam president, there is deadlock on brexit. the october deadline has been missed, the november european council is uncertain, and all because of paralysis inside the uk government, which seems incapable of reaching internal agreement as to what it wants. but already one thing is clear: brexit will bear no resemblance whatsoever to what was promised by the leave campaign in the referendum. they said it would be easy; it’s proving to be pretty difficult. they said it would save lots of money that would all go to the national health service; it’s proving to be costly. they said there would be new trade deals ready on day one: what an illusion. in these circumstances itʼs not surprising that many people in britain are asking to reconsider: 700 000 marching in london on saturday; opinion polls shifting in the opposite direction of what people had expected: not rallying behind the referendum result but moving the other way. ‘if a democracy cannot change its mind, it ceases to be a democracy’, and that is what many in britain hope will be available for them to do. and i know, mr tusk, i know, frans timmermans, you cannot intervene in that internal british debate, but please, do nothing to make that change of heart more difficult.
madam president, it’s a strange quirk of parliamentary procedure that you have to wait so long to listen to sensible british voices in this chamber, having heard the complete disgrace from members opposite earlier this morning. i cannot believe what i am hearing from my own government party – and, indeed, the disgrace that is nigel farage – criticising the civil service for not delivering their own fantasy. the reality is that brexit is failing and we are seeing people flailing around desperately, issuing insults in the name of the british government. it is not a strategy to threaten a no deal, effectively standing there with a can of petrol and a lighter threatening self—immolation. this is people’s jobs and people’s livelihoods we are talking about. nearly three quarters of a million people marched in london against the mess that is brexit. these are ordinary, decent people, who are sick and tired of being insulted by their own government. it is time now to stop this nonsense. nothing that is happening now is anywhere near what was promised in the referendum. it is time for informed consent for the british people if they want this mess to go forward. put it to the people, put it to a people’s vote, and we need your help in giving us the time to allow that to happen. (applause)
mr president, i am delighted to support some of the aspects of today’s budget, particularly the propositions that put funding and resources behind the fine words that have been spoken in this parliament to tackle the problems of sexual harassment. for too long we have had just words. after today, we will have what we need to address the problem, which is resources and people with the skills and the experience that we need to take that problem on, so i am delighted about that. the overall cost of the european union budget per week per citizen is about a pint of beer. the cost of this parliament is about a cup of coffee a year, but it is very important that we seek to bring down that further and i am delighted to see that propositions for a single-seat parliament are going through parliament today. it’s for far too long that we have neglected that issue and if the french are serious about it, and mr macron is serious about it, then he can take on this problem too, because it rests in his hands.
mr president, this is the 20th time that i’ve sat here and spent two hours nodding through budget increases. in those 20 years, there’s been just one fixed rule of every eu budget, and it’s this: it only ever rises. we’re way past the point where people are trying to match spending to specific need. the eu is now seen as an end in itself. there’s a general mood in this chamber – i think if you’re honest, you’ll all recognise it – that it is better for the eu to be doing something even if it does it badly, than for the nation states to be doing it more efficiently. now in fairness, this is an attitude common to almost every organisation. any bureaucracy over time becomes primarily interested in its own aggrandisement. its primary purpose becomes to spend more on itself and its notional stated purpose becomes secondary – if you’re lucky. but you’ve just got to ask the question: is there any sum of money that is enough to sell a fundamentally flawed idea?
mr president, in today’s budget vote, it is highly regrettable that the shortfall in funding for the european union agency for railways was not reversed, as proposed by the committee on transport and tourism, in this parliament. the agency must therefore be required to bear alone the recurring costs of a new information and communication coordination system, which is vital to railway safety. to answer the previous speaker, this is a specific new responsibility. it is required by european union law and it will apply across europe. although the budget resolution amendment did highlight that extra funding for agencies with additional responsibilities must now be found, this on its own is insufficient. i call upon the commission and the council to follow that up with concrete action and find the money for the european union agency for railways.
mr president, i welcome this report on the reductions of plastics. i recently had the pleasure of meeting winnipeg, a sea lion with a passion for recycling, at colchester zoo in my constituency. winnipeg is a bit of an environmentalist and enjoys hunting out plastic bottles and putting them into the recycling bin near her pool. it’s a fun and splashy way of getting across a green message to youngsters. and the zoo are also taking practical steps in its cafés, like swapping plastic straws for paper and plastic ice cream spoons for wooden ones. there is a real wave of anger about the 12.6 million tonnes of plastic being dumped into our seas every year. 62% of people who watched the bbc’s blue planet programme who were surveyed said that they wanted to make changes to their daily lives to reduce their impact on the oceans. people want to dive in and make a difference. it is time to help protect sea lions, whales, penguins and their pals from the devastation of plastic pollution, to clean up our seas and save wildlife that’s hanging on by a whisker.
mr president, i am pleased today to support this ambitious report on single—use plastics. i believe that the european union can – and should – lead the way in cleaning up the world’s oceans. the scale of the problem is staggering, with eight million tons of plastic waste ending up in the oceans every year. it’s an ecological catastrophe, but with firm action we can solve the problem. a lot of the plastic that’s in our seas from food and drink packaging can be replaced with something more sustainable. we can make sure that plastic bottles are recycled. unless we act now with determination, the effect on our marine life will be drastic, and who knows where that will end. this report is a step in the right direction, but there is much more that we need to do. but we can do this. finally, as a british mep, i am delighted and proud of the role that the bbc, and sir david attenborough in particular, have played in bringing this problem to the attention of the world.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i too thought mr zanni had turned up for the wrong debate, but then he moved very quickly onto the old clichés about the european union becoming some sort of centralised superstate. we hear a lot about false news these days, but really, this is a false narrative. just look at the facts: this union, its central administration, the commission, has fewer employees than the city of leeds in my constituency. its budget is scarcely 2% of public spending – 98% is national. no legislation can be adopted without the approval of both this elected parliament and national ministers – members of national governments, accountable to national parliaments – meeting in the council. it’s not actually possible for this union to act in areas that the member states don’t want it to act in. it’s in those areas where we need joint action. i was parliament’s rapporteur on the lisbon treaty. it was a series of reforms to make the union work better and to improve its accountability, a series of reforms that needed the grand slam of ratification by every single member state to get through, so again, a very high level of consensus about it. what did it do? firstly, it made our union work better. as mr timmermans has mentioned already, more majority voting, fewer vetoes, but a qualified majority still needs a very high threshold in the council. it has allowed the european council to choose who chairs its meetings, instead of having a buggins’ turn rotation with a new president every second meeting. it allowed us to have one external representative – the high representative – instead of two as we used to. it rationalised our work, but it also made the union more accountable. prior scrutiny by national parliaments – every legislative proposal goes to them first. they have an eight-week period to look at it before we begin on it. election of the president of the commission by this parliament; the council to meet in public when adopting legislation; the whole budget subject, and others which i can’t list because of lack of time; many other democratic improvements. this narrative is false.
mr president, this 2017 audit marks one of the largest year—on—year improvements, and i think for that we should give credit to the commission and to commissioner oettinger. but especially i want us to give credit to former commissioner georgieva. she was the one who laid the foundations, and she, i think, deserves our special recognition. as in previous years, the auditors have commented on the high number of instances where the member states did have sufficient information with which to identify and intercept errors at a much earlier stage. as president lehne said earlier, had the member states done that, the overall result would have been significantly better. it’s important that the public have confidence in the integrity of european expenditure, so audit reports do matter. therefore i take this opportunity to call on the member states and ask them to accept their responsibilities – but i also ask them to act on their responsibilities. finally, as ever, may i express my thanks to mr lehne, president of the court of auditors, and his team for a job well done.
rapporteur. – mr president, we’ve had some tough negotiations over the last few months, thatʼs fair to say, and the text weʼre voting on tomorrow is not perfect. but our discussion showed that we all share the same goal: workable legislation that targets the illicit importing of cultural goods for terrorist financing without overburdening customs authorities or small businesses. for that reason – unlike the commission – we recognise the need for value thresholds on most items. we already have value thresholds in the export regulation. for imports, clearly, higher-value items are of greater interest for terrorist financing. so for the commission not to follow that precedent and to have no value thresholds on a regulation that applies to the whole world – low- as well as high-risk areas – made little sense. customs authorities are already overwhelmed and unable to check most imports. so to work, this regulation needs to focus on higher-value, higher-risk goods. that is how we deal with customs issues throughout our legislation: risk-based, intelligence-led checks. this proposal – let’s not forget – was originally drawn up in light of isis’s control of large areas of syria and the potential for them to traffic antiquities to fund their activities. global strife, however, constantly evolves, so our work here needs to be better than just press-release politics, and legislation needs to be fit for changing risks. importantly, in the parliament text we also recognise that there are legitimate movements of goods for museums and art fairs that we shouldn’t in any way hinder. creating long delays to imports would have simply moved these fairs outside europe, where there is often less oversight. in the parliament we agreed from the start on a digital-led approach. cultural objects cross borders repeatedly, so information needs to be exchanged to allow previously-vetted goods to circulate freely. a fully-electronic system is therefore critical and, given these rules will not be applied until the early 2020s, continuing with a paper system, i think, would look ridiculous. we also recognise that small businesses will need help in complying with this regulation. many cultural goods, such as sub-genres of books or types of antiquities, are sold by highly-specialised companies, so micro- and family businesses are at the heart of the trade. the scope is fundamental to the potential burden of this regulation, but we have also proposed targeted measures to further help small companies meet the demands on them. cooperation with third countries will also be vital to tackling illicit trade. so i strongly support the provisions we introduced in this regulation to bolster efforts being made to improve the capacities of countries that are struggling to preserve their cultural heritage. by complementing those efforts with sensible import rules, we can act to resolve the whole supply chain for illicit goods rather than just isolating europe from a global problem. as i said at the start, although we’ve made significant improvements, this text is not perfect. for example, there is still some potential difficulty in cases where provenance is hard to determine – of which there will be many when dealing with ancient artefacts. this is particularly the case for low—value archaeological items, which fall under the scope of the final text, regardless of whether they are from high- or low-risk areas. it should be possible to import items which have been held legitimately for decades without the cooperation of source countries which lack documentation to judge the original export’s legitimacy. otherwise, we risk overburdening customs authorities and importers with an unachievable proof requirement that could clog up the system and fail to deliver on the regulation’s aims. i am optimistic, though, that, through constructive negotiations with the council, using their first—hand knowledge of customs operations, we can streamline this proposal and emerge with a final law fit for purpose. we want to avoid a ʻfortress europeʼ approach and unworkable requirements that might prevent the profiteering of isis but also devastate the responsible family businesses that make up the vast majority of the trade in europe. if i can just make one point in response to ms mosca’s points: for the uk this is a classic case in point. if these rules are too overburdening for european producers and the uk is outside that market, i can guarantee you that the trade will move to the uk, and no one in europe or the uk will be thankful for that. i won’t. i want to see us working closely together, and this text is absolutely vital to make sure we get this right in order to do it.
member of the commission. – mr president, in recent years, the world has witnessed the destruction of priceless archaeological sites and monuments and the looting of cultural artefacts by warring factions and terrorist entities worldwide. there is evidence that some of those artefacts are sold and brought into the union, with their proceeds potentially used to finance terrorist activities. for instance, early in 2018, a spanish antiques dealer was arrested in barcelona for his alleged participation in a wide international network trafficking antiques. the investigation appears to show that these works of art were stolen from archaeological sites in libya. they were looted by the terrorist organisation islamic state and were especially intended for the financing of terrorism. another example is the seizure by french customs authorities two years ago at charles de gaulle airport of looted cultural goods which probably came from the war region in iraq and syria. the commission is very engaged on the issue of cultural goods trafficking. the commission is also fully engaged in the fight against terrorist financing and presented an action plan aiming to reduce the sources of revenue of terrorist organisations in february 2016. within this context, the commission made proposals to the council and parliament to strengthen customs controls in two areas, one on the control of cultural goods at import and another one on controls on cash entering and leaving the european union. the proposal on cash controls has led to the adoption of an amended regulation, soon to be published in the official journal. the commission welcomes the successful effort of the co-legislators on that matter. on cultural goods, the commission adopted in july 2017 a proposal to prevent the import and storage, including in free zones, in the eu of cultural goods illicitly exported from third countries. the measure aspires to protect cultural heritage, to combat illicit trade in cultural goods, especially archaeological objects and parts of dismembered monuments, and to strengthen the fight against terrorist financing. at the same time, the right balance between safeguarding of common cultural heritage and avoiding undue burden on trade was fully taken into account. at present, the eu applies common rules on the export of cultural goods and the return of cultural objects unlawfully removed from the territory of a member state. however, with the exception of two specific measures prohibiting trade in cultural goods with iraq and syria, no common rules exist regarding the import of cultural goods into the eu customs territory. the commission’s proposal came as a response to a call for action from the european parliament and the council, from international organisations and from governments of the member states. our proposal provides a common definition of cultural goods deriving from the 1970 unesco convention and the 1995 unidroit convention, listing categories of objects which are of importance for archaeology, prehistory, history, literature, art or science. furthermore, a minimum age threshold of 250 years for such objects is introduced. this allows focusing on cultural goods considered to be the most affected and vulnerable to illicit trade. it also minimises the impact on national authorities and the art market in terms of operational and compliance costs as they already have experience with these thresholds, which exist in us legislation. the proposed regulation establishes a system of import licences and import statements that are required, depending on the category of the cultural goods concerned. the import licence, which implies a higher level of scrutiny, would target the cultural goods most at risk. exceptions to this rule are introduced in the case of the temporary admission of an object for scientific or academic research purposes and cultural exchange, or for cultural goods at minimum risk of destruction sent to the union for safekeeping by a third country’s public authorities. in order to improve the ability of customs officials to recognise suspicious shipments and to cooperate more efficiently with other law enforcement authorities in preventing illicit trade in cultural goods, the proposal also provides for the organisation of training and capacity—building activities for customs and other law enforcement authorities and awareness-raising campaigns aimed at potential buyers in the union. the brief summary i have set out focused on the main elements of the proposal. let me recall that this is an essential piece of legislation to combat trafficking in cultural goods, deprive terrorists of a source of income and protect cultural heritage. before i conclude, please allow me to thank both rapporteurs, ms mosca and mr dalton, for their constructive cooperation. i am happy to give you the floor and i am looking forward to your interventions.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as chair of the delegation for relations with iraq, i of course share the objective of tackling terrorist financing. however, i cannot share enthusiasm for this report. its excessive scope captures too large a volume of cultural goods, with the potential to create disruption to legitimate trade, not to mention burdensome, even unworkable, customs procedures. the original aim has been totally lost amid a desire to control the art market. this is of course of considerable concern to the uk with its prominence in the art world. items that bear no relation to stemming terrorist finance, even for example a map of 1900s america, would be caught up in this regulation. it is a sledgehammer to crack a nut. i had initially proposed to limit the scope of the proposal by recommending an age and value threshold. instead, this requires an extensive list of documents to prove origin, otherwise they will be treated as illicit imports. overall, i wish we had a more balanced approach that would help combat terrorist financing, but without creating such impractical red tape. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card question. – thank you, david, for taking my question. i liked what you said, a lot of what you said made sense. would you agree with me that there is an enormous danger that ordinary people dealing in the art market in small ways – in ‘déballages’ in france, in small markets – are going to be crucified by this ludicrous law, again, this neurosis about terrorism. it is pure orwell! there are ways of doing this. at the moment if auction houses see something that should not be on the market, they will inform the authorities. surely, do you not agree with me that there is enough legislation, we do not need more?
blue-card answer. – thank you, mr coburn, i know that you deal with antiques and are an expert in this area. yes, i am worried. i have a wonderful grandfather clock. i have no idea how old it is, it is probably 17th century, and i could never prove where it has come from if i were to move it somewhere under these new laws. i also have some stuff from a prime minister, i am related to a former prime minister from before 1900. so i feel that this is going too far and is impractical, it won’t work and it really doesn’t help. i’m all in favour of cracking down on terrorist financing. this does not help.
mr president, it is the first time that you have adopted common rules aiming to halt the illegal import and trafficking of cultural goods from outside the eu, often linked to terrorist financing and other criminal activity. these new laws will make it harder for criminal elements to profit from the export of cultural goods from conflict areas, as has previously happened with treasures looted from iraq and syria. cultural appropriation, modification or destruction as a result of occupation is never acceptable. i wish to mention a specific example from occupied crimea, where culture is a matter of great concern, especially regarding the conservation of ukrainian cultural heritage, the illicit trafficking of cultural property and illicit archaeological excavations. the russian occupying authorities have registered the illegal appropriation of the 32 historic buildings of khan’s palace in bakhchysarai, and launched large-scale restoration works in total defiance of international law, including unesco conventions. this threatens the integrity of the palace, which constitutes a site of national significance for ukraine, as well as an integral part of the cultural heritage of the crimean tatar people.
mr president, well iʼve listened to this and i cannot believe my ears. everyone says, ‘it’s all about terrorism’. pure george orwell. the best way to prevent the theft of archaeological objects is to rely on auction houses and the antiques trade, and bringing in all these regulations will simply destroy the antiques trade. it won’t help it. it won’t help you get these things back. it’s total nonsense. i don’t really know what you think you’re talking about. you really don’t understand it. it’s really about socialists terrified that people might pass their wealth on, through antiques, to their children. the gentleman up there mentioned that earlier. he was the only one that told the truth. that’s what you are all worried about. you’re terrified somebody might pass on something to their children, and that’s why you’re so worried. but in the meantime, you’re going to destroy a lot of pleasure for a lot of people. a lot of people like to go to flea markets at the weekend and buy things. well, that’s all going to be destroyed if, every time somebody sells a horse brass or a candlestick, they have to get 500 years’ worth of provenance on it. it simply won’t work. this shows no common sense, no understanding and there’s utter paranoia about terrorism. if the terrorists want to make money, go short on the markets just before they commence an act of terror. that will make the money for them. (the president cut off the speaker)
rapporteur. – mr president, i would like to thank colleagues for all their statements. we all have the same goal here, namely to tighten rules to prevent the illicit import of cultural goods, and there is clearly consensus for that across the house. but that doesn’t mean that we support all and every measure that is proposed, particularly those that could punish legitimate traders or keep european cultural heritage out of europe. that’s what a lot of this text does, and we’ve got to be very careful to make sure it doesn’t do that. the grandfather clock, for example: if that goes outside europe, you may well not be able to bring it back in. similarly with the point that mr marias was making: if those go out of europe and you can’t get the approval of the source country to get a licence to bring them back in, under these proposals you’re going to struggle to get european goods back into europe. no one wants that. i know no one in this house wants that. that’s the point that i’ve been trying to make in these whole discussions, and that’s the problem we still have with this file as it is now. yes, we need to be very, very strong on terrorist financing and we need to make sure we clamp down on that illicit and serious organised crime route into europe. but let’s not punish legitimate arts traders, people that have got books – because some books are still covered by this – and a whole range of other european artefacts that we want to make sure can come back into europe legitimately. that’s all i’ve asked throughout this process. we have a proposal on the table that i’m not 100% happy with. i’m not going to oppose it and i hope that, in the negotiations with the council, we can come together to get a final agreement that does look along those lines: do what everyone in this room wants to make sure that we hammer down that potential loophole on terrorist financing but that we do not hurt legitimate traders and legitimate people that have legitimate european cultural heritage.
mr president, good animal health is absolutely vital for improving overall animal welfare, food production and, ultimately, human health and well—being. like humans, animals do get sick. that’s the reality. sometimes it is necessary for antibiotics to be used, in a sensible manner. for instance, the use of antimicrobial products in livestock is important to restore full health as soon as possible and to stop the disease developing further in the animal or throughout the herd or flock. while preventative use of these products may be necessary under certain conditions, they should never be used as a substitute for proper feed, good hygiene practices in an appropriate environment and animal welfare standards. antimicrobial resistance (amr) in both animals and human beings is a growing cause for concern. i find this agreement strikes a good balance between tackling amr and also allowing safe and secure access to vital medicines. in the uk we do things slightly differently – i suppose maybe that’s part of the problem – than is the case in the rest of europe. veterinary medicines have to be prescribed and we also have a strong distribution system allowing medicines to be distributed by vets, suitably qualified persons and pharmacists, depending on the type of medicine. the system allows farmers and pet owners accessibility to a choice of essential medicines for their animals, but not antibiotics. i am relieved that this agreement allows us to continue with a system that has stood over the past decades. i congratulate all involved in this report.
mr president, the greens have been seeking to limit the use of antibiotics on farms for 10 years, and iʼm delighted to say that the outcome of this regulation on medicated feed is a major advance for human and animal welfare. this regulation will introduce some important rules to reduce antibiotic use, including a total ban on the routine use of antibiotics in medicated feed as a preventative measure and better husbandry practices to be adopted instead. only vets will be able to prescribe antibiotics in medicated feed in future, and only when there are clear signs of disease in the animals. the length of time that animals can be treated with antibiotics will be limited. for decades the routine use of antibiotics in livestock farming has propped up a system of factory farming where animals are packed into squalid conditions, only to be pumped full of antibiotics and other medicated feed to prevent the outbreak of disease. this has often been allowed even when an animal or group of animals has shown no sign of illness. this has encouraged appalling animal welfare standards and led to antimicrobial resistance, which has caused many deaths in our continent. with 91% of european antibiotics administered to farm animals through the feed, these new rules are a significant step in the right direction. weʼre delighted to welcome this achievement and would like to celebrate this major advance to prevent the growth of antibiotic resistance that is such a threat to public health.
mr president, as well-intentioned as this legislation may be, it will be a complete own goal if it renders british livestock producers uncompetitive against meat products from third countries where these rules are not adhered to. i have heard an eu official say: ‘well we are going to ban substandard imports and we’re going to stand up to the wto if it challenges us by insisting on reciprocal standards’. however, this is easier said than done, as it requires the commission to undertake a formal human health risk assessment, which must follow a defined procedure. the commission has not done this, with the potential consequence that large quantities of meat will arrive into the uk from farms that use antibiotics prophylactically, as a medicated feed. it is even possible that the antibiotics in this feed are of a type that the british livestock industry voluntarily does not use because of their extensive use for human patients. i urge the commission to delay implementing this legislation until either brexit is safely achieved or they have squared it with the wto. in any event, the legislation should use sound science when laying down prescriptive rules for medicated feed: for example, the threshold at which carryover in mills becomes a genuine issue. british livestock vets are high-grade professionals who need flexibility in how they prescribe and use medicines. if this legislation becomes too restrictive, welfare problems may ensue, with culling as the only solution. i hope that the future independent uk government will think outside the box as regards antimicrobial resistance, because big advances have been made in commercial genetics. among our wild bird population we find genes that will tolerate a bacterial attack and shrug it off after a few days of lethargy. these genes could be transferred into our own poultry so that medicines are not required in the first place. i’m sure that ms molly scott cato won’t like that, but it is a genuine solution. above all else, we must educate our consumers into taking antimicrobial resistance seriously enough to insist to the supermarkets they do not expect to see substandard products on the shelves.
mr president, i don’t share the enthusiasm of some of my fellow meps, but i do echo what the previous speaker, mr agnew, a fellow uk mep, stated: the risk to british farming is huge. what i really, really am concerned about is the degree of increasing red tape that this proposed legislation will produce. the sheer scale of surveillance and veterinary resources required will merely see more cost to the consumer. using trade deals as a control mechanism is equally unlikely to help, unless the european union anticipates cctv cameras in chinese and dutch pork farms and eu vets visiting usa—argentinian cattle ranches, french—vietnamese duck and uk poultry businesses. this legislative framework runs the risk of driving antimicrobial sourcing under the radar, into the cyber—market and potentially into the black market, and we’ve got no assurance that some of the eu trade deals will actually adhere to it.
mr president, it’s good that parliament is today making the link between animal welfare and the use of veterinary medicines. it’s no wonder so many drugs are needed when 300 million animals a year live their whole lives in cages in the eu, perhaps only feeling the sun on their backs for the first time on the brief journey to the slaughterhouse, many never feeling grass beneath their feet in their short, sad, exploited lives. this sort of industrial farming is only sustained by ever-more use of antibiotics – unnatural for the animal victims, injurious to human health, the by-products polluting the land and the air. any decent human being must know in their heart that this sort of exploitation is wrong. we, as politicians, have a duty to lead and to make the hard decisions people are reluctant to make for themselves. it’s about time we decide the endless cheap chase after cheap food and ever-higher yields must end. it’s about time we stopped corporate greed exploiting animals. i support these proposals.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, again this parliament and the commission show that they are out of touch with the public opinion. the british public have many times rejected road tolling and road pricing and since your attempts to implement road charging on british cars have failed, you have now set your sights on hgv drivers. this report will only lead to increased costs for hauliers that, like all forms of hidden taxation, will pass on to the public. with the rising tide of euroscepticism, how do you think the public will feel when their services and food become more expensive because you have increased transport costs? uk hauliers have already been hit hard in the pocket by paying for unnecessary training from the eu’s driver certificate of professional competence. this was an insult to the common sense of long—standing hauliers. not only did this cost far too much for the self-employed, it has actually caused a huge shortage of hauliers in the uk. so what is your answer to this problem? to make drivers pay even more to use the roads that they have already paid for through fuel duty, hgv road user levy and then vat to top it off. this is just bonkers. hauliers already have far too much paperwork to do when dropping goods off in the uk and the last thing they need is more paperwork. if you carry on at this rate, each driver will need a personal assistant and a filing cabinet in their truck just to meet your demands. in summary, this report will increase the cost of goods for our citizens, exacerbate the shortage in this industry and increase the bureaucratic burden on drivers across the uk. that is why i am calling on all of you to vote in favour of my rejection amendment tomorrow.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for his work on this and to the shadows as well. i think we have reached a good position. the european union, of course, is undergoing, like the rest of the world, a transition towards sustainable zero carbon mobility – a transition that is, of course, inevitable if we are to be serious about tackling climate change. the question that we are all grappling with is how soon we do it. last month, this parliament voted for ambitious new co2 standards for cars and vans and, together with the clean vehicles directive revision, we can accelerate this transition towards much cleaner public procurement in europe, as well, i think, as creating a renewed european market through the creation of, if you like, a premium market through public procurement. public procurement is 14% of the eu’s gdp and 75% of new bus registrations, and it is essential that we use taxpayers’ money effectively to procure clean vehicles. it is also important, of course, that public authorities set an example to the rest of the economy when it comes to the transition away from fossil fuels. but i have to be honest, i didn’t support initially the alignment with the directive on alternative fuels infrastructure (dafi) because i thought that it would weaken the targets but the inclusion of strong sub—targets are very important on this for zero-emission vehicles and i am pleased that we have managed to reach an agreement. i will, of course, be voting for the strongest and most ambitious targets. it is crucial now that local authorities and governments put their money where their mouth is and ensure that local authorities are properly funded to remove the burden of compliance on local governments and make sure that air pollution targets can be met without penalising local authorities that are cash-strapped. crucially, tomorrow’s vote in parliament will mean that we can get this file done under this presidency, because progress is so important on this. the ball is now firmly in the council’s court and i hope that we can get sufficient progress quickly.
madam president, i would like to use this opportunity to pay tribute to the important work of dame glenis willmott, who until a year ago was the leader of the british labour delegation here in the european parliament. glenys knew her subject because she had worked in the health sector as a trade union representative. her work on the safety of medical devices was promoted by the scandal of leaking breast-implants; an issue that seriously threatened the health of women, and i am proud that we have real experts in our political group working for the benefit of all europeans, and i have to say that my colleague mrs mcguinness is correct: brexit threatens the future health of people in the uk and ireland. it also threatens research: ground-breaking research is what makes medicines and health innovations possible – and outside of the eu, the uk is taking a retrograde step in terms of its position on the world stage.
madam president, this report is very important as our trade policy has implications across many other areas. as a socialist, i am proud to be part of a parliament that takes the initiative to reflect on the need to fight inequalities created by globalisation. european companies are responsible for many inequalities and human rights violations in the world and it’s our responsibility to put in place legal safeguards to prevent them from harming populations in third countries. regarding foreign policy, trade is a powerful tool for the eu to promote international law, particularly human rights. but to do that we must step up and improve the way we engage with partners in the trade area. free trade agreements should be designed so they don’t undermine national and international laws and should include strong mechanisms, including the sustainable development chapters, to be respected by all parties. commissioner, regarding the impact of globalisation and robotisation on the future of work, i wish to remind you of our conversation about occupational literacy at the recent eif debate.
madam president, trade and the markets are organic, they are almost a living organism, they’re made up of individuality and people’s wants and desires. if you try to stand in the way of the flow of trade in the free market and of enterprise, all you’re doing is being a modern—day king canute and you will get washed away. the important thing is to bring down trade barriers, to bring down protection, to bring down tariffs, to trade freely with the world, to make our people wealthier and better off. if you allow this to happen, what happens then is that, when people are wealthier and better off, they start to make their choices. they will then choose if they wish to buy from morally and ethically correct companies because they will then have decisions that they can take. it’s about people. employing and putting and imposing rules on – they’re all about politics and good intentions. all it does is make trade and the economy in european countries weaker and the citizens poorer.
madam president, i would like to say to the commissioner that the eu talks the talk about harnessing globalisation but talking isn’t enough. while globalisation has lifted many out of extreme poverty globally, it has increased the inequalities in our societies to breaking point. that’s largely because trade policies focused almost exclusively on trade liberalisation and market opening without any real consideration of the negative impacts on some sectors, regions and parts of society. just as the emerging eu single market needed a social dimension, so too does our trade policy. both need strengthening. our trade and sustainable development chapters need teeth as well as incentives for good behaviour. the commission’s opposition to trade sanctions for labour and environmental roles means serial violators fear no economic cost of human rights abuses. harnessing globalisation means setting clear rules, rules for business, and ensuring rights for people.
rapporteur. – mr president, i’ll be very quick, colleagues, but i have to do this. on behalf of the committee on internal market and consumer protection (imco) and the committee on international trade (inter) i’d ask that we postpone conclusion of first reading and proceed with the mandate approved for the negotiations with the council.
mr president, mr weidenholzer has gone for his flight. the text of the oral amendment is in the voting lists, it is presented by the s&d and ppe. i propose that we go ahead and vote on it. the text is there, it’s very long. i propose that we vote on it.
mr president, there are broadly three ways in which you can operate an immigration policy. you can have a points-based system where people arrive on merit and arrive with a commensurate sense of patriotism and pride, having, as it were, beaten off other applicants for their place. that was broadly the experience of the us, canada, australia and new zealand historically. you can do what a lot of europe did in the post-war era, which is to ship people en masse from overseas and put them to work for the government, that creates delays with integration, it creates regional and linguistic blocs. or you can just allow people to sneak in and then give them citizenship if they manage to stay long enough. and that, by default, is the approach that most western countries are now taking. now i just pose the question, what’s likely to be the attitude of a settler who has come by cheating the authorities and whose every interaction with the forces of the state in which he is settling have taught him to despise it? isn’t there a way of ordering the need for legal immigration so that we disempower the people-smugglers and allow those who have done the right thing and applied properly to take priority?
mr president, some days ago we all received the wonderful news about the supreme court’s verdicts as far as the case of asia bibi was concerned. indeed, you made an interaction on behalf of this whole house in a very timely way and in a very constructive way. bearing in mind that the proceedings are at such a sensitive stage within pakistan at this moment in time, i really make a request to colleagues to allow for the matter at this stage to remain in our president’s hands, because this house is standing completely unified behind the president at this stage, and if we are to have a debate on this at such a sensitive time, it may be that we in some way end up compromising asia bibi’s situation. so, i call on colleagues: let’s stand united behind our president and allow him to make representations on our behalf at this stage.
madam president, i am very proud to have been part of this clean energy package: incredibly important legislation that will affect all european citizens. we were able to demonstrate clear progressive leadership on all three files. it commits the european union to renewable energy and energy efficiency targets in line with the paris agreement, of at least 32% and 32.5%. the uk must remain part of this legislation. our work means we’ll be able to integrate renewables further into our energy mix as well as phase out high-polluting biofuels and increase industry’s investment in innovative technologies while supporting self-generation among consumers and local renewable-energy communities. energy efficiency is a fundamental part of the sustainable transition and is central to achieving our paris goals. it is crucial for the competitiveness of our industries, for future growth and job creation. improved energy efficiency targets will secure a better quality of life for those in energy poverty. for every 1% improvement in energy efficiency, three million homes can be properly renovated and seven million people lifted out of energy poverty. significantly, these targets must apply not only across the eu but in the united kingdom. the need for the uk to meet our climate change commitments cannot and must not be a victim of brexit. the targets must be seen as a bare minimum, not as aspirational. the uk must commit to meeting these targets as part of the brexit negotiations and to staying an active member of the internal energy market, for the sake of our planet and our children’s future. so i urge this chamber: what we need now is implementation, and we need member states to fulfil their targets and promises. we can no longer delay action, and europe needs to be a real world leader in combating climate change. in brexit, i urge the uk to take its climate change responsibilities seriously and to do the same.
madam president, we are all aware of the catastrophic consequences that pollution has for our health and the environment. it’s been estimated that 43% of deaths globally are caused by environmental air pollution and, if this is true, it is costing billions of euros a year. it should be our right as human beings to breathe fresh air and live in a clean environment. member states should actively monitor the activities of big polluters in their countries and take ad hoc measures to reduce pollution levels. however, regarding the eu’s clean energy package, i believe the commission should not interfere with member states’ plans to reduce pollution. the eu should be more realistic and understand that the world’s climate debate is coming to an end. the alarmist dialogue about man—made climate change should be replaced by a more realistic attempt at cooperation among national parliaments to reduce the levels of pollutants in europe. member states should not be struggling to comply with unrealistic eu energy standards. national parliaments should be free to exploit their energy resources, bearing in mind the fundamental need to protect their citizens’ health and the environment.
madam president, oxfam germany last week produced a report that claims that european union biofuels are causing widespread global deforestation, and ngo fern reported that people’s lives were being threatened by the european union’s set of clean energy policies. greenpeace have claimed that the european union is even choosing to ignore its own advice on biofuels, and another expert academic opinion indicated recently the damage to birdlife from windfarms directly affecting negatively the wildlife food chain. the european union is, and always has been, a monstrous threat to the environment. in short, the european union’s strive for clean energy, justified by its obsession with climate change targets, has been – and will continue to be – nothing short of an ecological disaster. and that’s not an epitaph i would want the european union to have.
madam president, i would like to draw attention to the work of dr björn haβler from the university of cambridge, who i had the pleasure of speaking to last week at a meeting facilitated by the humanitarian centre. we discussed improving educational outcomes in sub-saharan africa, where many schools are places of crowded classrooms staffed by overworked, low-paid and often under-qualified teachers. dr haβler told me about his work on school-based teacher professional development and stressed how, by making open educational resources, teachers gain access to more high-quality teaching and learning resources and are empowered to take ownership of them and adapt them to their particular circumstances. such open models radically reduce costs and have unprecedented scalability, and i believe that this house can learn from his work.
madam president, this day last week, john downey was arrested in ireland. the british government have publicly stated in a british court that john downey was not wanted, and the court ruled to that effect. the european arrest warrant used against john downey follows a campaign to introduce an amnesty for british state forces at a time when the spotlight is on them for their actions. john downey is an irish republican and a strong advocate of the peace process. his arrest gives lie to claims by mrs theresa may that the legacy process is skewed against former british state forces – a lie which was denounced by even the dpp and the psni. a lie feeding the british attempts to secure impunity and immunity for british state forces guilty of crimes in ireland. a lie directly linked to a british government currently in hock to a party, the democratic unionist party, whose leader, arlene foster, unlawfully blocked the funding requested for the lord chief justice’s legacy plan. john downey’s arrest was politically motivated.
madam president, in bedfordshire, crime is reaching crisis point with four murders in bedford and luton in the last six months, while knife crime is up 86% since 2014. demand for the police is at an all-time high, and officers are stretched to limit. indeed, the bedfordshire chief constable said he did not have enough officers to respond to 999 calls. the problem is well documented. bedfordshire police is underfunded. it is treated as a rural force, but has urban challenges. bedfordshire has the third—highest terror risk in the country and a rapidly expanding international airport. a higher proportion of domestic abuse offences happen in the county than in places like manchester, and 40% of all guns used illegally across my constituency are fired in bedfordshire. and behind the statistics are people who live in fear, bigger insurance bills, and grieving families. so i wholeheartedly support the times & citizen campaign. it is time to fund our police properly.
madam president, the conservative party continues down a path that experts have warned will spell disaster. for once, i’m not talking about brexit, i’m talking about fracking. the government’s own studies show that fracking will increase air pollution. the british geological service say that water supplies could be contaminated. there have been 37 earthquakes since drilling began at preston new road in lancashire: and what benefit is there to local people? a measly 11 jobs will be created. we don’t fracking in lancashire. the community has said no to fracking; local politicians have said no to fracking; the labour party has said no to fracking. it’s hard to imagine the conservatives doing this in their communities in the surrey heartlands, but they are running roughshod over the north west of england. it cannot continue. i am proud that labour meps have consistently supported ambitious eu proposals that put the protection of our environment first. and to the communities of lancashire who feel left behind by the conservatives, i can tell you now: labour stands with you and with all those standing against fracking in lancashire and around europe.
madam president, i’m not sure there’s ever been a time in my lifetime when there’s been a greater need for free, independent journalism. but this is also a time when we see journalists facing persecution and violence here in the european union and across the world. the nottingham branch of the national union of journalists have recently written to me to raise their concerns about the persecution of journalists – their colleagues – across the world. i know those concerns will be shared by journalists, unions and federations across europe and indeed across the world, and they have my solidarity. we need journalists to help speak truth to power and to help ask the difficult questions. every journalist everywhere must be able to go about their work free of harassment, intimidation, bullying and violence. that’s a right that we in this european parliament and in the european union must ensure is upheld everywhere.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. – madam president, cohesion policy is the eu’s main investment tool. all our regions benefit from structural funds. therefore, i would hope that all members in the chamber would oppose the suggested 10% cut for cohesion funds in the next mff. cohesion funds also provide good value. every euro invested generates an extra eur 2.40 of investment. therefore, our report calls for a majority of funds – 61% – to go to less-developed regions, for all regions to continue receiving structural funds in the future, a reversal of cuts to interreg, a reversal of the cuts to the co—financing rates, and of course further simplification – something we all call for. finally, president, commissioner and the council member, i would urge you – and the committee would urge you – to get an agreement on the mff as soon as possible to avoid delays in the implementation of further programmes.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, you discuss in your long—term budget your current proposals to spend over eur 1.2 trillion of taxpayers’ money across this period. that figure is almost impossible to comprehend and virtually every speaker i have heard this morning wants more. britain, one of your largest contributors, is leaving the eu, and yet you decide to increase the amount of money you want to spend. it really makes no sense at all. you want to spend eur 75 billion on eu administration, an increase of eur 6 billion. you want to spend eur 12 billion – a 22% increase – on the european defence fund that includes military mobility, collaborating in defence capabilities and further standardising defence industrial capacity. where is this money coming from? you want to create an eu level common corporate tax base, an eu plastic tax and take revenues from the failed emissions trading scheme, amongst other sources. the peoples of europe do not want more powers handed to unaccountable eu institutions which will just fritter their money away. they do not want to create an armed and aggressive eu superstate and they do not want to give tax—raising powers to the eu. this is everything the remain campaign in the british referendum told us that the eu was not. your elections next year, in spite of all your moral propaganda that you’ll spend on it, will bring in hundreds of eurosceptic meps precisely because of your hubris. despite brexit, unfortunately, britain will still be contributing billions to you for possibly decades to come because our government has sold us out. we will make more concessions and i think this is what you’re banking on: getting more and more money from the poor benighted british taxpayers. you need to understand this must stop.
blue-card question. – thank you for the speech; it was very similar to some others – there was an interesting list of things that you wish to change. i was wondering, when you’ve gone into so much detail about the things you want to change – the new taxation, the new spending, the honourable ideas that you put forward from a socialist perspective – would you agree with me that to enact those things there is no other way to do it other than to diminish the power of national states and parliaments to such an extent that really the united states of europe is the only way to enact your opinions and your ideas?
madam president, in the short time i have, i want to highlight two aspects of this report on the next seven—year budget. first of all, europe needs to raise its game on investment and in science and research. citizens in the eu want to see the union addressing major public health issues. it is investment in research that will enable that to happen. these proposals are a step in the right direction, but they represent only a minimum investment. eur 120 billion for horizon europe over seven years sounds like an awful lot of money, but remember that china invested twice as much as that in research last year alone. that is the context. if europe is serious about competing, much more will need to be done. my second point is about climate. although i would like to see the life programme taking a higher share of the budget, i’m proud of the parliament proposal to double funding in real terms. but, if we’re serious about meeting our paris targets, we have to make fine words a reality, and that means we’re going to need a clear roadmap to get to that 30% spending target on climate action well before 2027.
mr president, i’ve listened with real interest to this debate. it’s been a fascinating cross between some people who wish to close down some of the spending, and other people who have a massive wish list of ideas – increased spending, increased government control from this level, and an enormous increase in defence spending, which is extraordinary for an organisation which was supposed to be about trade at one point. this increase in defence spending is incredible and unprecedented, but all of the increases, all of the demands for more – much of it a good-natured and good-hearted effort to try and improve people’s lives – misses the point. at some point you will be losing the money from the uk – at some point when ms may finally gets around to it – but there’s an ever decreasing cake, and yet there is an ever increasing sense of ambitions, desires and wishes to spend. surely, for any organisation to succeed, there has to be a rationalisation and understanding that sooner or later you run out of taxpayers’ money.
mr president, this is a report that must be supported. the study of psychology sometimes gets a bad press, but it does teach us that the changes we make make human beings uncomfortable. but, if nothing else changes, climate will continue to change and human beings will suffer the consequence. climate leadership is not about playing to the fear of change. real leadership is about accelerating those changes that must happen and making them work for people. improved energy efficiency can deliver real gains for those struggling with fuel poverty. however, in reality, many in fuel poverty are hard to reach and can be ill—equipped to take advantage of the measures on offer. if energy demand and reduction is to go hand—in—hand with an end to fuel poverty, every member state will need a clear programme, ensuring that energy companies are better able to develop smart networks and incentivised to meet the social obligations of those suffering fuel poverty.
mr president, today we adopted concrete measures that will not only tackle climate change but also energy poverty that affects 50 million people in europe. energy savings and efficiency deliver a triple win: lower emissions, more jobs and cheaper bills, and as with all negotiations, we didn’t get everything, but we did get real progress. we will now have mandatory energy saving targets in place in all countries, and for the first time an obligation for member states to specifically help vulnerable consumers, creating more jobs, better housing and solidarity for those who struggle to pay their energy bills. this isn’t the end of the story, but it’s a step in the right direction to creating the right conditions for the just transition that our planet and people urgently need.
mr president, this clean energy package with its 33% renewables target by 2030 is too little, too late. however, it does at least encourage the necessary transition away from fossil fuels. i particularly welcome the new right uk citizens will gain to store and sell electricity they have generated at a fair price. this is a great boon for the community renewables project i have championed across south—west england. on biofuels, the news is less good. using food crops for fuel causes environmental damage and threatens food security, though agreement to end the scandal of wiping out rainforests to grow palm oil to put in our cars is at least a step in the right direction. in the uk, brexit threatens even this unambitious progress, since it was driven by a coalition of elite interests including those who oppose action on climate change. this is why extinction rebellion, a civic movement demanding urgent action on climate breakdown, is so vital, and we must ensure that the uk continues to match eu sustainable energy targets in the future uk trade deal.
mr president, i am delighted to support this report today. only those who would deny the overwhelming evidence would doubt the urgency of the transition to renewable energy. it is a massive change that is needed, and we need real political leadership to make it happen. one of the first things that member state governments can do is make sure that they don’t make things worse by allowing shale gas extraction through fracking. in my south east constituency with chalk aquifer geology, not only is shale gas fracking a backward step, it is a reckless gamble with unproven side effects. fracking has been talked of as a bridge to a low-carbon future, but the evidence suggests anything but that. but, if we are to lead, we also need to recognise our responsibility to ensure that those who work in conventional energy should be part of the transition to renewables and not its casualties. that is why we need to secure, as a start, the eur 4.8 billion just energy transition fund in tomorrow’s interim report on the seven—year budget framework.
mr president, the raspberry pi was developed in my constituency to get youngsters coding, but the phenomenally successful single-board computer could make a huge difference in the field of development because it’s cheap, robust and low power. take the need to keep vaccines at the correct temperature, as 150 million vaccines in developing countries are wasted due to poor refrigeration. german researchers found a raspberry pi, in combination with sensor networking, provides a cost-effective solution. six hundred and sixty million people lack access to water that’s safe to drink. photocatalysis with a raspberry pi has removed the need for large, expensive equipment to drive a safe drinking water experiment at a welsh university. and in the field in nicaragua, using a ‘pi’ as a local server means medical texts are now readily available to communities which don’t have access to the internet. development is never as easy as pie, but with this technology, it can provide a great slice of help.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i would like to say to you, ms merkel, that many of my eurosceptic colleagues had been booing you this morning, but they shouldn’t be in a way because the british should be cheering you. without you, we’d never have made it over the line with brexit – and i want to thank you very much for that. and of course many of these eurosceptic groups on the right, the centre and the left will come back here after the next european elections in huge numbers directly as a result of your immigration and asylum policy. your ‘we can cope’ led to a huge migrant tide – indeed, a stampede – that came across the mediterranean: young men coming from very different cultures, who were not going to integrate. young men, none of whom would have qualified as being genuine refugees, and i think in many ways we looked at it in the referendum and we said that we don’t want to be part of an increasingly german-dominated european union, and we certainly don’t want to pay the price for ms merkel’s errors. and i believe – having heard you today, and listening to senior french politicians over the last couple of days – that for us leaving the european union is now indeed a liberation. it’s a european union that we’re told is now to become an empire, a militarised european union, an undemocratic european union, a european union that seeks to continually expand to the east. a european union that has launched a new cold war against the united states of america. a european union that tries to rewrite history. and i think, a hundred years on from the armistice, we should be genuinely worried. the idea that this new militarised union is somehow a recipe for peace – i suggest you will sit back and think a little bit more carefully. maybe you should all reread history: the european project was set up to stop german domination. what you’ve seen today is a naked takeover bid. (applause in some quarters) so i think brexit becomes a necessity after this. and for the rest of the countries: ms merkel, you’ve had a long, successful career, but your political decision to open up the doors unconditionally is the worst decision we’ve seen in post-war politics in europe. is it not time for you at last to admit that you were wrong? is it not time for you to say to german communities and many others ‘i’m sorry for what i’ve done to you and the problems i have inflicted upon you for many decades to come’? (mixed reactions)
mr president, i would like to thank the chancellor for coming to the european parliament. it feels a bit like being in the bundestag today. french president macron wants a real eu army – in his words – ‘to take on the usa’, and, as he says, russia and china too. the french finance minister, mr le maire, believes the eu must be an ‘empire’, in his words. so do you believe, as german chancellor, in a new single european federal superstate or an eu empire?
mr president, i would like to address the chancellor. madam chancellor, the german people have been very unfortunate in their leaders. twice already in the last hundred years, they have plunged europe into disaster. german militarism caused the first world war, destroyed the nations of europe and ushered in communism. the second world war brought levels of depravity never seen before in europe. now you’re bringing about disaster for a third time. european political and economic integration is disastrous but, worse than that, you have opened up europe’s borders to untold millions of migrants. your decision to open europe’s borders to indiscriminately import millions of people will do untold damage to european societies for generations to come. the never—ending process of european integration will destroy democratic nation states. if britain had a prime minister with any guts or backbone, we would have left long ago. exit cannot come fast enough. (applause in some quarters)
mr president, i would like to ask you, ms merkel, if you think that it is a good way to thank our american friends after liberating europe, liberating france and helping britain and liberating germany? do you think it is a good way to thank them by insisting on a european army, and remarks by president macron, which were both unhelpful, that were taken awry by the american president? is this the way we should be treating them? and do you think that mr putin will take any european army that does not include the americans or the british remotely seriously?
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i strongly support the eu association agreement and the dcfta with georgia. it’s clear that there’s more work to do, particularly in the areas of judicial reform and fighting high-level corruption, but overall the picture is one of progress. i also welcome the efforts made to realise the visa liberalisation regime with the european union schengen area, as well as the passing of electoral reform, which will see georgia’s parliament moved to a fully pr system by 2024. as georgia prepares for the second round of its last direct presidential elections, the fallout from the street protests earlier this year is still clearly dominating the political and social landscape in tbilisi, particularly following the release of the alleged subeliani audio recordings last month, and i call for a full and transparent investigation into all the controversial claims that have been made. i also welcome the reference in the report to the eap+ model, as proposed by the parliament, and believe that this level of ambitious closeness between georgia and the european union is fully justified for the future.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mamikins, for his work on this report. it really is an important report: its job is to reflect on what has been achieved since the association agreement came into force in 2016, and – as it says – we welcome the sustained reform and progress that has been made. we also welcome the cross-party and popular support that there is in georgia for its continuing european orientation. we must ensure that we build on this support, and to that end, keep our focus on how the agreement is delivering benefits for the people of georgia. of course, this report also includes our support for georgia’s territorial integrity, and we must always be crystal clear on this. georgia is a front-runner in the region. it is a star in the region for its commitment to european values, underlining that georgia’s future is european.
mr president, i’m obliged. if one was to cast their mind back 10 years from where we are today, it would have been very difficult for anybody to predict that we would have an association agreement, a deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta), visa liberalisation, a resolution passed by this parliament on 10 years of occupation, a european school, etc. these are tremendous challenges that have been faced and achievements made by georgia. may i thank my colleague, andrejs mamikins, for this very balanced report that he has put before this parliament today. but we have been able to achieve it because of georgia’s chosen european path. so much progress they have made – particularly in areas of judicial reforms. today, we have that deep and comprehensive relationship that is reflected in this report. occupation of abkhazia and south ossetia – it is this parliament that has taken the lead, and we hope, commissioner, that your institution will follow and the empty benches of the council will follow as well. attempts to pick apart incorrectly this report inadvertently serves the agenda to pick apart eu—georgia relations, and i hope the people of georgia will see those attempts for what they are.
mr president, my problem with this resolution is it does not deal with arms control in any practical sense. instead, it is a vehicle for anti—saudi rhetoric, the usual tired comments about yemen and an opportunity to yet again criticise one or two member states. we all agree that a robust and ethical system of arms control, and in particular licensing, is vital for successful de—escalation of the many conflicts across the globe. arms sales to non—state actors are of particular concern and therefore the transparency of end—user certificates becomes paramount. yemen is a political problem and peace will only come through dialogue between yemeni factions, not through the response of international actors. the simple fact is that the international community has outsourced the yemeni conflicts to the saudi—uae coalition. we rightly decry the humanitarian crisis in yemen whilst ignoring the underlying issues. the un special envoy is doing a good job, but he is constrained by the lack of options on the table due to so many groups being excluded from the talks. let’s properly debate this, rather than this constant cheap—point scoring. if we are not prepared to intervene then surely we cannot deny material support to those who do so on our behalf. as the houthis deploy ever more sophisticated weaponry, including ballistic missiles fired into saudi arabia, the eu is strangely silent on this. call me a cynic, but maybe it is something to do with european business interests in iran. if you want real influence then stop this self—serving rhetoric.
mr president, i am obliged. commissioner hahn very comprehensively outlined the standards which are applied and the transparency that exists. member states of course have competence so far as export control is concerned. as long as we have the transparency, the information—sharing and the reporting criteria working properly and efficiently, then that gives us the protections that we have. what concerns me today is that it’s wrong that a report which seeks to set a framework for a comprehensive and wide—ranging policy development seeks to do so in a singular specifically—targeted manner. a snapshot approach delivers bad policy, and time and time again today i’ve heard that ‘saudi arabia this, saudi arabia that’ – a snapshot approach will deliver bad policy. don’t forget it is a vital partner for eu countries, our economies are interconnected, and for us it is a reliable source of energy. time will pass. snapshot approaches in relation to individual countries will not deal with the real challenges we are seeking to address.
mr president, consumers are willing to pay a fair price for comparable products and services. however, far too often fair price can be difficult to ascertain – as demonstrated by some recent cases in energy, food and the pharmaceutical sector. a fully independent and well—resourced national competition authority in cooperation with the european commission is the best guarantee for a well—functioning internal market for eu consumers. therefore, this text is crucial. thanks go to the rapporteur and the negotiating team for achieving this outcome. i particularly welcome that parliament’s position on the level of fines, as well as the calculation base for the fines, on the global turnover of a company, was retained in the final agreement. only if the ncas have the right deferring instruments available will they be able to keep companies accountable and change their behaviour to the benefit of the end consumer. commissioner, as a uk mep, i’m concerned about how to ensure that the uk competition market authorities ... (the president cut off the speaker)
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, once again the eu seeks to stifle rather than encourage competition. today it wants to regulate virtual currencies: currencies which compete as a store of value with the euro. the intention is not to nurture these exciting developments – which provide individuals with an alternative to being trapped in the failing euro – but to close off all escape routes for capital, both physical – as i mentioned before – and now virtual. all in preparation for the next eurozone crisis hurtling towards us like the milan express in the form of a collapse of confidence in the italian government debt. my message to investors regarding the euro is the same as to the british cabinet: get out while you can.
mr president, if we were going to have a un global compact on migration it should be one that sets out a plan to control immigration and protect the borders of nation-states. this global compact does entirely the opposite. genuine migrants are people who have legitimately applied to migrate to another country from their own country under the immigration laws of the country to which they want to migrate. people who force their entry into a country are not migrants: they are illegal migrants. this compact wants to solve the problem of illegal immigration by making it legal, thereby encouraging even more immigration into europe. it wants to decriminalise so-called humanitarian assistance to illegal migrants, so that aiding and abetting an illegal act will become legal. the whole process of illegal migrants gaining entry to a country and their processing will be made simpler and it will be made almost impossible to deport them. not only that, if anyone is bold enough to criticise these policies it seeks to criminalise that dissent by means of so-called hate speech and xenophobia laws. this compact is a plan to increase the mass importation into europe of millions upon millions of people from non-christian cultures in africa, the middle east and beyond. it would eventually make europeans minorities in their own lands and change europe and its cultures into something else entirely. if you want to know what that looks like, you only have to look at germany, sweden, parts of the united kingdom and many other places. several european countries have already said they will reject this compact. to prevent it becoming a reality, the leaders of the european nations will have to vote against it in the council.
mr president, the european parliament – and i want to mirror what the commissioner said – voted for the global compact and supports it as strongly as the commission is supporting it. because we didn’t just come up with this compact, we had meetings with the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr), the holy see, the international organisation for migration (iom) and with national parliaments. huge amounts of work and resources went into this, and i say to everyone who is trying to characterise this in a particular way that it is not legally binding, it doesn’t promote a human right to migrate, it does not threaten national sovereignty and it does not conflate migration with asylum. there are two global compacts. but it does establish something called multilateralism, and everyone in this parliament, even those who want to isolate or who want to limit migration in any way, should understand the realities of partnerships with sending countries, the realities of refugee and asylum flows and all the talk about these things – which by the way the austrian presidency is dealing with in these six months are a reality – and must have principles with other countries to cope with. if the previous speaker, mr karas is correct, i would say to the austrian presidency, why have a situation in the final days of a presidency when at least a quarter of your files are on the question here that we are talking about? why, why even attempt to pull out and show no leadership to other countries? there is no common council position on this, but you know what you’re doing? you’re sending a lack of leadership signal on a question of multilateralism, a partnership with other countries. this is something that will only promote a negative and inaccurate portrayal of something which is a multilateral tool that we need. i’m not going to repeat what the commissioner said, but he said something which we can all agree with, even those who want to restrict migration, because we will need principles and when we need them most we will call on this global compact and then it may be too late, because we have the lack of leadership shown in this presidency.
madam president, i’ve listened to this with real interest. people say the eu doesn’t work. well, this is entirely a great example of how it does. climate change fanatics come here and tell us that we’re going to have plagues and death and species dying out and the world’s going to end. they come here with that message, then the people who want to have more control and more power in the eu take this and think, ‘oh, this is great; we can say we’re going to tax more, we can say we’re going to spend more, control more, fine people, tell them what they can do, how they can produce things, and we can say, “if you don’t do it, the world’s going to end”’. it’s perfect, it’s a lovely symmetry that’s going on here. if you really want to make a change, surely the best way is through incentives. why not create an environment where companies and industries will make research look into this new greener technology that you want and actually make a profit doing it, rather than being forced into it from top down with the threat of all this alarmism and nonsense.
mr president, low—lying areas in both essex and holland will be affected by rises in the level of the north sea, so we swapped expertise. norwich and ghent are two cities with amazing histories, so sharing tourism best practices makes sense. by cooperating with our european neighbours and partners on challenges of an ageing population in cambridgeshire, on women’s professional development in norfolk and on food waste in bedfordshire, these are just some of the 112 projects that european funding for cross-border projects interreg have supported. they represent tens of millions of pounds of investment that would not have happened were we not in the european union. i would like to thank the commission for leaving the door open to britain to continue to participate in interreg, and i call on the british government to help protect jobs, businesses and the environment in my region by negotiating our continued access to these important programmes.
mr president, i support the proposals for the next seven—year budget framework. it is increasingly clear that it is in the interests of the member states and of citizens to reform the european union’s system of own resources. the tension that is created by the demands on member states limits the ability of the eu to run an effective budget that delivers added value. this needs to change. new eu resources need not add to the burden of the eu citizen and should reduce the demands on member state contributions. for too long, corporations more powerful than nation states have avoided taxes in ways that citizens never can do. only this union of member states acting together can change this. citizens expect corporations to pay their fair share. their faith in politicians will only be restored when politicians ensure that fair shares are paid.
mr president, we spend an awful lot of time in this chamber talking about money – it’s our main topic of interest. on this occasion, it was quite funny to see colleagues whose mandate expires in 2019 demanding the right to have a say over how money is spent between 2021 and 2027. but i think actually there will be a shortfall even before then. obviously, what happens in that mff is not britain’s business, but as i speak, the chances of britain leaving without any withdrawal agreement has hugely increased, which will of course have budgetary implications. there’s been one of those unfortunate misreadings of each other’s political conditions and the prospect is now being put of a withdrawal agreement that requires membership of the customs union. plainly, that isn’t going to get through parliament, and so we’re losing – i’m afraid – the opportunity to have had a cordial, amicable withdrawal process. there’s still time to put a looser, more skeletal deal in place that would cover the basic courtesies you expect to have with friendly neighbours, but that time is very short now.
mr president, climate change is the biggest threat that we all face, whether we live in a rich country or a poor country, and emissions from heavy goods vehicles are a major cause of co2 emissions. heavy goods vehicles delivering heavy loads to construction sites with steel and concrete, brick and block are a major cause of emissions in our major cities around the world. however, if we were to build in wood – which is up to five times lighter than concrete, steel, brick and block – we could drastically reduce the number of deliveries to our construction sites by as much as 80%. an 80% reduction in heavy goods vehicles delivering steel and concrete, brick and block to building sites around the world, replacing it with wood, would make a considerable contribution to tackling climate change. if we are serious about tackling climate change, we need to build in wood.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, i would like to thank the epp and thank the author very much for introducing this topical debate. it could not be more important and better timed. for my group, the s&d, this is a big priority and i think the previous speaker spoke very eloquently on why that is the case, and i should say that very directly to him. but let’s be very clear, colleagues. for years we have been warning about the threat posed by the collection of citizens’ data online by a handful of social media companies and the power of those who hold this information. the revelations involving cambridge analytica and facebook highlight the extent of this problem and show that the issue has now reached the point of threatening our core values. the author said that these were real threats to our democracy, and not virtual threats. the issue today, as the commissioners have begun to set out, is one of action, and my group is interested now in action and not just talking about the issue. seven months out from the european elections, after the presidential elections in the us and after the uk referendum and leaving the european union, i think it is about time that we talked about what we do, and the commission has begun this process. but so has parliament. so let’s be clear in what we have to do and let’s not leave this debate without saying it. recent requirements in the last weeks introduced in the united states, but not here in the european union – and also by the way, in the united kingdom – to verify the identity, location and sponsor of political advertisements, have happened, but not here. this is important, and the same standards should be applied throughout the eu. but this does not just reveal the data involved in targeting users, which could help facebook users contextualise political ads, understand how their data has been used, or potentially misused, and be able to respond to attempts to manipulate their opinion. we should have full algorithmic accountability and transparency for citizens to be able to protect themselves against any manipulation and to protect our electoral processes from possible foreign interference. we have now proven that this is happening, and we should have gdpr, as the commissioner said, but also the cybersecurity resilience which commissioner king should redouble his efforts to provide. and we should if possible – and i say this to the council – be imaginative about e-privacy regulation if that is also possible, because the facebook model was not just dealt with by the question of gdpr. but we need further tools and further regulation, and not just gdpr to deal with those further issues. we have to look at how political parties and campaigns are using social platforms for campaign purposes. we have called for a code of conduct to be developed with the participation of all actors concerned. and if not, then legislative action is needed. regulation is needed. this is not about robust debate or just aggressive democracy. this is about manipulation and, as the council said, sometimes about criminal activity and breaking the law. that is where the line has been crossed and that is where we need legislative action when necessary. but we also believe that applying conventional offline electoral safeguards, such as rules on transparency and limits to spending, respect for silence periods and equal treatment of candidates is essential, making it easy to recognise online political paid advertisements and the organisations behind them. banning profiling for electoral purposes, including the use of online behaviour that may reveal political preference. now is the time for action. we have spoken about the threats to our democracy, to our very core values. we at the european parliament have had the hearings from journalists from the guardian, we’ve examined cambridge analytica, we have interviewed facebook. now is the time for action. we have the commitment from the commission. let’s ask them to redouble their efforts, but here in parliament our democracy is under threat. let’s do something about it, and let’s have that action now.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group. – mr president, the shady, secretive constitutional research council (crc), chaired by richard cook, donated half a million pounds to the democratic unionist party (dup), then aggregateiq – according to opendemocracy – received tens of thousands from the dup in the last two days of the brexit campaign to target voters and social media. electoral law expert, gavin millar qc, has said that the electoral commission should demand answers from the dup, vote leave and mr cook about possible links and allegations that dark money was used to influence brexit. whilst we confront the cambridge analytica scandal, the british government refused to extend electoral transparency legislation to the north of ireland to expose this rotten saga. coincidentally, the british government is being propped up by whom? the dup – the same dup who refused to comment on the origins of this dark money, a party with no respect for rights, no respect for privacy and absolutely no concern for how the dark money was used for a brexit outcome that damages ireland, particularly the constituency that it represents.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, all reasonable steps must be taken to protect the integrity of the forthcoming european parliamentary elections. there has been some evidence in recent years of outside actors – and in particular, the russian state – seeking to interfere. there has also been, going back many years, slack control of the use of data harvested by social media giants and the use it’s put to, so vigilance is certainly in order. but i’m afraid to say that something else is going on here today: it’s the spectacle of the european political class clutching at straws. so many votes have gone against its wishes – from brexit to the defeat of hillary clinton, to the italian election result, and more besides – that an elite which is unwilling to question its own complacent assumptions is looking for a scapegoat. and that scapegoat is the idea that so-called ‘fake news’ has led people into a false state of consciousness, causing them to turn unfairly against benevolent rulers and break out of parameters for political debate and action set in their own best interests from above. part of the thesis is the contention that almost any form of nation-state affiliation represents a giant step back towards the terrifying ethnic nationalism that left europe drenched in blood in the 20th century. mr macron was at it again at the weekend when he claimed that nationalism was the opposite of patriotism. in fact, moderate, sensible nation—state preference is at the heart of sustaining the social solidarity we need to allow collective decision-making to run smoothly, and the revolt against the overreach of the globalist establishment is deep-rooted and based on considered thought. at its heart lies opposition to the ‘no borders’ ideology being pushed by the left and much of the centrist establishment too, which threatens to shatter social cohesion across europe. working—class voters in more prosperous european countries – people who depend on selling their labour for their income – are also in revolt against the creation of a single european labour market, which they quite correctly judge to be against their own best interests. at a time like this, a wise european union would be loosening the corset, allowing more room for national decision-making and respecting the mandates handed down to national governments by national electorates, but the eu we have is doing the opposite, picking fights with member nations on an almost weekly basis. my advice, therefore, is to prepare for an election result next year that most of you are not going to like, and don’t blame it on russian bots or fake news because it will be a real message considered and profoundly meant from the people to the political class.
mr president, with tongue firmly in cheek, we all know that the european union doesn’t do electoral interference – ‘well, of course not!’ but this, of all days – boy, doesn’t brussels do irony! – the eu’s cyber enemies would be proud of the choreographed showdown on the deal that our prime minister, theresa may, is presenting to cabinet as we speak. i’d like to find one page out of the 500 that isn’t the product of massive, manipulative and misguided interference by the european union in a democratic decision. tell me just where the european union hasn’t interfered. what about the scottish independence referendum? the eu first refused to comment, and then – just on the eve of purdah – josé manuel barroso threatened voters in scotland with european union expulsion if they dared to assert themselves. a threat to the thousands of european union scots citizens, by the way. for the european union, those who assert the right to be different are labelled ‘populist’. look, stop the interference in free speech, free thought and free media and free journalistic press.
mr president, a hundred years after the first world war, many have reflected on the risk of war returning to our continent, but in reality the next war has already begun. it’s a culture war, an information war, and we’re all conscripted into it, many of us without our knowing. the foreign actors distorting our elections are coming from both russia and the usa. last week shahmir sanni, the vote leave whistle—blower, won his unfair dismissal case that exposed the activities of nine lobby groups seeking to undermine action on climate change and help the tax avoiders, all working out of 55 tufton street in london. we need this activity by what we have called the ‘brexit syndicate’ called out as propaganda and not given oxygen by the bbc. a year ago, the prime minister drew attention to russian involvement in british politics, but she is refusing to say whether she blocked an investigation into arron banks’ russian connections, and we have learned that the mueller investigation is making similar inquiries with regard to nigel farage. welcome to the culture war. it’s a war between democracy and authoritarianism. which side are you on?
mr president, technology has always evolved – and will continue to evolve – and our laws need to evolve to keep pace with it. so we should avoid hysteria, but we do need to learn the lessons of where our laws are not fit for purpose. and we need to learn the lessons of our most recent experience, brexit. i come from scotland, where we comprehensively rejected brexit, but it remains very much our problem. because the fact is, colleagues, the uk’s a more developed democracy than most, but the uk’s laws on campaign finance, data protection, election transparency and the transparency of actors – foreign and domestic – have been proven to be not fit for purpose, and the use of technology – the abuse of data – was very much part of that campaign by a deeply dubious leave campaign which wholesale abused the law. so i support the measures which we’ve heard about and rise to bring some urgency to them. i commissioned james patrick to analyse scottish twitter, and he produced this report. he analysed 27 000 twitter accounts, 36 million tweets and found a staggering number that at least 4.25% and rising to at least 12.24% scottish twitter accounts are potentially malign. if it’s happening in scottish twitter, colleagues, it’s happening in your democracy as well, and i fear that our laws are not fit for purpose across our house and our all our democracies are under threat. commissioners, i wish you well in your efforts.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, this regulation provides a vital chance to help get a better deal for rail passengers. the european parliament must not fail them by caving in to rail industry lobbying. the top complaint of train travellers is delays and cancellations. that fact is not just anecdotal, but is acknowledged independently by the international rail regulators’ group and the european court of auditors. so, particularly problematic is the commission’s proposal for the introduction of a so—called ‘force majeure’ clause, seeking to allow rail companies to refuse to pay compensation to passengers for delays and cancellations in certain circumstances, including severe weather conditions. this aims to reverse a key passenger—friendly decision of the eu court of justice in 2013. worse still, is the version of ‘force majeure’ proposed by our own european parliament committee on transport and tourism (tran), which could even be interpreted to include lawful strikes and other industrial action. whilst the tran committee’s amendments do have some good points, as our rapporteur has explained, they allow exemptions for suburban rail services, despite evidence showing that these are the most widely used services by passengers across europe, especially younger people. under the tran committee’s amendments, passengers will only have the right to onward travel on the next train in the course of delays and cancellations where a connection is missed in the course of a single transport contract. in real life, this is often not the case when tickets are bought separately. so, in the vote tomorrow, i urge all meps to support the alternative approach tabled by myself and many others: in particular, do not make rail passengers suffer still further for the consequences of external factors causing problems with their journeys.
mr president, whilst we always welcome better provisions for passengers’ rights, this report does not go far enough and threatens to undermine long-standing practices in the uk rail industry. our compensation measures are already well established and clear, the system works well and passengers understand it. by reducing the scope for when companies must compensate passengers, this report will dumb down what we’ve achieved and undermine our high standards. the report also contains some concerning provisions for passengers with reduced mobility. the requirement that they must certify service animals, such as guide dogs, before boarding a train is nonsensical. in addition, the varying notice period required for those needing assistance is deeply confusing. differences between large urban and small rural stations must be acknowledged, but national transport departments should liaise closely with rail companies and consumer groups to decide on these matters. finally, we all want to see greater use of bicycles, but the requirement that all services have eight designated spaces is wholly impractical. many operators would have to order new rolling stock to meet the demand, and it could result in chronic overcrowding in rush hour services and again such issues as this should be determined locally and nationally. for those reasons, the british conservatives will be voting against the report at this time, but we do hope that the institutions can improve the text.
madam president, developing europe’s rail network as a sustainable alternative to air travel over long distances is a perfectly sensible objective, but, if it is going to be successful then the service offered and available to people needs to be comparable. we have clear rules on air travel compensation and we need the same for the railways because those rules will be an incentive for rail companies to improve their services and to make sure that trains aren’t cancelled and that they run on time. it’s not a complicated principle is it? you advertise a service, the customer buys the service and, if the service fails to deliver, then the consumer is entitled to redress. really quite simple. that is why we’ve re-submitted amendments, that is why i’ve re—signed them, and that is why i will be voting for them tomorrow. the point of this recast must be to ensure that public transport is run for the benefit of the travelling public and not solely for the benefit of the people who run the railways.
madam president, i want to reinforce specifically the need for stronger, indeed mandatory, missed-connection protection, to ensure an effective european rail system that works in the interests of passengers. i don’t know where exactly in this chamber seat no 61 is, but those who travel regularly on the railways may know about the very popular, useful and informative blog run by the ‘man in seat 61’. he broke down into simple, straightforward terms the importance of this measure a few days ago when he said this: ‘implementing missed-connection protection is absolutely essential to stop passengers having to pay huge penalties to [train] operator b because of [train] operator a’s delays, rendering rail travel risky and discouraging people from using it.’ we in this parliament need to be encouraging people to use the railways. being a member of the european parliament from the uk, i’m all too used to delays on the railways. this parliament and the commission cannot delay taking action on these issues in the interests of passengers.
rapporteur. – madam president, this recast updates the current eu legislation in line with the latest decisions made at international level under the stockholm convention. there is no disagreement in this house that this is necessary. the latest research on persistent organic pollutants (pops) shows a worrying persistence of previously banned substances, particularly in the polar regions, and it’s important that we keep up the momentum on this. the report includes a new role for the european chemicals agency (echa), giving them much more involvement in certain tasks. this is a move that i strongly welcome. i am aware that not all members of this house are supportive of echa – they don’t particularly support it as an organisation – but in my former role as parliament’s echa liaison person for many years, i witnessed at first hand the excellent work that they do. i very much welcome the use of their in-house expertise on pops, as opposed to using outside consultants. that is a good move forward. we’re limited in what we can change here, as the stockholm convention supersedes the eu legislation, so this report has been relatively straightforward compared with previous legislation, and indeed with other things that i’ve worked on. but there are issues, and there is one particular issue – the problem of plastics recycling – which remains to be resolved in the vote tomorrow. this concerns the substance decabde. for political reasons which are not clear to me – but which, i would say, just amount to negligence – we find ourselves in a position where this substance was not granted a recycling exemption at un level, despite the fact that less stable substances from the same chemical group have recycling derogations in place, and these were not removed by the stockholm convention. i sought to address this issue at committee level, but the oral amendment that i proposed was rejected by meps from some of the political groups. this was regrettable because it would have been best to have the issue dealt with at committee level. so i have re-tabled the same amendment – that’s amendment 30 – for plenary. i cannot emphasise strongly enough the importance of this amendment when it comes to the eu’s circular economy objectives. amendment 30 concerns five substances, four of which currently have individual recycling derogations of 1 000 ppm, and it imposes a limit of 1 000 ppm for all five combined. that’s a major net benefit environmentally and it is in line with limits set out in the current restriction of hazardous substances directive. the fifth substance, decabde, has the same recycling derogation under the reach (registration, evaluation and authorisation of chemicals) directive, a limit agreed only last year. i also include in my amendment a review of this limit in five years’ time. without this amendment, the vast majority of plastics recyclers dealing with weee (waste electrical and electronic equipment) and end—of—life vehicles would have to dramatically reduce their activities or stop altogether. this would particularly and disproportionately affect smes. we are talking about 900 000 tons of end—of—life vehicle plastic waste each year, which will probably end up being exported outside europe for recycling, where standards are far less rigorous and there is a real risk of it finding its way illegally into products such as toys, which are then imported into europe. if we deal with it and recycle it within europe to high standards, that should not, and cannot, happen. amendment 37 seeks to impose a more ambitious target and, while i fully support ambition, its adoption would actually be negative rather than positive. what’s more, my amendment 30 includes a review of the limit in five years’ time and this is crucially important. we have a strong commitment to the circular economy, and i hope that members will bear that in mind when considering how to vote on these amendments.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank colleagues for their contributions, some of which were more useful than others. i am particularly concerned at the attempts by one or two members to roll into pops (persistent organic pollutants) discussions around agri-chemicals such as glyphosate. it is utterly irresponsible to stand up in this parliament and imply that glyphosate is a pop. it is not. this legislation is far too serious to play those sorts of politics with. so, let’s restrict ourselves to dealing with the persistent organic pollutants. as i said in my opening address, there is no disagreement here that we all would like to eliminate them. the point is about how we do it, the rate at which we do it and the methodology. for me, i would just make my point again, yes, it’s true, as ms rivasi said, that there are studies that show that decabde (decabromodiphenyl ether), for example, has turned up in hair brushes. this is appalling, but i will bet my life that those hairbrushes were produced in the far east. they were not produced in europe, and they come from bad recycling. if we want to prevent that from happening, if we want the recycling to take place in europe, by european companies bound by european rules, which will not then put the recyclates on the market for products like food contact materials and toys, according to our rules, then we have to take control of that process. pretending that we’re not going to recycle at all when we have legislation like the elv (end-of-life vehicles) directive and the weee (waste electrical & electronic equipment) directive in place is frankly ostrich-like. so, i ask members yet again to re-examine their support of amendment 30 or amendment 37, and to look carefully at amendment 30, which not only sets out recycling reductions – because it takes four products, rolls them into five and gives the absolute maximum for all five, which is actually a reduction to 20% – but it also has a review mechanism which would allow us in five years, if we can get best available technology in place in the european recycling industry, to recycle these products. it would allow us to be in a position where we could actually eliminate these. if you go ahead with amendment 37, that is not an option on the table.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, in a world where the rule of law is under threat, we must protect the integrity and independence of public officials. in this context, there is deep concern about the charges lodged against greece’s top statistician, mr andreas georgiou, who was responsible for re-calculating the country’s economic statistics, in accordance with eu law, in 2010. his case represents the trial of evidence-based policy-making and it is a test of the independence of state officials. policy-makers, as well as the general public, require high-quality statistics in order to make informed decisions within our democracies. any attempt to undermine independent experts should ring alarm bells. in this case, there is a suspicion that a legal process is being used as a tool to scapegoat statisticians for the impact of national economic policies. the commission should take steps to protect the independence and integrity of the work of statisticians and to ensure that they are not subject to political pressure. i would like to agree with mr gualtieri and also to express my support for mr georgiou.
mr president, as europeans we stand to lose most from the collapse of the inf treaty, given that we are within range of russian missiles. for trump, it isn’t about pressurising russia into compliance, it is about strategic competition with china and strengthening us military capabilities in the pacific. that means the european security architecture is no longer, by definition, the us’s principal security interest. my questions were going to be for the external action service, but unfortunately there’s no representative here from them or the commission. so i’m going to ask the austrian presidency this. do you think we can still rescue the inf treaty and, if not, what is the back—up plan for keeping nuclear missiles out of europe? secondly, are there any plans for a larger arms control framework that includes china and other states? finally, how can the eu revive disarmament in the context of deep scepticism about arms control in china and in the us?
mr president, president trump’s decision to withdraw from the intermediate-range nuclear forces (inf) treaty has been widely criticised, for good reason. former military officials described the treaty as a bedrock of arms control. the 1987 treaty eliminated thousands of deadly medium-range missiles in europe, helping to end the cold war. scrapping the treaty will undermine international security, could prompt a new arms race and certainly increases the risks of a nuclear war. i speak as a lifelong peace campaigner. the inf treaty occupies a special place in peace history – in our history. it was prompted by the huge nuclear disarmament movements that swept across europe and the usa in the 1980s. in some respects, the peace movement owns this treaty, and we must do what we can to ensure it is not taken away. let’s also remember that in this house, on 27 october 2016, we voted – by a large majority – to support the un process to make nuclear weapons illegal. we subsequently honoured the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons, which won the 2017 nobel peace prize.
mr president, my first child was born in 1987, and having grown up under the shadow of the mushroom cloud, i can remember the relief i felt at the disarmament process led by mikhail gorbachev and ronald reagan. the treaty on intermediate-range nuclear forces (inf) in europe that trump is sabotaging dates from that era. it was a step on the path away from the cold war and led to the destruction of 3000 missiles. trump’s reckless actions could launch the world into a new, deadly arms race. this time, it would not be just between two superpowers, but open to any immoral regime that could find the cash to join in. how can the european nuclear states argue that countries like korea and pakistan should not have the very nuclear weapons that they claim is so vital to their own security? as the actions of the authoritarians polarise the foreign policy debate, britain and france should show leadership by unilaterally dismantling their nuclear weapons and signing up to the international campaign to abolish nuclear weapons (ican) treaty on the prohibition of such weapons, becoming the first un security council members to do so.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, the entire world has been gripped by the migration crisis. it’s not just in the european union, but it’s also in the united states. we share a common challenge when it comes to dealing with the millions of people who are trying to illegally cross borders. in recent weeks, the united states has seen a migrant caravan consisting of thousands of people travelling from central america to the us border. we’re witnessing an organised mass migration of economic migrants on a scale that has never been seen before and this, quite simply, is economic migration. both here and in the eu and over there in the us there are legitimate and legal routes for seeking genuine asylum, but these migrant caravans should not lead to permanent residence in the us. it has been said in this debate that they are not criminals. but if you enter a country illegally, you are breaking laws and you are therefore a criminal. i think president trump is right to send thousands of us troops to the border to stop the illegal entry of the migrants and to protect their national security. let’s just point out that the migrants are now in mexico. why are they not staying in mexico? there are 129 million people who live in mexico quite happily. are we saying that everybody in mexico should be leaving mexico to go to america as well because it’s unsafe there, or are we saying that the migrants should stay in mexico now that they are there? while some argue that the numbers of migrants in the caravan are small, they set a precedent and encourage others to make this dangerous journey to the us. since 2017, multiple caravans have headed to the border, and each time they are getting bigger and bigger. on our own soil we have seen the effects of mass migration, especially the terrible death toll of migrants crossing turbulent seas in boats completely unfit for that purpose. international law is being broken and eu treaties are just being ignored. a government’s main duty is the protection and the security of its citizens. this includes securing your nation’s border – it’s just common sense. leaders in europe would do well to learn from president trump’s response to what’s happening at the us border instead of just continually pointing their fingers and complaining.
madam president, as we speak, 7000 people walk towards the united states of america in search of a better life. these people are from some of the poorest and most violent countries in the region, and trump will greet them with a barbed wire fence and the strongest army in the entire world. i have previously spoken here about the barbarity of the current american administration when they were forcibly separating children from their parents at the border. now they are brutally closing down the door down on desperate people who want to contribute to their economy. we welcome mexico’s ‘estás en tu casa’ programme, which provides healthcare and jobs to those migrants who wish to stay – exactly what the usa and the eu should be doing. the statue of liberty welcomed the world’s huddled masses yearning to breathe free. i hope everyone in this chamber will agree with me, and call for the usa to honour this. the usa must respect the principle of non—refoulement and welcome those who are fleeing desperate situations as fellow human beings. only by doing this can trump truly make america great again.
madam president, thousands of poor families and unaccompanied children from central america are on the move, travelling to the mexican usa border fleeing violence, poverty and unsustainable lives. 38—year—old josé vega, who is travelling with the caravan from honduras, said: ‘my hope is someday to build a house for my family to live in peace, to go from sandals to shoes – not to be rich, but to be in peace’. isn’t that the simple desire of all of us? president trump’s cruel response, however, is sadly predictable. he has threatened military violence and he uses the racist, xenophobic language that has become a hallmark of his presidency. trump has become the bully in the school playground. he has scant regard for human rights and uses his position to stir up hate. he is unfit for public office, and he shames his country by his words and actions.
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, you may or may not be a trump fan, but at least president trump does not allow politically correct thinking to muddy his vision when dealing with some of the world’s worst tyrants. he understands how these people think, and he acts in what he believes to be the best interests of his country. the us believes that the deal is a bad one, one which is not built upon long—term stability. whether or not this is the case, we are now in the de facto situation where the iran deal no longer exists. iran is considering abandoning the terms set out in the deal, as it sees no economic benefit from adhering to them – a very worrying development. clearly, a solution needs to be found to the problem, either by saving the existing agreement or producing something new. the eu must forget about posturing power politics and allow the usa to get on with its own foreign policy. after all, you do not have your own eu army yet to enforce your ideas. the iranian president has even suggested that the country now faces a war situation, and air defence drills have been taking place. this is obviously extremely concerning. it not only impacts trade and business, but of course on the humanitarian level as well. in 1998, the us and the eu had similar issues with sanctions, this time involving cuba. an agreement was struck and the sanctions were lifted. again the eu must work alongside the us to solve this iran problem. the united states are not the enemy, and they must not be treated as such. it would be wise to remember the many great sacrifices the american people made during the 20th century in order to promote freedom and peace in europe. any thoughts of a potential eu trade war with the us are delusions of grandeur and nothing more. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – no, i’m not that naive. thank you.
mr president, in today’s societies, care work is disproportionately carried out by women and girls. they do most of this work for free, and it’s taken for granted. women’s care work, both formal and informal, is sadly still a source of shocking inequality. austerity policies and the resulting increase in poverty have seriously exacerbated the problem as vital services have been cut to the bone. yet, changing demographics mean that more of us are in need of care, so we’re seeing families and dependants forced to fall back on traditional gender roles. domestic workers, who are mostly migrant women, are open to terrible abuse by employers. meanwhile, in the uk, brexit threatens the future supply of care workers, leaving the elderly and disabled vulnerable. i’m happy to see that the report stresses that eu funding should support the transition from institutionalisation to a community and family—based model of care services, both for disabled people and other vulnerable groups such as children, and also that the report highlights the need for a work—life balance.
mr president, lyme disease is one of 10 diseases that afflict humans as a result of contact with ticks. sometimes there can be two simultaneous infections. there has been a 400% increase in lyme disease in the uk in the last four years. good livestock farming practices can make an immense beneficial difference here by reducing tick numbers, yet the green lobby, with its naive ideas of re-wilding, want to remove the livestock entirely. between them, sheep as teeth grazers and cattle as tongue grazers can prevent grasses from becoming damp and rank and thus deny the ticks a habitat. meanwhile, the farmers also control the bracken, another favourite tick habitat. any ticks that do appear will attach themselves to these animals and will be dealt with by the routine application of recommended insecticides. twenty years ago, this involved the use of potentially dangerous organophosphorus compounds. now, thanks to the research efforts of large companies, safer products which are simple to apply will readily destroy ticks. in the absence of these livestock, the ticks will multiply and settle on ground-nesting birds in fatally large numbers, yet the green lobby will tell you that it’s farmers who threaten bird numbers. unlike grass, ticks do not thrive in heather, which is an alternative feed for sheep. however, the green lobby frown on attempts to re-establish heather because of its association with politically incorrect grouse shooting. so we have a choice: a thriving tick-free upland economy based on livestock heather and grouse on the one hand, or the green lobby’s paradise of abandoned land, welfare payments, tick-infested wildlife and human disease.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, commissioner, with the eu-vietnam trade and investment agreements on the table, we need to be more serious about the ‘essential elements’ clauses. domestic repression has worsened in vietnam. human rights activists and bloggers not only face surveillance, intimidation and arbitrary arrest, but long stints in pre-trial detention, solitary confinements and excessive sentences. so commissioner, i’d like you to clarify a couple of points, please. in terms of, firstly, what concrete human rights improvements has vietnam made following the fta negotiations? secondly, how will the commission ensure that vietnam amends its repressive legal framework, in particular the penal code, the law on cyber security, bringing it into full compliance with international human rights standards? thirdly, besides pressing vietnam to release political prisoners, has the eu pushed for establishment of an independent police complaints commission to investigate grievances and provide oversight over these authorities?
mr president, vietnam is actually reducing its citizens' freedom in every area. there are over 100 human rights defenders languishing in jail, often in awful conditions, and the new cyber security law will give authorities more tools to silence dissent. it might surprise members that despite all this, the eu is accelerating the eu-vietnam free trade agreement process, pushing for a swift implementation. this parliament must make it clear that we will not ratify this unless there is solid progress on human rights. the eu risks losing its credibility, if on the one hand it withdraws trade preferences with cambodia over human rights abuses, and on the other hand, it signs a trade agreement with one of the most repressive states in southeast asia. therefore, i urge vietnam to release political prisoners, bring its legislation in line with international human rights standards, halt all executions and ratify the ilo conventions, and i call on the eu to strengthen their efforts to ensure concrete human rights improvements in vietnam. the eu trade policy was designed as a tool to promote human rights in third countries and, mr president, we must use it as such.
mr president, it’s becoming increasingly difficult to ignore the human rights situation in vietnam. well, that’s for everyone except for our trade negotiators. human rights defenders report a deteriorating situation on the ground, whether they be online bloggers, religious minorities or trade union leaders in shoe factories or in the fishing industries. in a country where basic freedoms such as the freedom of speech or religious rights are routinely denied to the population and where political opposition is systematically repressed and over 150 reported prisoners of conscience and human rights activists are currently detained in often terrible conditions, if the eu was serious about securing progress in terms of human and labour rights in vietnam it would insist on the release of these prisoners and the pre-ratification of human rights and ilo core conventions as a precondition to our ratification of the trade and investment agreements. at the very least, the eu should articulate a series of tangible human rights benchmarks that vietnam must meet before those agreements come before this house for approval. that’s at the very least – we need more, and we need better.
author. – mr president, when the obama administration broke the diplomatic stalemate with cuba in 2014 and reopened the us embassy in havana, there was much optimism in the west for a reset. but we now continue to watch with alarm as the new president, miguel diaz—canel, sets out his vision for the country under its new constitution. so far, sadly, there’s very little evidence from observers of any true progress in human rights in that country. political rights and civil liberties continue to be repressed, with the regime choosing to use short—term incarceration as a strategy for intimidating dissidents. although it’s thought that, overall, the number of political prisoners is decreasing, sadly, one of the first laws signed by the new president imposes punitive measures on artists and musicians who operate without prior authorisation. the ladies in white, who won the sakharov prize in 2005, continue to be harassed. thus, this is a mixed picture, so the eu must continue in its stick—and—carrot efforts to encourage the cuban government to transition towards a free and democratic state.
author. – mr president, bangladesh has, for many years, struggled with the problem of terrorist threats. given the similar problems we see in our own countries, we are only too aware that preventing threats from turning into attacks is a difficult and costly business, so we do so with the benefit of more resources in the european union, better intelligence and fewer potential threats. despite the progress bangladesh has made in recent years, it remains one of the poorest countries in the world, with a population of over 150 million people. as such, we must therefore remain cautious when criticising its efforts to tackle clear and present threats. nevertheless, this cannot be routinely offered as a blanket universal explanation, and in cases such as the jailing of the photographer shahidul alam we cannot deny that the provisions of the information and communication technology act (ict act) are, at times, being used inappropriately by the government. i welcome therefore today’s resolution and, as a close friend of bangladesh, call for the authorities there to avoid bringing its counterterrorism measures into disrepute. finally, as we approach the elections next month, i call on all parties to participate peacefully and hope that we will not see a repeat of the violence that we saw five years ago.
author. – mr president, i speak as the chair of parliament’s delegation for relations with the countries of south asia, which covers bangladesh. as we know, it’s a relatively young country still facing many difficulties and is looking forward to its full graduation from ‘least-developed country’ status. part of that graduation is due to the ready—made garment sector, and government and manufacturers know that change is needed. so we’re concerned that the government has decided not to take full advantage of all that the accord offers in terms of assisting that change and building on progress to safe and inclusive working environments. we also recognise, as my colleague has said, the government’s zero—tolerance policy towards terrorism. but that approach has to be built on human rights, and we’re concerned about continuing unexplained disappearances, extrajudicial killings and the direction of legislation at the moment. lastly, i too would echo the call for an open and inclusive, peaceful election – in which all parties participate – to give the people of bangladesh a full and meaningful choice.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i speak as chair of the south asia trade monitoring committee. we have constantly been appealing to the government of bangladesh to make progress on its commitments under the everything but arms scheme, to democracy, human rights and the rule of law. whilst we can see that there has been an improvement, more needs to be done. the accord is at a critical juncture, and commitments from the government of bangladesh towards the sustainability compact are highly insufficient, as demonstrated by the technical status report recently published. the roadmap is here, requirements are on the table, and now we need to see tangible results and steps in the right direction. it must be clear that we are at a crucial stage, and we are moving ever so slowly from issuing further notifications for action to actual action. it has been initiated in terms of investigative reviews for withdrawal of generalised scheme of preferences (gsp) mechanism for myanmar and cambodia. bangladesh could be next on the list.
mr president, the arrest, detention and alleged torture of the award—winning photographer shahidul alam shines a light on the poor human rights situation in bangladesh. alam is the founder of many important cultural, media and training initiatives in south asia. he’s also a visiting professor at sunderland university in the uk. his arrest, 100 days ago, for criticising the government’s response to the bangladesh road-safety protests, points to the worrying global trend of many governments to silence artists and journalists. so i call for the immediate and unconditional release of shahidul alam and for all charges against him to be dropped. i also call for the bangladeshi authorities to provide him with the urgent medical assistance he needs. these attacks on freedom of expression and assembly in bangladesh, as well as women’s, girls and lgbtiq+ rights give wider cause for concern. the high representative should take all necessary diplomatic steps to put pressure on the bangladeshi government to improve its human rights record, starting with the release of shahidul alam.
mr president, bangladesh is approaching general elections under the worst circumstances. the government has embarked on a campaign of intrusive surveillance upon its own citizens. it is monitoring social media and curtailing freedom of expression in the name of national security. the digital security act has gagged the media and all those who criticise the government and the harassment and intimidation of journalists and activists grows on a daily basis. peaceful political dissent should not be silenced or criminalised. we urge the government to revise the digital security act, halt the crackdown on freedom of expression and conduct investigations into the cases of enforced disappearances. we want bangladesh to progress towards a functioning democracy, not drift into an authoritarian police state.
rapporteur. – mr president, in the interests of speed, under rules 59(a) and 69(f), i request plenary to refer the matter back to committee for interinstitutional negotiations.
mr president, this report says that the railway sector has to provide excellent and modern services to customers at an affordable price, and i agree. it has been a torrid time on the railways for my constituents this year as train companies have profited from consumer misery. this summer, gtr, who run thameslink and great northern, cancelled 8 000 services in the first three weeks of the new timetable being introduced, yet these problems were foreseeable. each train needs a driver who has been trained on the model of the train and the route on which they are operating, but this does not happen quickly enough, and when the problems came to light, the rollout wasn’t paused. i blame the fragmented nature of the industry. the government has set up a review of our railways and i hope that it can learn from our european friends as brits spend five times more of our income than our european counterparts on rail travel. i call on the government to include in its review the putting back of our railways into public ownership after 25 years of failed privatisation. that will mean that we run our profits in the interests of passengers, not for private profit.
mr president, i am very pleased at the progress we have made on this report today. i spoke in the debate on this yesterday, but i want to raise a slightly different issue which is covered in this report, and that is ensuring our railways are accessible for disabled people, and particularly wheelchair users. because time after time on our railways in the uk but indeed in other parts of europe as well, i see a system that isn’t working. you see people who use wheelchairs having to wait for assistance with ramps and assistance at stations they booked and that assistance not turning up. that is a system which isn’t working. people have to sit on trains waiting for that assistance. we have to make sure our railways are accessible to all, and today’s vote in this house taking this report forward is an important step in doing that.
mr president, you won’t find a single member of this chamber who opposes any of the aims set out in this report: making it easier for people to take bicycles on trains, having greater information or rights to compensation if you have been mistreated, greater access for disabled people. not a single member in any of these groups will think that those are bad ideas, and do you know what? neither will the operators of the rail networks. it is a bad business model not to try and accommodate your customers. the problem is that we’ve moved from thinking that these are desiderata into thinking that they require legislation. it is a kind of legislative virtue-signalling. our primary purpose is not to remedy and identify a problem, but to let the world know what very nice people we are. the result is that there will be additional bureaucracy, additional paperwork, additional distraction of resources by the people who know more about it than we do in this chamber, which means in the end that they are not able to concentrate on delivering the best possible customer service. i wish we would have the modesty to accept that we are not always the experts.
thank you, mr president, friedrich hayek observed that there is all the difference in the world between treating people equally and attempting to make them equal. the first, he said, is the precondition for a free society; the second leads to servitude. it is the case that government assistance can free up people’s time. if the state decided to offer me someone to wash the dishes and do the housework for me without my having to do it, i would have more time to work. that’s true for all of us, it doesn’t become more or less true when you have children at home. there is an argument, and various regimes down the years – some savoury and some not – have made the argument that the state should be philoprogenitive; that we should be encouraging people to have babies through the tax system. fine, if that’s the argument you want to make, let’s make it honestly and openly, but let’s not pretend that it is an issue of gender equality.
mr president, public health england estimate that there were 3 000 cases of lyme disease last year. there is a quadrupling in the number of cases in recent years in the uk, and that is reflected in other member states as well. this is an extremely debilitating, serious disease. we need to see more research, more investment in treatments, a broadening and a deepening of the medical knowledge of this disease, and that is why i support that work taking place at european union level. it makes sense to do that, and i hope that going forward, whatever happens in westminster today or indeed, in the coming weeks and months, that the uk can remain an active, full partner of that work and indeed, wider medical research work at a european level. that is in the interests of patients in the uk and across the european union as well.
mr president, george orwell said if you want a picture of the future, imagine a boot stamping on a human face forever. the eu has tried to stamp the jackboot down on britain with this recent so-called brexit deal for democratically daring to leave. an attempted enslavement of the very nation that fought the nazis and liberated europe. the eu is supposed to be about government by consent, not force. i asked the parliament when we voted on an arrangement for lake lugano’s italian-swiss border why the same arrangement could not be made for northern ireland. no answer. well it is because the eu are using the tragedy of ulster as a bargaining chip. well that’s not government by consent with friends. in reality, i tried in vain to explain to mr barnier that the uk constitution explicitly forbids one parliament binding another. the deal must be fair to stick. well, he obviously hasn’t got that message through – obviously i got it wrong. when the brexit deal fails in the uk parliament and we have a world trade organisation deal, a totally liberated uk economy will take on a command economy – europe – and we will win. we will see that happen. a potentially despotic eu army controlled by unelected bureaucrats, more eu isolationism and regulation. crazy immigration, a false currency, mass unemployment as you isolate your greatest trading partner, london, the financial centre of the world with which you can never compete. the future of europe is one of a division like the berlin wall. on one side we will have those countries outside the eu, particularly in the anglosphere and its free enterprise, which will prosper and grow as it always has. on the other side will be a command economy – the eu. once again plunged into poverty, darkness and held back from real progress like the soviet union. it is the eu folly, along with the absence of a proper relationship which will cause europe to collapse. we should try to part amicably as friends. orwell’s picture of the future is probably accurate. the eu, however, should not think too soon, that theirs is the boot rather than the face.
madam president, agriculture will be expected to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions. farmers can reduce co2 emissions by reducing tractor use. this is possible without reducing productivity if gm seeds and glyphosate are regularly used to establish crops. the green lobby hate gm and glyphosate even more than they hate co2, so the alternative is to abandon some land and reduce food production. farmers can reduce methane emissions by feeding their ruminants expensive cereals and soya instead of grazing grass. this significantly raises the costs of producing meat, milk leather and wool. the green lobby insist that ruminants should be able to graze naturally so the only alternative is for the farmer to reduce ruminant numbers. farmers can reduce nitrous oxide emissions by growing fewer leguminous crops, but the green lobby want more protein crops grown in europe. these are leguminous. the green lobby cannot have it both ways. farmers can reduce water vapour emissions by maintaining large areas of bare soil, preventing transpiration. the green lobby do not like bare soil because of erosion risk. perversely, but fortunately, the green lobby do like the greenhouse gas water vapour.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i’d like to start by thanking the commission because this report is a stark warning that the single market is far from complete, lacks political support from member states and is, in fact, under threat. at the heart of this report is a goods-services divide. the single market in goods is well developed, although often undermined by national regulations, but the single market in services has barely got out of the starting gates. only a third of single market-related legislation proposed this term has been approved. if we didn’t already have the services directive, does anyone really believe that it would be passed today? the european parliament is often as guilty as member states of protectionism. the e-card system, which would have made it easier for professionals to work across borders, was blocked here. the single market is supposed to be at the heart of the eu. services is supposed to be one of the four freedoms – that’s what i keep hearing in the brexit negotiations – yet this parliament seems to show little interest in it. try being a hairdresser in germany or a ski instructor in france. it’s virtually impossible, and we are discriminating against other european citizens here. we need to match rhetoric with delivery and real commitment if the single market is to progress further. the risk today is that it slips backwards.
mr president, the single market is vital for the prosperity and economic well-being of citizens in the uk and the eu. it gives uk businesses access to the world’s largest market, of 500 million people, generating about gbp 10 trillion in economic activity. it is therefore a tragedy that the uk has agreed, in principle, to leave the eu and the single market. it is an act of self-harm and beneficial for neither side. it’s obvious that the uk’s best interests would be served by remaining as a member state and continuing to be a part of the single market, enjoying all four eu freedoms – movement of goods, capital, services and people. eu countries trade twice as much with each other as they do with third countries. the single market is responsible for income gains in the uk between 2 and 6% – that’s up to gbp 3300 a year per british household. leaving the eu and the single market means that we will gbp 100 billion worse off a year, with our economy reduced by 3.9% by 2030. this will cost the average person, in each year, gbp 1090. trade between the uk and eu will fall by 46% and foreign direct investment into our shores will fall by 21% and there would also be a fall in (off mike) revenue, up to gbp 23 billion less to spend on public services, pay … (the president cut off the speaker)
deputising for the rapporteur for the opinion of the deve committee. – mr president, i’m speaking tonight on behalf of lola sánchez, who was the rapporteur for opinion in the committee on development (deve). there are two key messages from our committee which tie in with what people have already said. the first is that, yes, we need a rules-based system, but this is particularly important for developing countries, because in a multilateral system they’ve got a better chance of getting a level playing field, of getting a seat at the table and having their voice heard, unlike in bilateral deals where bigger economies can call the shots. secondly, our key message is that the multilateral trade system must be fair to all countries including the least developed countries (ldcs) and be set in the context of the sustainable development goals (sdgs). free trade alone will not be enough to lift all boats, and so we need trade agreements which are broadly based, cover human rights, social and environmental aspects, and not just tariffs and trade liberalisation issues. we also need concrete steps to deliver on this agenda, like supporting the un process to negotiate a un binding treaty on business and human rights, and we need initiatives on the value chains that bernd lange spoke about. we have two areas where we could make quick progress: the first is cocoa and the second is textiles. these are areas where there is a growing mood to get something done, and i think we could work with businesses and member states to get things done. otherwise, we’re going to see national legislation and patchworks of national laws instead of having an eu law.
mr president, i think we’re nearly all agreed in this chamber that the world trade organisation (wto) is in crisis. our message should be that this is the occasion for fundamental change and not an excuse for postponing it. we need to use this opportunity to trigger negotiations on social and environmental standards in order to make sure that trade delivers on sustainable development. we need to start the discussion on ending the present consensus rule because as it stands, it threatens to paralyse the whole system. we need to rethink the definition of a developing country. should china, given its prominent role in global trade, still be considered a developing country? surely this is unfair on real developing countries which are in most need of special and differential treatment. the wto needs saving. we need a strong rules-based global trading system, but if we don’t act soon i’m afraid it will wither on the vine.
mr president, as a friend of kosovo, i am saddened to see that its participation in the european processes – in fact, its very existence, even – is still called into question in this house. on the contrary, colleagues, we should be putting all our efforts into kosovo’s accession to the eu. as we engage with the country, i believe one of our priorities should be the fight against anti-gypsyism. roma people remain a very marginalised group who face daily discrimination in all areas of life in kosovo and everywhere else. we must double our efforts to achieve full equality for roma people and this process should start with holding ourselves to account. in a country where the european parliament was instrumental in ensuring compensation will be paid to women victims of sexual violence during the conflict, i’m appalled to see that the un refuses to provide proper compensation for roma, ashkali and egyptian people affected by lead poisoning in the un-run camps. so the un and us should lead by example. we must take responsibility for anything that caused wrongdoings or lifelong damage to affected … (the president cut off the speaker).
madam president, i recently attended an important conference organised by the equal rights association in skopje where i met many brilliant, brave, lgbtiq+ activists from across the balkans. i really admire their courage and commitment as they defend the rights of lgbtiq+ people in sometimes very hostile environments. in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, gender based discrimination and the situation of sexual minorities is particularly difficult. the legal framework has significant shortcomings in terms of non-discrimination, legal gender recognition and body autonomy. but the conference i attended was organised in partnership with the socialist government of fyrom which demonstrated their political commitment to improving the situation of lgbtiq+ people. it’s an excellent example of how governments can work with and support civil society, and we have to make human rights defenders and civil society support one of our priorities in the balkans. i know that the macedonian parliament is currently discussing draft laws aimed at improving the situation of lgbtiq+ people in the country, and so i hope these discussions will bring tangible results that better fulfil human rights.
rapporteur. – madam president, this report as ever seeks to offer as wide and broad a commentary as possible on montenegro. on the whole, we see a picture of that country progressing well, with 31 of the 35 chapters now open in total. the government of montenegro remains positively engaged with the negotiation process and there continues to exist a strong consensus, both in the political arena and in terms of public opinion, for the euro-atlantic integrationist agenda. obviously, events during the 2016 parliamentary elections, however, show that there is no room for complacency, given the efforts of a big third country to exploit the fears and concerns of a small minority. court proceedings concerning the coup plot continue, and whilst we wait to see the final judgments, i have little doubt that events played out in the way that the prosecution is now arguing. the general political climate has improved since then and the handling of this case has proved the robustness of montenegro, strengthening democracy and legal systems. i am pleased to see that much of the opposition have now returned to the parliament, and i strongly urge the remaining boycotting parties to do so as well. as a first step, it would be good to see all political parties participating in the working group on reform of the law on the judicial council. furthermore, during the reporting period, we have seen presidential elections that passed smoothly and fully in line with the odihr/osce fundamental freedoms. clearly there is room for improvement in some of the state electoral commission’s working methods, and my report calls for reinforcing the transparency and professionalisation of the electoral administration with that end in mind. despite the overall level of progress, there remain concerns about the media landscape in montenegro. three successive commission reports have concluded that no progress has been made in the area of freedom of expression and media freedom – an important issue to satisfy the benchmark requirements of chapters 23 and 24 of the acquis. ongoing disputes about the role of rtcg and changes to the members of its council and leading executives have had a negative effect on public confidence in the network's editorial integrity. the attack against olivera lakić in may of 2018 has highlighted again the plight of journalists and acts of violence against journalists. we cannot forget that this is the second attack against her. given her involvement in investigating cases of corruption, such incidents highlight the continuing need to fight organised crime and corruption in all its forms and at all levels. on a more positive note, engagement and cooperation in the fields of cfsp and csdp remain very positive. montenegro has for many years been fully compliant in these areas, and its well deserved accession to nato in june of last year will only cement that cooperation. i particularly welcome montenegro’s full alignment with all the sanctions regimes, particularly those concerning russia. i should also say a few words on the elements related to the environment in this report, which has been given a much stronger focus than in previous years. as my two amendments demonstrate, this is being pushed by other political groups in this house, and to my mind has given the subject a slightly disproportionate coverage in relation to the overall balance of my report. as a self-declared ecological state, it could be argued that montenegro deserves to be held to higher standards than others. however, we must account for the budgetary pressures that this small country faces in this regard, and we cannot seek to be too prescriptive, particularly when calls go beyond the requirements of the acquis communautaire. to conclude, ahead of the wider debate: for some nine years as rapporteur for montenegro, i have referred to it as the ‘good news story’ of the western balkans. it remains today the leading eu accession candidate, but i hope that it will not be too long until we see it progress from the good news story of negotiations to the success story of accession as an eu member state.
rapporteur. – madam president, i would like to thank commissioner hahn and the austrian presidency—in—office for their comments and take this opportunity, in particular, to thank commissioner hahn for his ceaseless efforts in supporting the eu enlargement agenda over the previous five years – not always in the easiest of political climates. can i also take the opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs and the many other colleagues over the years who helped me compile my annual reports on montenegro. when i first became the rapporteur for montenegro in september 2009 it was a very different country. montenegro was then a newly independent state with an uncertain future. today it’s a nato member. it’s aligned fully with the eu cfsp. it’s prospering economically and it’s the front runner amongst those countries wishing to join the european union. so my report highlights montenegro’s strong overall progress and is positive about its general direction of travel and excellent regional neighbourly relations with its western balkan partners. with such achievements, however, come greater responsibilities. in this regard, parliament has clearly laid out its concerns about media freedom in the country and the need to intensify the fight against corruption and organised crime and diversify its economy. this is my last report as montenegro rapporteur, but i wish montenegro well in the future and have no doubt whatsoever about its successful eventual path to eu membership.
rapporteur. – madam president can i firstly thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their input in this report. academic freedom is not some dry obscure subject. i want to highlight two reasons why academic freedom matters so much. the contributions that academics make and the fact that attacking academics is an early step on a familiar path towards tyranny. the truth is, threats to academic freedom impact everyone in our society, when researchers, professors and students can’t explore certain issues, society doesn’t get the benefit of their skills and talents looking into important questions. when research on gun violence, tobacco or other health-related issues can’t happen, public health is endangered. when research into global warming, pollution and air quality doesn’t happen, the whole of society and the environment suffers. attacks on academic freedom hamper social, political, economic and cultural development. today, i hosted an event on academic freedom in the parliament. i learned that 294 attacks have been reported on higher education communities in 47 countries between september 2017 and august this year. thousands of academics and students are threatened, attacked, imprisoned, censored, expelled or even killed each year because of what they teach, write or say. recently, i was in turkey as part of a subcommittee on human rights mission. turkey is a clear example of a country where a crack down on critical thinking occurs with an unprecedented witch-hunt targeting teachers, academics and other professionals. but turkey is not the only country threatening academic freedom, we also hear reports of the detentions of uighur scholars and students in china, targeted attacks on scholars in iran, pressures on student expression in nicaragua, mounting tensions in the united states and state-driven threats to institutional autonomy in russia. i should also address the elephant in the room, the terrible attacks on academic freedom in our own eu member state, hungary. sadly, violations of academic freedom claims are rarely brought under human rights law. this is in part due to a lack of familiarity with issues of academic freedom amongst human rights advocates; and secondly, the fact that claims often referred to other rights being violated, such as freedom of expression or opinion. as a result, standards in this area are under developed and violations of academic freedom go underreported. therefore, recognising these incidents as a part of a single global phenomenon is a crucial first step in devising solutions. there is an urgent need to raise awareness of the importance of academic freedom and to create opportunities to improve the capacity for its advocacy and defence. there is also an urgent need to explain why academics’ work is fundamental to democratic societies and the protection of our rights, especially in the current rise of autocratic leaders. there are organisations and universities that already do excellent work monitoring and reporting attacks and assisting those who are under threat. i have been hugely inspired by the work of scholars at risk which launched its eu chapter today in this parliament. however, they struggle with financial and administrative limitations, which preclude otherwise qualified at-risk academics or students from being able to obtain access to programme opportunities. more needs to be done and the eu could lead in this area, supporting persecuted and at-risk academics as well as defending and promoting academic freedom worldwide. madam president my report deals with the eu’s exchange external actions as its title says but we cannot approach and tackle external issues without being honest with what is happening in our own backyard. we cannot talk about the inclusion of academic freedom in the copenhagen criteria for eu candidate countries without referring to the case of hungary, a member state that has been through the accession process. this case provides evidence that there are shortcomings in the accession process and an urgent need to address it. we cannot be hypocrites. the eu global strategy clearly states that living up consistently to our values internally will determine our external credibility and influence. that is why i am saddened and disappointed by some of my epp colleagues’ actions. it seems that, for some, the priority about this report was to ensure that it does not make references to eu member states actions, it seems that the priority was to protect mr orbán. finally, to those people we say that we will not be silenced, we will be banging on about this for years to come. we will keep highlighting the importance of academic freedom and institutional autonomy and we will never stop saying that academics must be free to research and publish the truth, in hungary, throughout the eu and across the world. (applause)
madam president, i would like to thank my colleague, wajid khan, for his excellent work. this report highlights the need to defend academic freedom when it is under threat. that must also include inside the eu. hungary signed up to european values in the copenhagen criteria, and we have to call out the assault on those values that is happening there today. forcing the central european university out of the country is a clear breach of all that hungary signed up to. further, european citizens in hungary are being prevented from following gender studies because the hungarian government refuses to accredit them. we cannot preach values abroad which are ignored in the eu. i hope this parliament will support the amendments that highlight and condemn undermining european values by any country, inside or outside the eu.
rapporteur. – madam president, it is great to have a commissioner hahn, who actually sounds like ‘mep khan’. thank you for your kind words, commissioner. i’d just like to say, once again, thank you to all colleagues who have worked and made contributions toward this report. hopefully tomorrow we can vote the amendments through, as well as the final report. i’m very disappointed that my esteemed colleague, the ppe shadow rapporteur, isn’t here to listen to your comments, commissioner, and to other interventions from esteemed colleagues who have worked on this report. i’ll keep it brief: thank you very much to everybody and i look forward to tomorrow’s vote.
madam president, this month the un reported that the conservative party’s misogynistic, punitive, mean—spirited and often callous austerity policies have inflicted great misery on people across the uk. a fifth of the uk population live in poverty. in parts of my north west constituency over 50% of children live in poverty. the tories have brushed aside these expert findings, but it’s negligent for any government to dismiss consistent evidence that they have compounded suffering through their domestic legislative agenda. meanwhile, in 2017, the eu adopted a european pillar of social rights to encourage poverty reduction and the creation of more equal societies. brexit hasn’t even happened yet, but the effects are already being felt. austerity continues, the economy suffers and households are already gbp 900 a year worse off since the referendum result. it’s the poorest families who have borne the brunt of the sharpest cuts and brexit will only add to their misery.
madam president, i want to speak about a group of citizens tonight who have been badly let down by their member state government. they settled in european union countries to live, to work, to pursue their dreams, to retire, as european union citizens. as of 1 january 2021, they are due to become third country citizens. i don’t believe that we are in the business of removing rights from individual citizens of this union and i do not believe that the status of these uk citizens in the eu27 should change. i don’t believe, and neither do they, that they should lose their freedom of movement rights and be effectively discriminated against, because eu citizens in the uk will retain those rights. this is a wrong, it’s a historic wrong; it has not been righted in 12 months. we have time to right this wrong on behalf of those people.
madam president, black friday is one of the biggest online shopping days of the year, but workers say that they are treated like robots in the rush to get deliveries out to customers. that is why i joined demonstrators outside the peterborough amazon warehouse. workers have told the gmb that they don’t have enough time for toilet breaks, 87% are in pain due to their workload and they are fracturing limbs and being taken away in ambulances. it wasn’t just in my constituency – protests happened right across the uk and in italy, france, germany and spain. it’s international solidarity. of course, when you order a book or headphones or a new laptop online you can’t wait for them to arrive but for that to happen safely there needs to be enough well trained, well paid staff. so my message to amazon is, please get around the table with the union representing your workers and remember, staff can’t be treated as robots.
madam president, under rule 162(3) and (6), parliament has decided that this debate we are about to start on brexit will only have a round of speakers from the leaders of each of the political groups. that has a consequence, madam president. there will be three british voices in that debate, each and every one of them from those who support brexit. parliament will not hear a single british voice from those who oppose brexit, which according to the latest opinion polls actually represents the majority view of the british population. (applause)
on behalf of the ecr group. – madam president, (inaudible) ... lot of experts on domestic british policy these days. look, brexit was always about much more than the economy. in a way, because the european union strayed so far into many other areas, into our national lives, it is why the british people voted for brexit. they were increasingly unhappy with this tendency. you say you didn’t want brexit, but you did nothing to avoid it. but of course the economic aspects are central. a bad deal for britain or no deal will have repercussions in many european countries as well as britain. much time seems to be spent here on predicting events in london and the consequences of brexit for britain. perhaps we should look at the impact of a bad deal or a sour relationship on the european union. certainly, the british government entered into negotiations in a spirit of goodwill, aiming for a positive future partnership. there’s been astonishment in britain over the legalistic inflexibility that has been shown quite often. but we all know that the eu will bend or break any of its own rules when it suits it, and instead of defending the long-term interests of eu countries, it seems to have chosen to pursue a narrow ideological course defending a particular view of the eu project, which is increasingly repudiated by citizens across europe; it may appeal to the leaders of a couple of the larger countries in the european union. instead of listening to citizens, your answer to everything is just more europe. and by the way, i think a lot of people have been very cross in britain about the discourteous way in which our prime minister seems often to have been treated. because of your insistence on a bizarre sequencing arrangement, you’ve wasted two years when you could already have made progress on a free trade agreement. all other issues would then have fallen into place – it wasn’t necessary to do it in the way you did. this makes it all the more important to move quickly into negotiating our future relationship and reaching rapid but correct conclusions, but we need some reassurance and flexibility – indeed, guarantees – from the eu over concerns that have been expressed. we need an atmosphere of trust and goodwill from your side if we are to have that future positive, stable relationship that is surely the least that all our citizens demand. (applause)
on behalf of the efdd group. – madam president, i’m in no doubt that this withdrawal agreement is a good deal. it’s a good deal because it involves large transfers of money. it’s a good deal because it maintains free movement of people. it’s a good deal because it keeps britain in the customs union and stuck with the eu’s rulebook. and crucially, the key point, as mr barnier said this morning: there is the backstop, which means of course the united kingdom can be held effectively as a hostage for many years to come. it’s a good deal for the european union; for the uk, i think it’s probably the worst deal in history. something, mr brok, that president trump has noticed – and, by the way, he is a great respecter of the great nation states of europe, and certainly no enemy of any single one of them. no, mr barnier, i have to say i wish you were on our side really, because it’s game, set and match to you. you probably can’t even believe your luck that you came up against a british prime minister who met every single demand of yours whilst at the same time trying to deceive the british public, and you took it to the big summit on sunday, and in 38 minutes it was all agreed, done and dusted, and off to lunch. well, i have to say, we will be leaving on 29 march next year, but any illusion at home that we’re going to be an independent country, i’m afraid, has been shattered. and before the ink was even dry last sunday, president macron of france stood up and decided to start to threaten us. now, i understand the french do catch 90% of the haddock in the west of the english channel and we get 10; i understand their interests. but i fear that we’re very much now open and at your mercy over the course of the next few years, and the truth of it is, in the political declaration, you haven’t got to give us anything. you don’t need to give us a thing, and that is why this is going to fail in parliament, and probably fail by a very big margin. now, mr barnier, you say this is the only possible deal. but this deal isn’t going to be accepted. so perhaps we all need to grow up and recognise that there is a strong chance now of the uk leaving on 29 march with a wto no deal. we need a negotiated deal, to deal with sensible border issues. i wonder, mr barnier, are you prepared for that? because you seemed this morning to assume that the british parliament is going to ratify this. it isn’t. (applause from certain quarters)
madam president, last week angela merkel said, and i quote, ‘what’s been important to us it that the uk cannot decide unilaterally when the customs union ends but rather has to define that timeframe jointly with the eu.’ the european institutions took control in 1973 and, ironically, continue that control through this 2018 brexit betrayal deal. this deal means that we remain a nation of supplicants. we’ve lost the freedom teasingly dangled before us through the 2016 referendum results, when a british establishment and political class were rudely reminded that the british people want to take back their sovereign control. ataturk’s wise words now seem more appropriate than ever when he said ‘sovereignty is not given, it is taken’. this is a terrible deal: bad because the eu continues to hold my country over a barrel and the british politicians who sign up to it need to understand that history will be their judge, and believe you me it will judge them all very badly. madam president, a number of friendly pro-european colleagues within this parliament have openly admitted to me that they cannot believe their luck in how bad a deal this is for the uk, and it surely cannot be allowed to proceed on such a one-sided basis. (applause from some quarters)
madam president, i would like to say to my colleagues that, in the context of today’s historic address by two nobel peace laureates – one to another, because the eu itself won the peace prize in 2012 – i want to inform you that yesterday. 28 november, was the seventh anniversary of the brussels declaration – a pledge to peace, signed here in this house in the european parliament under the patronage of gianni pittella, then first vice—president. the pledge encourages projects and actions aimed at promoting peace in its most universal meaning, based on the significance of each individual person. it’s inspired by the universal ideas of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity enshrined in the preamble of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and confirmed by the lisbon treaty in 2009. so let’s remember, folks, that the european union is, and always will be, a peace project. (applause)
madam president, you might say that once the scandal was unveiled, the system worked. investigative journalists did their job, legislation was changed. i’m struggling to understand why the rest of us are now piling in to opine on what is essentially a german domestic matter. germany is not a failed state; on the contrary, it’s a country whose rule of law is beyond question and whose authorities operate according to impartial rules. a little bit of me wonders whether this isn’t part of this chamber’s constant obsession with trying to have a common fiscal policy, which would really be about reducing competition rather than about cracking down on avoidance. but i have to say – perhaps i’m the only person in the house who feels this – isn’t it slightly odd to hear all of these outraged squeals about tax avoidance from members of the european parliament, who are exempt from paying national income tax?
madam president, this is an area where we have to tread very sensitively. we’re talking about the most intimate and important matters: relations between parents and children. i’ve come across a number of heart-breaking cases both on the petitions committee and indeed as constituency cases in the uk, and yet i have to come down on the same side as my epp friend sean kelly. this is fundamentally – precisely because of its sensitive nature – the sort of issue that should be determined by each country through its national democratic mechanisms and procedures. for the second time in a row i find myself rising in defence of german sovereignty. that’s not to say that there isn’t a problem. but the people to sort that problem out are those most directly involved, namely the authorities of the member state in question.
madam president, the multilateral rules—based system is under threat as never before. it is our collective responsibility to uphold it in these trying times, especially under the attack of the current us president. in a world of raw power politics, neither the eu nor any of its member states, individually, stands a chance of promoting a progressive future. the keystone of the global order is the wto. it is to date the most advanced of all the multilateral institutions. its dispute settlement mechanism is one of the very few instruments at international level with the power to resolve conflicts peacefully. in the past, we know as a continent that economic conflicts often lead to military conflicts. but the wto is far from perfect. it’s high time we broadened its scope to make it a real instrument for development, workers and the environment. so to save the wto we must make it more efficient and accountable, and that’s why i supported the report today.
madam president, commercial property values plunging by almost half, house prices down 30%, sterling down by 25%, living standards hit, gdp down 8% on what was forecast – just some of this week’s forecasts on the hits the uk economy would take in the event of a no—deal brexit. we heard earlier in this house some advocating a no—deal brexit and trade purely and only on wto rules. those who advocate that position never seem to be able to answer the most obvious question: that if wto rules are so perfect, why do countries spend so much time and energy to secure ftas over and above wto arrangements? those advocating a hard deal / no—deal brexit today must answer the question, why do they want to see people across the uk made poorer? talk of a no—deal brexit must be dismissed today for what it is, which is dangerous, preposterous nonsense.
madam president, i welcome this report into how we make the wto more relevant. wto rules are, for the first time in my memory, being talked about in everyday conversation in britain. the hard—line brexiteers tell us a no—deal brexit is simply about adopting wto rules. but what would that mean in practice for british businesses that export to europe? an end to zero tariffs, a big change from today. it would result in a 12% tariff to export the fish that we capture around suffolk shores and in luton van parts will be taxed at 10% every time they cross the border between the uk and the eu and a 21% tariff to sell the tomatoes grown in essex into europe. plus, unlike today, there will be quotas limiting the amount that we could sell into the eu and that’s before we even start to think about renegotiating and starting the 124 new trade agreements currently handled through the eu with the rest of the world. president, it seems to me that our proud exporting nation would be decimated.
madam president, to consider the miracle – the power – of free trade, consider the story of hong kong. after the second world war its gdp was a third of that of the uk. by 1997 it had drawn level; now it’s 30% higher. based on what? what natural resources does that island have? it has to import its drinking water, its food, its electricity – it is utterly reliant on things it brings in from elsewhere. its magic was simply to remove all obstacles to trade and not to make it contingent on what any other country did. there was a unilateral removal of tariff and non-tariff barriers that led to this extraordinary flowering of prosperity. similar thing in singapore: went from half of our level of wealth in the 1950s to twice what it is today. and britain outside the customs union as a wto member will have the opportunity to do something similar to return to what first raised us above the run of nations in the 19th century, which is to remove barriers between businesses and their customers. that’s all you need to do; the magic follows.
madam president, as a member of the joint parliamentary committee of this house and that of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, i am pleased to support this report. there’s clearly much work yet to be done before macedonia can accede to this union, but it should be clear to anyone whose eyes are open that significant progress has been made. settling disputes like the name dispute between macedonia and greece requires politicians of courage, who are prepared to tell the truth to the people that they seek to lead. the simple truth here is that the prespa agreement might not be perfect but nobody – not the nationalists in macedonia nor the nationalists in this place – have suggested any alternative to the prespa agreement other than stagnation and stalemate. so let’s praise the courage of those members of the sobranie who supported the constitutional changes and look forward to progress on media freedom, and political and civil administration.
madam president, i welcome this debate and would make three points. firstly, postgraduate research in the field is vital and risk can never be entirely eliminated, but it is vital that the safety of european students studying abroad remains paramount. second, we must be vigilant when european universities host foreign branch campuses in countries where governments restrict freedom of speech. thirdly, it is vital that we get our own house in order. in hungary, gender studies courses are being cancelled after a government ban, and the attacks on the ceu continue. last week i met professor betegh, a visiting professor from the ceu, who told me that the university is a hub for state universities and attracts high calibre speakers who hungarian students would not otherwise come into contact with, and that its move to vienna would be a huge blow. academic freedom is not an abstract notion. the right to question all and search for truth is fundamental.
madam president, i want to congratulate my colleague, wajid khan, for bringing forward this important report. i think my generation grew up perhaps taking for granted, and benefiting immensely, from freedoms secured by previous generations – democracy, the rule of law, media freedom and indeed academic freedom as well. in this era today, where all those things are being challenged, in this era of populism, of fake news and of other challenges as well, those of us who believe in those freedoms must stand up and defend them. academic freedom is crucial and set against those things are populism and fake news, fake facts – almost a poisoning in places of our public discourse. we must protect that space of free, unfettered scholarship and academic freedom. so i welcome this report. i was pleased to vote for it and i hope we can enact the proposals that it has brought forward.
madam president, i am delighted to support the work of my colleague, wajid khan, in this report which is regrettably necessary. those of us who have taught or researched understand that academic freedom is something that must be cherished. the notion that the state should in any way dictate what is studied in academic institutions is entirely unacceptable, and i believe incompatible with european values. we should be prepared to defend academic freedom fiercely. if a member state or third country are acting to contain this essential freedom of inquiry then they should not be able to benefit from union funding or collaborative programmes under horizon europe. but we should also be prepared to defend academic freedom from the pressures of the market. it is rumoured that three institutions in my region are under threat for financial reasons. we need to understand that many of the greatest gains for humanity have been made from research with no obvious economic output at the time it was undertaken. we need to defend that pure research ability.
mr president, well you’re not going to like this are you, you lot sitting over there? it is such a shame that this life budget is going to be wasted on a totally useless project trying to make farmers improve the world’s weather. what are the drivers of climate change? the main one, of course, is the activity of the cosmic rays, this atomised cosmic dust and, where our atmosphere condenses against it, cloud cover. what can the farmers do about these exploding stars? nothing at all. what can the farmers do about the five different solar cycles whose cycle is well understood and that have caused the changes in our climate for over 2 000 years? farmers can’t change the solar cycles. farmers can’t change the gravitational pulls of other planets. farmers certainly can’t change the ocean currents. we haven’t even got on to greenhouse gases yet, which are pretty trivial – the most important one of those for climate change is water vapour, and yet you never hear about that, and a very good thing too, because that is our cloud cover. they all talk about co2. yes, the levels have gone up. why have they gone up? because of the warming we had in the last part of the last century: the seas got warmer and released some co2. co2 is a consequence of global warming, it isn’t a cause of it. then we’ve got methane that farmers produce in tiny, tiny quantities – it is a tiny, tiny gas. in any case, it breaks down to co2 and water vapour. there’s no point in fiddling around trying to do anything with that. then, of course, we’ve got nitrous oxide, the leguminous crops. we are wasting our time in trying to persuade farmers they can change the world’s weather. what could we be doing with this budget? we’ve got a serious problem worldwide called anti-microbial resistance. farmers do have a part to play in trying to overcome this. we could use this life budget to find ways of improving biosecurity on farms and then allocating grants to make the biosecurity a lot better. we could offer grants to farmers to cull their flocks when the only choice is to give them antibiotics. this would be a very good way of preventing antibiotic use. we could use this budget to research the breeding of harder, more resistant birds, instead of them requiring antibiotics. this is what we should be doing, not fooling around trying to persuade farmers they can be king cnut.
madam president, i’m very glad that parliament is debating improving regulations around carcinogenic substances. it’s of vital importance that workplaces are safe and that people have protection from deadly chemicals. in my constituency, the greater manchester hazards centre has researched and campaigned for the reduction and removal of carcinogenic substances. they highlight the tragedy at the heart of this issue. between 8% and 16% of cancer in european citizens is related to workplace exposure, and these cases of cancer are preventable. the gm hazards centre also explains that women and low—paid workers are at higher risk of exposure to carcinogenic substances. as women are more likely to do work in cleaning, fragrances and cosmetics, they are exposed to more deadly chemicals. this highlights the gender imbalance in the workplace. we must also not forget the unregulated work that is done in europe. hidden and exploited workers are exposed daily to hazards in the workplace, and the eu must reach out proactively to end illegal employment practices and ensure all workers are safe from hazards.
mr president, the unwillingness of eu citizens to have glyphosate residue in their food, when the world health organisation (who) has deemed it probably carcinogenic, is entirely understandable, and the more than one million signatures on the european citizens’ initiative indicate the intensity of concern. i have received more than 500 emails from the people of south-west england calling for greater transparency. in a process that was confusing and opaque, member states chose to reauthorise glyphosate in the face of scientific evidence and widespread public concern. as called for in this report, we need much greater transparency about the process of risk assessment for the food chain, in order to restore public trust. meaningful reform would be undermined if meps vote tomorrow to allow industrial secrecy to trump transparency. if the industry really has nothing to hide, then why preserve so-called industry secrets? people lose faith in their institutions when they can see that information is being concealed, or that they are being deceived. at a time when a cocktail of substances is entering our ecosystems and our bodies, we need to know how the eu decides whether this causes us harm. let’s shine a light on the dirty work of the agri-businesses that prop up an intensive and unsustainable food system, whilst at the same time finding alternative agro-ecological solutions to replace the dangerous chemicals that are so widespread in our farming system.
mr president, when it comes to making legislation in this area, we should be guided by the principle of ‘follow the science’. independent science—led, evidence-based policymaking is, in my opinion, essential. equally, citizens of the european union are right to expect reasonable levels of transparency from our institutions. for the european food safety authority (efsa), as for other agencies, increasing transparency will encourage and increase public trust in scientific decision—making and the safety of the food we eat. however, we must, of course, ensure that commercially sensitive material is adequately protected. if essential parts of confidential business information are not safeguarded, it would hamper innovation and have a particular impact on small and medium-sized enterprises. i also have sympathy for concerns about an increased national level of involvement in the efsa risk assessment process, on the grounds that it could be subject to increased political involvement, particularly with regard to changes in how efsa recruits its management board.
madam president, provided it is done with the knowledge and democratic consent of its citizens, how the european union goes about building a european defence union is the eu 27’s business and not mine. so things like interoperability in this report make sense to those who are building towards an eventual eu army. but in the uk, the remain campaign lied to the people. they promised that the things that we’re discussing here today were just yet another euromyth and, after the referendum, i was tempted to say, ‘well, let’s let bygones be bygones; those things didn’t work and they didn’t fool the british people’. but we should be aware in the uk that uk participation in the eu common security and defence policy missions and the possibility of britons being under eu operational command is in articles 102 and 103 of the political declaration on brexit. brexiteers must not simply sleepwalk into assuming that theresa may’s deal will keep the uk completely isolated from this, because it won’t.
madam president, digital skills are fast becoming central to all areas of life. this is true not only in the world of work, but also for administrative and social purposes. quite simply, citizens with little or no access to digital education are at risk of being left behind. digital literacy can no longer be treated as a luxury. it must be accessible to all as early as possible. we must be bold in our ambitions and coherent in our approach by ensuring that sufficient funding is allocated. digital education should be accessible in all areas – especially in rural areas – and provided equally to girls and women, as well as boys and men, in formal and informal settings. just last week we celebrated the week of lifelong learning, and i want to highlight the opportunities for early school leavers to benefit from digital education. those people who are at high risk of unemployment and social exclusion must be especially targeted by policies aiming at mainstreaming digital skills, and i believe that here lies one of the keys towards providing equal opportunities for all.
madam president, this agenda is not only about jobs and the community, even though they’re important aspects of building a stronger and more open—minded europe. we must also harness the power of culture and cultural diversity for social cohesion and wellbeing. we need to foster wider participation from diverse communities. we need to increase mobility for artists, and we must build on the excellent work done in the european year of cultural heritage. we must embrace ‘steam’ instead of stem. the a is for arts, which should be at the heart of all young people’s education. finally, a word about brexit, which will be catastrophic for the uk’s creative and cultural industries: loss of freedom of movement and limited opportunities for collaboration will impoverish our nation economically and socially. but given the chaos in the british parliament, i’m still hoping that we can remain a member of the eu.
madam president, just last week we held a screening of the ballymurphy precedent in the european parliament in brussels. i want to commend the courage, determination and tenacity of the ballymurphy families whose loved ones were shot dead over three days by members of the british army in august 1971. the massacre in ballymurphy, carried out by the british parachute regiment, came just five months prior to the murder by the same regiment of 14 civil rights marchers in my home town of derry on bloody sunday. this is an incredibly difficult time for the ballymurphy families who are currently engaged on a daily basis with the long-awaited inquest into the murder of their loved ones. the coroner, justice keenan, condemned the british ministry of defence, stating that the nature of the information coming forward was not acceptable. however, the british defence secretary, gavin williamson, has set up a new legal expert unit to prevent members of the british forces from facing the court. there should be no immunity or impunity for british soldiers guilty of crimes of collusion or murder in ireland.
madam president, the commission president rightly said that parliament had done its work on the central focus of this presidency, and in the conclusions on security and on migration that is absolutely the case. the somewhat unrealistic european border and coastguard proposal – we delivered. interoperability, ecris: everything we were asked to do, we delivered. but when it came to migration – where of course, as the commission president said, we delivered everything we were asked to do – dublin, the asylum procedures regulation, those files which are all interconnected – i say to the council and to the commission, those interconnected tough files – the majority of the files of any committee in this house – they are being split apart, and now the commission asks us to adopt five of the seven files. i understand the expediency, but it represents a failure when in this house we want multilateralism, and we didn’t like the fact that, during the presidency, we had a failure of multilateralism and of the global compact when the presidency left the global compact. we need courage. we need multilateralism in common solutions. we in the parliament will deliver our part of the bargain. it’s a pity that we have had some failure in the council and in these council conclusions. let’s try and make it positive before the end of this mandate.
madam president, the brexit chaos continues. ms may’s inability to secure a majority in the house of commons for the deal that she signed is not just about the irish backstop, which the right wing of her party obsesses about; for the bulk of the british parliament and for public opinion in britain it is because the deal as a whole is a bad deal, a job-destroying deal and a rights threatening deal that will be bad for britain and for europe. and this, not because of the eu’s negotiating stance, but because of the inability of this british government to make the right choices. it set down red lines which resulted in this being the only available deal within those red lines. it made the bad choices as to what it wanted. it has led us into this mess. it’s time to change course. there is growing opposition in britain to the very idea of brexit. public opinion has shifted. every argument that had been made to justify it has fallen by the wayside, and i am convinced that when this deal – even with extra clarifications – comes back to the british parliament, it will still be rejected and britain will be confronted with a very hard, but very important, choice: whether to go ahead or not with this disastrous course of action.
madam president, the decision to delay the meaningful vote at westminster reflects widespread opposition to the prime minister’s deal right across the political spectrum in the united kingdom. members of parliament recognise that the backstop is a threat to northern ireland and the integrity of our union. they recognise that it is an indefinite threat to the independence and sovereignty of the united kingdom parliament, and they recognise that without substantive renegotiation it cannot succeed in the house of commons. mr tusk has said he wants to facilitate uk ratification without reopening the deal. mr juncker said this morning he is ready to offer clarifications. quite frankly, to believe that this will succeed in the house of commons is indeed magical thinking. so we face many questions. is the eu serious about delivering a deal for all of its citizens? is it genuine about avoiding a no-deal outcome? is it sincere about protecting businesses and families in the irish republic relying on the great britain market? these questions matter. (the president cut off the speaker)
madam president, failing to plan means planning to fail. this is self-evident from theresa may’s humiliation yesterday. from a british perspective, all we see from the eu is an inflexible intransigence. we see this reckless attitude too frequently from the eu, and not just with the uk. we see the eu’s confrontation with italy (budget), switzerland (capital markets), hungary (george soros), and poland (judicial reform). and now the eu’s poster boy, macron – supported, it would seem, by euro gendarmerie force armoured personnel carriers with eu flags emblazoned on them being deployed against french citizens, les gilets jaunes, rising up against your bonkers climate policy. euro gendarmerie, euro army of oppression. given the eurozone’s attitude to others, what confidence can the uk have in any eu assurances about the backstop? the backstop is an entirely manufactured problem. no—one is going to build a border in northern ireland. the world trade organization (wto) says it is not necessary, the taoiseach says ireland won’t build one, and my old friend jean-claude juncker has said the same. if their word can be trusted, then we do not need a backstop. how dare the eu use the tragedy of northern ireland as leverage? the issue can be solved by modern technology and goodwill. wto rules allow at least 10 years to find solutions while negotiating free trade. article 50 requires any trade terms in the withdrawal agreement to be temporary, so why can we not have an end date to the backstop? i’ll tell you why: because the eu dishes out punishment beatings with the sole aim of humiliating democracy. jean-claude himself said that there can be no democracy against eu treaties. pause to consider whether your repeated actions against democracy across the continent make the eu, like napoleon bonaparte, a danger to european peace and stability. ask yourself whether you wish to have the uk, the british people, as your steadfast friends or your implacable enemies.
that was very kind of you, madam, but i think we choose what we say, do we not?
we have political differences in different nations, madam.
we were at war for many years.
mr president, i don’t know if you noticed, as i did at the weekend, that the tanks being used against the gilets jaunes in paris were bearing the european union flag. they were from the european gendarmerie force. is that proper? i’d like to know what your thoughts might be. i find it disturbing that the european gendarmerie be used to repress people throughout europe. (mixed reactions)
mr president, as this report rightly says, technology is transforming the world of work, meaning our schools, colleges and universities must adapt to ensure that the next generation have skills that are fit for purpose. that’s why i was so pleased to unveil two state—of—the—art 3d printers at university centre peterborough for engineering, computing and art students to use in their studies. i saw the new machines whirr into action, and found out how students will be able to learn, hands on, how to design cad files and to 3d print them, preparing them for a career in industry. the number of job adverts asking for 3d printing skills has increased by over 1000% in recent years and the market is expected to be worth as much as gbp 16 billion globally by 2021. i’m delighted that peterborough students are at the forefront of this digital revolution.
mr president, this is a tribal age in politics. we habitually infer the blackest of motives from people that we dislike, but surely the survival of the human species on a habitable planet is a kind of fairly low bar that ought to unite everybody in this chamber and beyond. so it seems to me terribly sad that that argument is always advanced in a way that implies that the world cannot be made habitable for future generations except through higher taxes, more international bureaucracy, a diminution of national sovereignty and the planetary redistribution of wealth. conservatives, as the etymology suggests, are natural conservationists. if we are looking to have the most effective ways of preserving the environment, they have to include the extension of property rights because – as aristotle used to say – that which nobody owns, nobody will care for. environmentalism is altogether too important to be left to the left.
mr president, of all the many hundreds of votes that we take in this house, i consider those which lead to a strengthening of people’s health and safety protection in the workplace to be the most important. everyone has the right to be protected and to have their health protected and upheld in their place of work, so today’s vote is very important. but there is unfinished business on this. we must do more to protect healthcare workers who are placed at risk in their treatment of others by being exposed to incredibly powerful toxic drugs used to treat people with cancer. they deserve our full protection. and when people are unfortunate enough to suffer a terminal illness, they too deserve protection in the workplace and have their right to work upheld. that’s why the work we’ve done this year on the dying to work campaign is so important and will continue into next year as well.
mr president, today we voted on eurofound and its work on improving living and working conditions. there is not a single mention of this important agency in the 585—page withdrawal agreement or the accompanying woolly political declaration, because theresa may has negotiated a blindfold brexit. yesterday, the prime minister pulled the westminster vote on her deal, yet bizarrely it seems that she is just planning to renegotiate the backstop, as she still thinks that there is broad support for the rest of her deal. she is living in cloud cuckoo land. that doesn’t solve the problems of going from helping to make the rules to just abiding by them. a gbp 39 billion divorce bill, but huge decisions about the future left unanswered. out of the customs union, out of galileo, loss of rights to travel freely for work and leisure, farmers facing a shortage of seasonal workers. i could go on. whichever way people voted two years ago, nobody voted for this shambles, mess and turmoil.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, as vice—chair of the special committee on terrorism, i welcome this report and congratulate the chair of the committee and the co-rapporteurs for their diligence, for avoiding many pitfalls, and for coming forward with – for the most part – realistic proposals. we haven’t had a multi-casualty terrorist attack in europe since, i think, 23 march 2018 in carcassonne. the public mind is naturally on other matters. but i am under no illusions: those that wish us harm and seek to disrupt our societies are at this moment actively plotting and preparing attacks. i congratulate the police and security services in all our countries for their professionalism and vigilance. the united kingdom has among the most professional and capable intelligence and security services in the world and makes an enormous contribution to the security of europe as a whole. as helga stevens has mentioned, this report endorses the need for a close future security partnership between the eu and the uk. while there is a certain ideological boneheadedness in brussels in other areas concerning brexit, it’s nevertheless widely recognised by the professionals and, i believe, at the political level that there must be continuity in the security relationship between the eu and the uk. this includes uk contribution to, and access to, information and data networks. we also need close cooperation in many other areas, for example in dealing with those returning to our countries from the isis terror organisation, and none of us has yet found an acceptable solution to the problem of convicted extremists, both during their term of imprisonment and – most importantly – once they have served their sentences. to conclude, this report should be seen as a realistic contribution to a discussion that needs to continue and intensify.
madam president, the conclusion of the eu-japan (economic) partnership agreement which i strongly support is yet another example of the eu’s successful global free trade and political cooperation agenda. it’s also a major rebuff to brexiteers in my country, who insist that one of the key reasons for leaving the eu is in order to conclude ftas with important uk trade and strategic partnership countries that the eu is unable to deliver for the united kingdom. this just isn’t true. japan is an important trading partner for my country, and it has been a huge source of foreign direct investment (fdi), particularly into the car industry in britain. this deal will remove tariffs on over 90% of exports, including all those on fisheries. it will also see japan recognise eu geographical indicators and contains provisions on services, including financial services, which would have been of particular benefit to the uk, which brexit now sadly removes forever. it will remain to be seen whether the uk can independently replicate as generous a bilateral deal in the future without the combined clout of the 27 other eu member states and the promise of access to the world’s largest single market.
madam president, commissioner jourová was here earlier because, as part of the conclusion of the eu-japan trade agreement, the commission is expected to adopt the adequacy decision with japan by early 2019. with the simultaneous development of an agreement on personal data transfer from japan to the eu, this will result in the first ever two-way adequacy finding, leading to the creation of the world’s largest area of free and safe data flows. this is to be welcomed, and it was the result of our mission in october from the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs. it is welcome because new developments in big data robotics and artificial intelligence make it increasingly important that strong data protection systems are in place. as commissioner malmström will know, we have called for further clarification in order to ensure that all personal data are protected when transferred to japan under the definitions of the gdpr. the gdpr is respected in japan – we saw it for ourselves – and we believe a strong relationship will be built. we believe that this adequacy decision can send out a strong signal to countries around the world, including japan of course, that convergence with the eu’s high data protection standards offers very tangible results.
madam president, in a turbulent world i warmly welcome these two agreements, which bring stability, both in economic and political terms, to the relations between the european union and japan. as the rapporteur has rightly said, this is not only the largest trade deal done in the world or done by the european union, but it is also the most progressive. i want to pay tribute to pedro silva pereira for the way that he has pursued the tsd chapter and got assurances from the japanese in relation to its implementation, and also the way that he has argued with the japanese about the need to ensure that the two ilo core conventions they have not yet signed are ratified as soon as possible and received positive responses from the japanese in that respect. it is to his great credit that he has pursued these with vigour and i think it makes it easier for us to vote for this report when it comes before us tomorrow. finally, i’d like to agree with charles tannock that the united kingdom could never negotiate such a progressive free trade deal on its own. it’s only being part of the european union that allows us to achieve what we have achieved. (the speaker agreed to take a blue—card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – of course nobody in their right mind wants a tariff war. the great advantage of this trade agreement, though, is the way it reduces non-tariff barriers, the way it makes it easier for european companies to access the japanese market. our problems in competing with japan have never been about tariffs. it has never been about differing labour standards; it has been about non-tariff barriers, and this agreement goes to the core of that issue.
mr president, the ruling of the european court of human rights was a step in the right direction and certainly confirmed what our political family, the socialists and democrats, have been saying since demirtas was first imprisoned. it is important that the court called for his release and we will continue to advocate for the rights of hdp, our sister party. i am, however, very worried about the uncertainty regarding the implementation of this ruling. the turkish authorities have been very clear about their intention to disregard this ruling and to keep demirtas in prison on the basis of other charges. i urge turkey to implement this ruling. the situation of rule of law in the country is extremely worrying as the independence of the judiciary is questionable. as a friend of turkey and a friend of the kurdish people, i will continue to stand by demirtas and all the other politicians, academics and journalists and human rights defenders that are currently attacked and imprisoned by the turkish state.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, i would like to say to madam high representative that the mcallister report seeks to examine the very difficult foreign and security choices that lie ahead for europe at a time of real authoritarian threats to the multilateral rules-based post-second world war order. by 2050, europe will constitute a much smaller part of the world’s population, economy and military prowess, and brexit tragically removes a big player from the eu security equation, weakening both parties. therefore, in future the eu needs to act together in projecting its external policies, but of course, there are real national sovereignty concerns about moving towards qmv in cfsp and csdp. nevertheless, i personally strongly support the eu priorities, including maintaining the jcpoa after us withdrawal, containing russian expansionism, understanding chinese global ambitions, fighting international terrorism, finding a peaceful solution in syria and yemen, and making pesco a political reality. i also welcome some of the innovative thinking in foreign and security policy from president macron and chancellor merkel for the future.
mr president, these reports underline the eu’s truly frightening military aspirations. the description of the european union as a sovereign entity flies in the face of reality and public opinion, and talk of the projection of power is, frankly, ludicrous. how can 27 states, some of whom are neutral, ever come to a joint decision to send their young to war? this place must never have the moral ability or authority to order troops into battle. we already have an organisation in nato that has kept the peace through the most testing times. nato has the expertise and is an alliance of mutual interest. if you must spend money in this area, then invest in that successful and well-run organisation. and let’s leave the un alone. your naked ambition for a security council seat must not happen. rather than reforming the eu, you should instead reform your aspirations by remembering the primacy of a nation state. it is a nation state that protects its citizens, and we must ignore this call to arms.
mr president, legitimate concerns about military capabilities are not resolved by the europeanisation of defence, which is an aspect of the process of european political integration. it was in my second speech in parliament, in november 1999, that i issued that warning. at the time, people said it was just scare mongering, or else i was told it was never going to happen. now mr mcallister is calling for removal of the national veto in foreign policy, and the main thrust of mr paşcu’s report, which at least has the sense to refer to nato and the need for more investment in defence, is eu strategic autonomy, the so-called eu defence industry and the development of permanent structured cooperation (pesco). in other words, advancing an eu army. an eu army, what’s wrong with that? it wastes resources. it sends the wrong signals. it’s divisive and it pretends the world is flat: that it’s possible to increase the scope and efficiency of defence spending without increasing defence spending itself. it will end in tears.
on behalf of the ecr group. – mr president, any talk on human rights is essentially a talk on freedoms, and any talk on freedoms should be about all freedoms for every individual on earth – irrespective of gender, ethnic, cultural or religious background – for there cannot be political freedoms unless there are economic freedoms. sadly, the worldwide respect of freedom has dramatically declined over the last decade according to the universal human rights index (uhri) for 2018. north america, europe and oceania stand out as the beacons of all freedoms. it is not a coincidence, however, that per capita income in these parts of the world tends to be three to four times higher than in the countries with the lowest records of economic and political freedoms. our aim, therefore, should be to encourage reforms along these lines in various countries, especially in north and sub—saharan africa, the middle east, south asia and latin america.
mr president, yesterday was human rights day, celebrating the dignity and value of every human being. in this room, we have heard the moving testimonies of the sakharov prize laureates and their extraordinary work, but we cannot stop and pat ourselves on the back yet. we have so much more work to do. today, there are reports in yemen of people starving to death in the worst humanitarian crisis in the world. more than 85 000 children have already died. this is a sad catalogue of suffering, and europe has to take more leadership than ever before. europe now stands as the only power that cares about human rights. the trump administration has moved the us to post-human rights diplomacy, and now europe, standing alone, must bear the torch for global human rights advocacy. i hope we can all agree that human rights are not a matter for one committee of this parliament – they must become the hallmark of the external action of the european union. finally, i would like to congratulate my good friend mr auštrevičius and the shadow rapporteurs on their work on this report.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, there should be three things that all of us on all sides of this house can agree on. one, we all stand by ukraine and we support its sovereignty and its territorial integrity. two, ukraine’s citizens must enjoy freedom and be respected. and three, the freedom of the press must be respected. if there’s anyone who doesn’t support these values, they had no business supporting the eu-ukraine association agreement in the first place. but the words of that agreement must match reality: rhetoric is not government. i have every sympathy with ukraine when it comes to crimea, when it comes to russian aggression and interference. but as surely as you can’t fight fire with fire, it is wrong to fight repression with repression. we’ve seen activists and journalists alike being violently attacked by radicals, with little if any reaction or protection from the ukrainian government. yet no one in this chamber would question that freedom of the press is one of our most cherished values. the ukrainian government is in the process of banning the two biggest tv channels in the country, channel 112 and newsone, and proper democratic procedures are being ignored four months before an election. how can this be: that the president of ukraine can potentially closed down independent media just before an election? this report rightly criticises the erosion of the freedom of the press in ukraine, and it is time for the ukrainian government to take action, rather than pay mere lip service to it. support for freedom and democracy should be universal, whether back home in the uk, here in the eu or in ukraine, or anywhere else in the world. the government of ukraine must ensure that these principles are sacrosanct, and that means allowing tv stations to broadcast whether you like the message or not.
mr president, as a human rights and international law campaigner i have supported ukraine since the beginning of my term of office. in fact, i was a friend of ukraine for a very long time before that. i believe it is essential that we, here in the european parliament, continue to stand by the country and its people, and i am really proud that tomorrow this house will award the sakharov prize to oleg sentsov, who faced a trial that failed to meet the internationally recognised standards, and continues to be imprisoned to this day. oleg has become a symbol representing artistic freedom all over the world, and i am truly saddened that he cannot be with us tomorrow. i also want to take this opportunity to mention the situation of freedom of expression in ukraine, particularly when it comes to press freedom. the occupied territories in the east are extremely dangerous for independent journalists. however, there are some positive developments in the field of human rights. crucial reforms have been adopted and the country has a vibrant civil society. for instance, women’s groups are incredibly dynamic. they are the future, and support for civil society should always be at the heart of our foreign affairs work.
mr president, i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for his report and i would also like to thank the commissioner for her speech. it really needs to be emphasized that ukraine today is facing unprecedented, massive aggression from russia. it's a territory where a war is taking place. if russia succeeds in destabilizing ukraine, it will have a huge impact on the european union. our future is being decided in ukraine, that is simply true, and even though ukraine has a whole series of problems, which some colleagues have mentioned here, in the framework of internal reforms, it is our moral duty, but also in our geopolitical interest, to continue to support an independent ukraine, a strong ukraine. if the commissioner has said that we are providing unprecedented, the largest financial assistance to this country, then i am convinced that this is correct and that in the future this aid should be the same, on the contrary it should increase. ukraine and its stability is the key to a stable europe.
mr president, st francis of assisi’s famous prayer says ‘where there is hatred, let me sow love; where there is injury, pardon; where is discord, union.’ now when it comes to military aggression, obviously a nation must be able to defend itself, nobody could reasonably say otherwise, and we must stand with ukraine over recent events in the sea of azov. but equally, you cannot counter suppression of free speech with your own suppression of free speech. the best response to a loss of freedom is increased freedom. the best response to a loss of democracy is increased democracy. against a backdrop of violence against journalists and the proposed closure of tv channels, i say this to the president and government of ukraine: please defend freedom. please ensure justice for all, whether they agree or disagree with your point of view, and please ensure freedom of the press. most of all, i challenge you to show the uk, to show europe, to show the world, a better way: make freedom a way of life, not just a word.
mr president, this debate has hit on one key area where the ukrainian government has been found wanting: freedom of the press. no government can stand by and do nothing while its journalists are being attacked and murdered. this is thoroughly unacceptable. time magazine today awarded journalists collectively ‘person of the year’. while time magazine sees the importance of journalists, the president of ukraine and the rada parliament are plotting to close tv channels 112 and channel one. can this chamber truthfully say that the ukraine which behaves this way is ready for eu entry?
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, first of all, i would like to echo the sentiments of colleagues and send my very best wishes to those who have been injured today and i hope that there is no loss of life. there are only two certainties in life – death and taxes, and it doesn’t seem entirely certain who that quote should be attributed to but what is certain is that it is out of date. so here’s my quote: the three certainties in life are death, taxes and that the european union budget and power will continue increasing. that’s the principle of ever closer union in the treaties and the principle that i think hastened the uk’s decision to leave. every year we show genuine savings that can be made to the eu budget but every year they aren’t. this year’s increase will be different because the uk will only be an eu member state for 89 of those 365 days. so this budget is reliant on one thing – that the uk will leave the european union with a deal and that the uk will be paying the so-called divorce bill, because the attorney general’s advice is that the uk legal obligations are something in the region of eur 8 billion compared with the divorce bill agreement of eur 39 billion. that would, if there were no deal, leave the eu short part way through the year. so the question becomes, will we have a deal? well that is very much questionable at the moment because theresa may is seeking assurances from eu leaders on a deal that she knows does not have the confidence of the british parliament. indeed, there are questions as to whether there will be a motion of no confidence, either from parliament or from her own backbenchers by the end of the week. well, i would certainly, for one, love to have a good, decent, honest, free trade deal between the uk and the european union with reasonable cooperation between us both, but that sadly, at the moment, doesn’t seem to be on the table. ms may’s deal is what is on the table, and there are many people who would prefer no deal to may’s deal. the european union budget, as well as the uk, needs to be prepared.
mr president, i would start by adding my words of sympathy to the relatives of anyone caught in incidents in strasbourg this evening. we certainly need to tackle waste in the european union budget, and i am delighted that we will tackle the waste of young people unable to find work with an extra eur 116 million and also another eur 240 million to erasmus to help young people build a better future. this is a budget that looks to address the reality of migration rather than seeking to exploit migration by stoking fear in the cynical pursuit of votes, and while i am always pleased to see investment in the horizon research programme that opens up new opportunities and extends human frontiers, it is a little disappointing, as mr fernandes said, that we were unable to persuade the council to roll over de-committed funds from 2018 to 2019. this is a sensible measure that would create greater stability and would be widely welcomed by the research community, and we will keep trying to persuade the council of that in future.
mr president, we should recognise that we have a leading defence sector and that we have a leading regulatory framework for this sector. however, this can be improved, which is why i support the fund and hope that the amendments will be supported across this house tomorrow. i am also grateful to the shadow rapporteur for his cooperation on a number of areas on this report. we have the shared aim of improving the defence sector. this fund should make sure that we invest in our defence, but that we do so in an effective way – not by closing down opportunities. it should not be proof that the transatlantic security relationship is weakening, but rather the riposte to that: that europe invests in its defence, but it does so with its nato allies. together we can, and we must, make europe’s defence stronger and safer.
mr president, as chair of quaestors, although i wasn’t personally caught up in it last night, i would like to thank on behalf of all of us in this house and our assistants, the staff of this house who stayed behind last night and helped us enormously. (applause)i would especially like to thank the catering staff, who managed to remain calm and cheerful whilst finding food from somewhere that they didn’t know they had, whilst all the time wondering about their family and friends somewhere else in this city. also the car drivers who returned to the parliament in the wee small hours to make sure that we all returned to our hotels safe and sound and to the many others that we didn’t see but are working behind the scenes. to all of them we all say a very heartfelt, thank you very much for last night. (sustained applause)
chair of the libe committee. – mr president, i’ll be very brief. speaking under rule 171, given yesterday’s solemn events, it’s important that we stand as united as possible as a parliament. colleagues will of course have noticed that there are clear political differences and nuances in this report. if i may i would like to add the point regarding the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) oversees the work of the special committee on terrorism – and indeed the work of the rapporteur – that now would be a good time to recognise the amount of work that is done to achieve consensus on this sensitive file from all political groups. even if we vote differently on specific amendments, it’s my hope that the whole house will be able to give support to this report in the final vote.
in writing. – it is right that digital business, especially that conducted by gafa, be taxed on the same lines as businesses in other economic sectors, in the place where they conduct business. given the nature of digital activity, where value is being added, costs assumed and profits made constitute matters lacking the clarity found in other economic activities. this makes it possible for gafa and others to fudge their income statements and avoid having so as to pay taxes on their profits. in these circumstances it is legitimate to introduce a tax on their sales, where these occur, to curtail and eliminate such tax avoidance. while this report supports the introduction of such a tax, it does so as part of a strategy by which, on a european scale, we move towards a harmonisation of taxation, not least by putting in place the tools that would make such harmonisation easily possible. on the grounds that taxation should remain part of each member state’s sovereignty, i therefore voted against the resolution as a matter of non—negotiable principle. also, i doubt whether taxation of sales of digital business need be contemplated on a european – as contrasted to national – scale.
mr president, what a wonderfully nightmarish vision this whole debate is putting forward. you soak up billions of pounds— or euros—worth of taxpayers’ money into the centre, you then take that money and, politically motivated, redirect it into projects in countries you think it should be redistributed to. you then find out – because there’s such a huge amount, and it always would be the case with such a huge state, with such huge money – that sometimes it goes in directions you don’t like. sometimes, it breaks the rules. on this occasion, apparently, allegedly, it would appear the czech prime minister has been using it in a somewhat dubious way. all of this is then judged from this esteemed senate building and looked on. you decide what to do to the czechs. you have a super—powered commissioner, a powerful accountant, a real superman of accountants, who’s going to rip open a nation state’s books to check through them. having been in small business myself, this is a little bit like having the auditors turn up. it’s very frightening, i can assure you. well you are doing that on a grand scale. it boggles the mind as to what might happen, for example, if we had a ‘remain’ uk. what would happen? would we one day have theresa may’s successor dragged in front of the super—accountant who says ‘you’ve not spent the money the way we think you should’ – although most of the money actually goes the other way. it’s nightmarish to think a nation state could be in this situation, and to think that a supranational governance like you could throw money like this – millions upon millions – into something that you then afterwards realise might well be going to friends and family and being completely misused. then the whole point: conflict of interest. well, i understand it in business terms but i can give you some more conflicts of interest that eu money is often used in, and it doesn’t get investigated. what about the conflict of interest of the eu funding of the bbc, who then publicised propaganda on behalf of the eu during the brexit campaign and discussion and continued to do it? surely that’s a conflict of interest. what about the conflict of interest of british political figures who’ve made money, employed legally, working within the commission and other things? people like the kinnocks, lord mandelson, who then engage in british debate about whether or not we stay in the eu? this is about what you think is a conflict of interest and what isn’t. if you can pay someone and you allow them to go forward to spread your propaganda, you think that’s okay. but if you’re paying someone randomly millions like this and then they do things with it in a way that most likely does seem unethical, you then want to clamp down with super—accountant. it is hypocrisy. the truth is that when you have such a massive amount of money slushing around, even the greatest of organisations – which maybe this might one day be – cannot possibly run it effectively, efficiently without corruption. you can’t even get your own accounts signed off. so how can you then come down like this when you’re throwing money around at a government that may be corrupt? (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 162(8))
blue-card answer. – if you believe in democracy and you pretend that this is a democratic building, and i assume you’re complaining about people like me campaigning for independence for our country, then i would say we’re actually elected in european elections, just the same as you and everyone else here, and we put forward a legitimate point of view that we wanted to leave. guess what? we got a referendum which we won, and then people like you and others here and back in the uk are trying to undermine that. hence the problem that we have the no—confidence vote tonight in the prime minister. if you don’t like democracy and you don’t like paying someone to do the same job as you, don’t have elections, and be honest and do what you really are: be an authoritarian state.
mr president, i recognise and commend the work of ms emily o’reilly, the ombudsman, as she has attempted to increase the transparency of the council and the commission. however, emily, as you would know, much, much more needs to be done. in the north of ireland, the committee on the administration of justice (caj) launched a complaint with you that the commission failed to fully and faithfully translate their commitments that they made in december in the joint brexit report. before complaining, the caj wrote a letter to president juncker that has been acknowledged but not yet answered. these are administrative errors and fall within your remit. whilst it took a year to get sight of the mapping exercise of north-south cooperation, it was only released by the brits after your call. in february, we were told that annex i of the backstop would be extensively outlined in the list of directives that we in the north would be able to avail of to uphold our rights. however, it ultimately only contained six anti-discrimination directives. indeed, we were guaranteed that the people of the north would be able to access and exercise our rights where we reside. however, the wording ‘where we reside’ was not inserted into the brexit withdrawal agreement. undoubtedly, the backstop is the least worst option for ireland, yet the british negotiation tactics have contaminated politics and practices, creating an insidious environment resulting in maladministration. emily, you should not have to wait for complaints to materialise. you should be able to use your remit to ensure that the commission’s brexit commitments are fully and faithfully implemented. mr president, on this night i would ask you to allow me just a few more seconds, because as mayhem is unfolding in the tory party, it is without doubt evident that the people in the north of ireland should have their say what union they want to be a part of, and the test has been met in the good friday agreement for a unity poll to be triggered. i know that it’s not within your remit, but i thought it was necessary to say that this evening.
rapporteur budg. – mr president, the space programme is a good investment for the european union. it enables member states to realise technology benefits that are too substantial for any individual member state, and as well as that obvious economy of scale, the added value created by the space programme is considerable: the direct benefits, for example, of a competitive space sector worth around eur 60 billion a year, providing 230 000 high-skill, high quality jobs. value—added benefits already realised in fishing policy, environmental programmes, precision farming, transport and traffic modelling are also contributors of added value. in this way, we get a greater return from eu budgets, and we also get data for better informed budget decision—making. a couple of cautionary words: the commission is creating a european union agency for the space programme from another agency. this carries some risks, we believe, of duplication with the activities of the european space agency. a tight definition of that agency’s brief and diligent scrutiny is the way to mitigate that risk. the progress of this departure, along with the adequacy of funding for galileo, copernicus and the new streams, should be reviewed at the mid-term of the mff. and finally, it is worth observing as a cautionary note that some of the discussion has focused on the notion of a uniquely european union space industry. the trouble is that there’s no such thing as a uniquely european satellite – space is global, and to approach it any other way may well prove an expensive mistake.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, i’d like to start off, particularly at this time of year, by saying that we should all wish well to all people, especially those in difficulty: refugees, asylum seekers, those who may not be able to sleep comfortably in their beds at night. particularly at a festive time of year like christmas, it’s beholden on us to remember that. however, this is an interesting debate because, in the uk, it’s very much framed as the eu being all about economics and trade, especially at the moment that’s the main thing. but we see, at the moment, a very real situation still going on in relation to migration and the issues around borders, and there is talk about eu security and border controls being put into nations, and money being spent on, or thrown at, this. i cannot help but believe in my heart that, actually, when you look at immigration into independent countries, individual sovereign states, they would be better being given control of their own borders to look after these things themselves, and if they need help, there is such a thing as a foreign aid budget. the uk has an enormous foreign aid budget – we’re often classed as a foreign aid superpower – and yet, again, we are contributing twice, as eu funding is going into this as well. surely it would be better to give individual sovereign states the right to control their borders and, if they need assistance, if there is a crisis, to address it by means of other states offering foreign aid.
blue-card question. – not forgetting that our lord was a refugee, at this time of year one doesn’t want to be cruel to people who are suffering or whatever. but the only problem is, if we give more funds and help people even more, it will encourage more refugees or financial people, people looking for a better life. i don’t blame them: if i were in their situation i’d want to come west too, but the trouble is we can’t afford it, our people have got enough trouble getting jobs themselves, it is causing a lot of trouble. would you not agree with me that to continue to dish out money is simply going to encourage more people to try and come?
mr president, shame on those members on the far right who are exploiting the tragedy that happened here in strasbourg on tuesday night, using it to express their racist and islamophobic views! migration is an ongoing human phenomenon. when life is unsustainable because of war, famine, poverty, climate change and so on, people will move. we are all part of the problem and we need to fix it together in a humane way. my friend danica jurisic is a bosnian refugee from the balkans war. she knows what it means to lose everything, to suffer dispossession. and what is she doing? well, she’s helping the refugees and migrants back in her home country and she’s also helping them here in her adopted home in france. she is the person on the ground in paris working, with care4calais, with all the refugees and migrants who were displaced from ‘the jungle’. and i want to urge all the members here to support the ‘winter coats for calais’ campaign. do something!
author. – mr president, i’m pleased that we are today raising the case of nasrin sotoudeh, a sakharov laureate and prominent human rights lawyer in iran. the harassment of lawyers and human rights activists in this manner is wholly unacceptable and is illustrative of the fundamental lack of basic civil rights that exists within iran under the theocratic regime. i naturally support the calls for her immediate release, but we should remember that her case is by no means an isolated one. i’m one of those that strongly supports the joint comprehensive plan of action (jcpoa) but i’ve always maintained, as is key to that nuclear deal, that this should not mean we shy away from highlighting the dire human rights situations that persist in iran and have been there for many years. this resolution also raises the important issue of dual nationals who have been arrested and detained in iran, including many eu citizens. the case of nazanin zaghari—ratcliffe continues to dominate uk—iran relations and i call, once again, for her release, i sincerely hope in time to return to her family in england for christmas.
on behalf of the efdd group. – mr president, nothing is more intimate to a person then their religious belief. to express a belief or lack of in god or a higher power is a fundamental right that too few people around the world truly enjoy. for some women the hijab is a vital expression of their faith, for others it is an oppressive tool. what is consistent is that it should be a woman’s right to choose what they wear and how they express themselves. that the women of iran cannot do so, not only out of social pressure but through the power of the state and law, is a gross violation of human decency. iran must listen to her citizens, roll back these oppressive laws and allow their citizens to choose.
mr president, we awarded the sakharov prize to oleg sentsov yesterday, but four laureates are still imprisoned, including nasrin sotoudeh. she is the iranian women’s rights defender who has been shamefully attacked by the government for her outstanding work. there is an urgent need for the different eu institutions to create meaningful cooperation to support human rights defenders that have been awarded the sakharov prize. they’re part of our family. thanks to the protectdefenders.eu mechanism, the eu has become one of the strongest supporters of human rights defenders’ safety in the world, and as members of the european parliament, it is our duty to closely follow the situation of the laureates of the sakharov prize. i therefore call on the iranian authorities to immediately and unconditionally to release nasrin and drop all charges against her. i also join the call of my fellow british mep, charles tannock, to ask the iranian authorities to release nazanin zakaria ratcliffe, the mother and charity worker wrongfully imprisoned in september 2016.
author. – mr president, i have been a strong friend of egypt, i have sought to support the stabilising of efforts made by president al—sisi’s government over the past few years and i am all too aware of the very difficult security situation that exists in that fragile country. there can be no doubt that egypt is facing a persistent and clear danger from terrorism. however, we cannot allow this to be an excuse for ever-more stringent restrictions on its people’s basic civil and human rights. i am very concerned about the increasing threats to freedom of the media and about the arrests and disappearance of journalists. the reported executions of almost 1 500 people during the past four years are also a deeply disturbing trend, particularly given that the vast majority of those concerned were tried in mass trials. as we have learned in europe, there is a constant tug between implementing meaningful counterterrorism measures and securing people’s basic freedoms. i’m sad to say that the balance in egypt is now deeply questionable. a change of approach is sorely needed and it is one that the european union must press for strongly.
mr president, for the second time this year we are raising the alarming situation of human rights in egypt. the egyptian authorities must stop the crackdown on human rights defenders, who are disappearing at an alarming rate. egypt must immediately release amal fathy, ismail al-iskandarani, hisham gaafar and all those who have been detained for peacefully expressing their opinion. i urge the member states to be united and to speak with one voice during the upcoming eu—egypt association council, to continue applying pressure on president al-sisi. we must reconsider our level of engagement and cooperation with egypt if it continues to disregard international law. fundamental democratic rights, such as freedom of expression, political pluralism and the rule of law, must be guaranteed. let me be clear. if egypt wants to be more than a neighbour, and to become an important partner country to the eu, there is only one way: to make concrete progress on its human rights record.
mr president, the human rights situation in egypt is deteriorating. as noted in the draft resolution, the egyptian government is heavily reliant on death penalties and harsh enforcement measures. people undergo torture, and human rights are not protected. i’m particularly concerned by the abuses of children that have been reported. according to human rights watch, of the thousands of cases heard in military courts since 2014, over 150 involved children facing trial. according to a un report in 2015, children with disabilities often go without access to education. this is not a country where young people can flourish. europe is egypt’s first trading partner. the eu—egypt partnership priorities 2017—2020 were adopted last year and the eu is in a good position to influence what the egyptian state does, and to take the action that’s required.
mr president, for me, this is a desperately sad situation, because for many decades tanzania seemed slowly to be going in the right direction and many of us indeed welcomed president magufuli’s election in 2015, when he promised to tackle corruption, improve governance and reform the economy. sadly, his crackdown on corruption has been replaced by a crackdown on anyone critical of his rule. journalists are detained and harassed, opposition politicians are threatened, attacked, and, as we’ve heard in this chamber today, in one case even murdered. international organisations are not immune from this either. our own ambassador has had to be forcefully recalled from the country. although the government has distanced itself from some of the more extreme comments that have been made about the lgbti community, it is clear they are not doing anything like enough to protect that community and more must be done. i’m afraid, after years of advocating closer relationship between the eu and tanzania, i have to agree with those who say we now have to rethink our relationship with that country.
mr president, i rise to add my voice to the concerns of this house about the deteriorating human rights situation in tanzania. not only has the government of president magufuli been cracking down on the media – as we’ve heard – but, more alarmingly, it is also violating the rights of lgbti people and preventing young girls who are pregnant from attending school. on top of this, we’ve had the regional commissioner makonda threatening to arrest and chase all gay men out of dar es salaam. this is outrageous. all of these violate our strictest values. therefore, i welcome that our relationship with tanzania is under review by the commission and that we have recalled our ambassador. my questions to the commissioner are: are we considering withholding aid, like denmark has done, and, following the briefings from our ambassador there, what are the next steps? what are we going to do to address these concerns? secondly, on a much broader issue, how can we ensure that the eu’s policy on human rights moves away from a reactive towards a more pre—emptive approach. finally, given the trend of increasing online media censorship and a lack of international standards on this, what steps have we taken to actively shape international norms?
mr president, i am appalled by the situation in tanzania, where civil society organisations and human rights defenders are being attacked on a daily basis. last month, the authorities asked the public to report the name of any person suspected of being gay, pledging that a special team would ‘get their hands on them’. i am also very worried about the safety of hundreds of people who are facing serious threats because of their sexual orientation or gender identity or expression, real or perceived. just yesterday, another lgbt community centre was attacked, and government incitement clearly plays a role in provoking violence, hatred and xenophobia. respecting and promoting all human rights are international obligations. tanzania has a duty to respect these obligations and must not incite or perpetrate violence against any minorities. i support the eu’s decision to recall its ambassador in dar es salaam to brussels for consultations on this urgent situation and to review its relationship with tanzania. at last week’s acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in benin, i was able to ask both the acp and eu councils what they are doing to stop these attacks. i have to tell you, the acp response was sorely lacking.
mr president, first of all, may i thank you for the brisk and efficient way in which, as usual, you’ve conducted the vote, and may i take this opportunity to wish you and all of the staff and interpreters a very happy christmas. one of the outcomes of the recent protests in france is that the french budget is now plainly going to spiral beyond the limits allowed in european treaties. we’re always told that this is a law—based organisation that has to follow its rules. i just want to leave members as they head back to their constituencies with one question: when a eurosceptic government in italy looked as though it might breach the deficit rules, it was universally condemned and an alternative budget was cooked up in brussels. will that same standard be applied when emmanuel macron does the same thing?
mr president, i am, of course, in favour of an eu-japan free trade agreement. i’m in favour of free trade, always and everywhere, and the deeper and more comprehensive, the better for all sides. i just invite you to ponder the difference between these two archipelagos, these two island monarchies at either end of the eurasian landmass and the different way in which they’re being treated as trade partners by the european union. i don’t think anyone suggested, as part of the eu-japan talks, that part of the japanese archipelago – let’s say honshu island or something – should have to remain under eu regulations. nor has anyone suggested that a trade deal would be tied to freedom of movement and nor, unless i wasn’t listening very carefully, did anyone say that japan would have to remain in a customs union with the eu following the conclusion of such a trade deal. and it’s this sense – that the european union is treating the uk, not in the sense of looking for a mutually advantageous outcome, but with a degree of vindictiveness as a special case –that i’m afraid makes a treaty now almost impossible to foresee.
mr president, in general and in solidarity with japan and the people of japan, i welcome this agreement. it is also a step towards a better and fairer eu trade policy that prioritises our regulatory standards on the environment and other key issues of importance to citizens. however, i do still have concerns, which is why in the end i abstained on the final vote on the resolution and on the agreement. firstly, there are no proper arrangements in the agreement for monitoring of its impact on rail safety or in relation to the practical application and implementation of the opening—up of rail procurement processes in the eu and japan. in addition, i would have preferred that this agreement were to definitively rule out, in advance, any investor protection through investor—state dispute settlement or an international investment court as being anti—democratic and inappropriate. similarly, the agreement should have included more specific provisions providing protection for the right of nation—states to regulate, and guarding against the commercialisation of water and other public services.
mr president, i voted for this report and, as urged to by the uk government, in support of the amendments to articles 25 and 14, to provide more clarity on the opportunity for uk companies to continue to participate in eu space programmes post—brexit. the government are not right on very much at the moment, but on this they are correct about the potential impacts to uk space businesses. this is of vital importance to airbus in stevenage and thales in cambridge in my constituency. indeed, the next phase of the copernicus programme could be worth gbp 700 million to uk industry. this does rather underline how working out our future relationship before leaving the european union really matters. post—brexit, the government won’t have any uk meps to amend legislation, to make it better for britain, and the eu will be able to do whatever they like after we’ve left, and we will have no say. in fact, i worry that we face an astronomically bad deal.
